[[toc|flat]]
=Elections - Meadows= 
**Obama is still ahead, the debates didn’t do anything swing state wise**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Allen 10/24** (Mike Allen, Chief White House Correspondent, October 24th, 2012, Obama still has map, math edge, http://www.politico.com/playbook/1012/playbook9305.html?hp=l6)</span>
MORNING MINDMELD: As an antidote to the (perhaps) irrational Republican exuberance that
AND
car, the cool plane. We now resume our regularly scheduled Playbook.

**Too much new spending would upset independents in swing states**
**Walter and Gould 2011** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Kathleen and Martin, Newsmax writers, July 12, 2011, http://www.newsmax.com/Headline/Gillespie-Obama-economy-leadership/2011/07/12/id/403350</span>
Independents are very concerned about government spending, Gillespie said. “They are not
AND
for beneficiaries unless you make reforms. They understood it at that point.”¶

**Swing states key to the election**
**Cooper 5/5**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Michael, 5/5/12, “9 Swing States, Critical to Presidential Race, Are Mixed Lot”, The New York Times, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/06/us/politics/9-swing-states-key-to-election-are-mixed-lot.html?pagewanted=all]]) RS</span>
Since the housing bubble burst, Nevada has been plagued with record foreclosures,
AND
Democrats than Republicans in 2008, now has only 35,000 more.

**Romney win causes Iran strikes—causes escalating conflict**
**Hussain 9-12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Murtaza Hussain, Toronto-based writer and analyst focused on issues related to Middle Eastern politics, “Why war with Iran would spell disaster,” Al-Jazeera, 9/12/2012, http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/opinion/2012/09/201291194236970294.html</span>
Leading members of the House and Congress from both parties as well as the closest
AND
already begun to tout the inevitability of this action in a Romney presidency.

**A strike on Iran would cause a multitude of conflicts**
**Chossudovsky, ‘6**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Michel Chossudovsky is an award-winning author, Professor of Economics, Founder and Director of the Centre for Research on Globalization (CRG) “The Next Phase of the Middle East War” http://www.globalresearch.ca/the-next-phase-of-the-middle-east-war)</span>
The Bush Administration has embarked upon a military adventure which threatens the future of humanity
AND
basin, eventually leading to the destabilization and conquest of the Russian Federation.

=Elections - Whitman= 
**Obama’s ahead, but the race is close and tiny shifts can change the election**
**Silver 11/1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nate, November 1, 2012, 10:16 AM FiveThirtyEight [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/11/01/oct-31-obamas-electoral-college-firewall-holding-in-polls/]] )</span>
None of this ought to have been surprising, exactly, if you have been
AND
are plenty of things that could go wrong, and sometimes they will.

**The rest of the shell was the same as that of Meadows.**

=Food Prices= 
**Food prices are high now and set to rise**
**Godoy 10/2**/12 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Maria is a columnist for NPR. “Can Riots be predicted? Experts watch food prices” http://www.npr.org/blogs/thesalt/2012/09/20/161501075/high-food-prices-forcast-more-global-riots-ahead-researchers-say)</span>
Wheat is now at $9 per bushel – higher than the high of $
AND
and the conversion of corn to ethanol. (More on that later.)

**Plan requires investment which lowers food prices**
**PECC 4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“The Role of Transportation Infrastructure in a Seamless Food System,” Pacific Food System Outlook 2004-2005, http://www.pecc.org/resources/doc_view/638-pacific-food-system-outlook-the-role-of-transportation-infrastructure-in-a-seamless-food-system MGE)</span>
From a local perspective, building or enhancing physical infrastructure acts like the removal of
AND
as improved coordination, performance and scheduling of transportation services to avoid bottlenecks.

**High food prices keep the Ukrainian economy strong**
**Hugh 2008**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Edward, economist, “Ukraine Inflation April 2008,” Ukraine Economy Watch, May 12, http://ukraineeconomy.blogspot.com/2008/05/ukraine-inflation-april-2008.html)</span>
In the short term the agricultural situation may be about to improve, since economic
AND
disappointing in January as it reported a rather moderate 14% yoy increase.

**Ukrainian economic strength is key to prevent nationalism and collapse—the impact is U.S. – Russian nuclear war**
**Romanenko** 12-1**-2008**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Yuriy, Ukranian political scientist, “Ukraine is heading for a civil war,” December 1, http://www.warandpeace.ru/en/article/view/30081/)</span>
Economic crisis will cause that new forces with leftist and nationalist orientation enter the scene
AND
of an attack arise, Ukraine may blackmail Russia as well as Europe.

=Fiscal Cliff - S&B= 
**Insider information says a compromise on the fiscal cliff will happen**
**Anderson 11-29**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Eric Anderson is a columnist for timesunion, His interview was with a man named Johnson who has been appearing consistently and giving excellent economic advice on the fiscal cliff, “Johnson: We’ll avoid fiscal cliff” http://www.timesunion.com/business/article/Johnson-We-ll-avoid-fiscal-cliff-4077073.php)</span>
As a result, he said, he expects the economy to continue expanding in
AND
audience he had said that would happen during his Chamber forecast last year.

**2 Links:**
**1. Transportation spending will be confronted by Republicans, causes backlash against spending that halts further cooperation**
**Johnson, 2012**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Fawn, correspondent for National Journal, covering a range of issues including immigration, transportation and education, “Conservatives: Senate Bill Is 'Crap Sandwich'” March 19, 2012, http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/03/conservatives-senate-bill-is-c.php#173458)</span>
It took a lot of whining, but the Senate finally passed its two-
AND
and how Congress acted in previous years using earmarks and other special favors.

**2. Aff crowds out progress on solution; because negotiations are time consuming, the time to act on fiscal cliff is now**
R. Bruce **Josten 9/12**, (Director of U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 09/12/12 , “On fiscal cliff, the time to act is now” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/249075-on-fiscal-cliff-the-time-to-act-is-now)
There is no more urgent priority facing this Congress than preventing the U.S
AND
a long term plan to address America’s excessive spending, particularly entitlement spending.

**Fiscal Cliff cuts defense spending and foreign aid**
David W. **Barno et.al 11** (Lieutenant General, Usa (Ret.), Nora Bensahel is the Deputy Director of Studies and a Senior Follow at the Center for a New American Security and Travis Sharp, is the Bacevich Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. “Responsible Defense in an Age of Austerity” October 2011, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_HardChoices_BarnoBensahelSharp_0.pdf)
Based on extensive analysis and interviews with leading defense officials, we judge that the
AND
the American people and the global priorities they value remain safe and secure.

**Decrease in foreign aid to Afghanistan would cause instability in the region**
**Aikins, 10/17**/12
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Writer, photographer, and international freelance journalist. “Afghanistan's Fiscal Cliff” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/10/17/afghanistan_s_fiscal_cliff)</span>
KABUL — Afghanistan is awash in foreign aid. In 11 years of war,
AND
little serious analysis about the way its spending is interlinked with Afghan politics.

**Afghan stability key to deterring Central Asian conflict**
**Weinbaum** <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">6</span> <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">[Marvin, June, Scholar-in-Residence, Middle East Institute http://www.usip.org/resources/afghanistan-and-its-neighbors-ever-dangerous-neighborhood] </span>
The study posits that over much of the last four years Afghanistan's neighbors have assessed
AND
government have in some cases helped to increase suspicions and tensions with neighbors.

=Fiscal Cliff - ASU= 
==**New Uniqueness Cards**== 
**Major components of fiscal cliff only pushed off till February**
Susan **Davis 1/3** (USA TODAY, “4 lessons for Round 2 of 'fiscal cliff' fight” http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2013/01/02/four-lessons-for-round-two-of-fiscal-cliff-fight/1805547/ , KMH)
This fiscal cliff: averted. Next fiscal cliff: ahead. Partisan divisions and
AND
laws that nearly forced the nation over the cliff in the first place.

**Sequestration will probably be avoided barring setbacks**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marjorie</span> **Censer 1/6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Washington Post, “Contractors quietly optimistic following sequestration delay” http://articles.washingtonpost.com/2013-01-06/business/36207925_1_sequestration-layoff-notices-contractors)</span>
While the two-month delay in planned federal spending cuts that Congress approved last
AND
to struggle with the uncertainty surrounding the government’s long-term budget plans.
==Quarters Impact Scenario== 
**Sequestration would destroy our nuclear triad’s capabilities—specifically the bomber**
**Maginnis 11**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert Maginnis is a retired Army lieutenant colonel, and a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television, ‘CATASTROPHIC’ DEFENSE CUTS SEEN AS TIPPING POINT OF U.S. MILITARY SUPREMACY, 10/20/11, Human Events)</span>
Our nuclear deterrence could diminish. Cuts would undermine our nuclear triad—our
AND
fact create a tipping point for America as the world’s leading military power.

**Nuclear deterrence stops global nuclear war**
**Caves 10**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (John P, Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National Defense University, January, Strategic Forum, No. 252, “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,”)</span>
Perceptions of a compromised U.S. nuclear deterrent as described above would have
AND
scale far more catastrophic than what nuclear-armed terrorists alone could inflict.