[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**Aff gets RVIs**


**Also, if the aff must defend all due process rights then each one becomes a NIB.**
**I advocate the extension of the core due process rights that the government grants to its citizens accused of terrorism**.
**Stanley**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[tim, The Requirement Of Due Process] member of the American Association for Justice, American Bar Association, American Civil Liberties Union] http://law.justia.com/constitution/us/amendment-14/36-procedural-due-process-civil.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Although due proces...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> represented by counsel.</span>
**I also defend habeas corpus, and the right to not to be tortured.**

**Merriam-Webster defines "ought" as "used to express obligation."**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">V- Appropriate Government Obligations</span></span>

**Ought is functional**

**Even if “ought” implies a moral obligation, prefer functional obligations because we can’t justify a moral statement without an appeal to an “is” premise.**
**MacIntyre**
[Alasdair MacIntyre, 1981. Senior Research Fellow at the Centre for Contemporary Aristotelian Studies in Ethics and Politics and Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame “After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory.” __University of Notre Dame Press__.
For although each ... an ‘ought’ conclusion.
**MacIntyre continues:**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">For what in ... <span class="DebateUnderline">expected to serve.</span></span></span>

**And beliefs like morality must be based in the real world or they lose their meaning.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William</span> **James**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1904 former professor of philosophy at Harvard University], What Pragmatism Means.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In an article ... to professional philosophers.</span>

**VC - consistency with the function of the United States.**

**Function is determined by reason for continued existence. The preamble frames what the reason for existence of the United States is.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[http://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/preamble]</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">We the people ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> States of America.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**And, the constitution frames the function of our government**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Wilkinson**</span>
[OUR STRUCTURAL CONSTITUTION J. Harvie Wilkinson III, Circuit Judge, United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
What does it ... and little more.

**The function of the state is to create a legislative system to preserve the wellbeing of its citizens.**
**Locke** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Locke, 1690. “Second Treatise on Government CHAP. IX., Of the Ends of Political Society and Government”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sec. 131. But though</span> <span class="DebateUnderline">men</span>, ...<span class="DebateUnderline"> of the people</span>.

**Contention 1) Terrorism**

**A) The NDAA recently passed, which requires accused terrorists be held in military detention.**
**Greenwald** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Glen http://www.salon.com/2011/12/16/three_myths_about_the_detention_bill/singleton/ Three myths about the detention bill, </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">a former Constitutional and civil rights litigator 2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The only provision ... of military detention.</span>

**The goal of this detention is to prevent them from participating in hostilities.**
**U.S. Government Printing Office** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-107publ40/html/PLAW-107publ40.htm, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2012)</span>
At the heart ... in civilian court.

**B) Preemptive action against terrorists is epistemologically based on uncertainty.**
<span style="color: black;">**Massumi**</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(POTENTIAL POLITICS AND THE PRIMACY OF PREEMPTION</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">2007 Brian Massumi http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2massumi.html</span>
__Preemption[‘s]__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">shares many ... of indeterminate potentiality</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">.</span>

**Preemptive action makes the impacts it seeks to avoid inevitable.**
<span style="color: black;">**Massumi 2**</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(POTENTIAL POLITICS AND THE PRIMACY OF PREEMPTION</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">2007 Brian Massumi http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2massumi.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fear is always ... used to it.</span>

**Also, governmental action ought not be based on preemptive logic.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Rand**</span> (http://aynrandlexicon.com/lexicon/government.html)
__The only proper ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> bigger than his.</span>

**C)**
**And, restrictions given to accused terrorist tried in the status quo mean lawyers can’t be effective in defending their clients in court.**
**Wang**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Tova Andrea Wang, Senior Program Officer and Democracy Fellow at The Century Foundation. "The Military Tribunals Debate." The Century Foundation. 2003.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 4pt;">Critics contend that requiring ...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> an effective defense.</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">D) The impact is terrorismwhich leads to a WMD attack.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">**The West Australian**</span>; <span style="font-size: 8pt;">10/22</span>/<span style="text-decoration: none;">**08**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; (Quals: edited daily newspaper published in Perth, Western Australia, and is owned by ASX-listed West Australian Newspapers Holdings Ltd); Grim report warns of a global war; Intelligence services warn Obama he could have less global power to face growing threats from rogue nuclear states”;</span> LexisNexus, cites study done by C. Thomas Fingar, Chairman of the national intelligence council of the U.S.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="CardsFont12pt">__The use of nuclear ...__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">"beyond-the-horizon" view.</span></span></span>

**And an additional link:**
**U.S. violations of human rights negate cooperation efforts.**
**Walsh and Piazza**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="CardsChar">[James I. Walsh and James A. Piazza, associate professors of political science at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. 2010. “Why Respecting Physical Integrity Rights Reduces Terrorism”. __Comparative Political Studies.__ http://www.politicalscience.uncc.edu/jwalsh/cps3.pdf]</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally</span>, <span class="DebateUnderline">governments that ... U.S.</span> intelligence agencies (Walsh, 2010, p. 129). </span></span>

<span style="color: black;">**Multilateral cooperation is key to solving terrorism – terrorists operate through exploitation of national differences and weak links.** </span>
**Cordesman**
[Anthony Cordesman, January 2006. Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies “The Lessons of International Cooperation in Counterterrorism” Center for Strategic and International Studies http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060118_lessonsintctcoop.pdf]
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first lesson ...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> threat to others.</span></span></span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Contention two is the constitution.**</span>
**The Constitution prevents the misuse of governmental power**
**Wilkinson 2**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But one should .... of all citizens</span>.

**The constitution semantically distinguishes between persons and citizens throughout the document, proving due process rights must be extended to all people.**
<span class="CardsChar">John</span> **Yoo**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Law Professor at UC Berkeley “Constitutional Rights for Non-Citizens?.” http://ricochet.com/main-feed/Constitutional-Rights-for-Non-Citizens/ . June 8, 2010.]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="CardsChar">"Ricochet member Flint ... process of law."</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**Contention three is rights abuses.**

**The resolution denies rights based on citizenship but it is impossible to identify relevant differences between persons.**
**Arneson**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard J. WHAT, IF ANYTHING, RENDERS ALL HUMANS MORALLY EQUAL?1 [published in Peter Singer and His Critics, ed. by Dale Jamieson (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999)] February, 1998)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Another possible avenue ... their own right. </span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Using arbitrary differences to justify rights violations justifies domination by the state.**</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Maynor**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Cecile Laborde and John “The Republican Contribution,” Published in //Republicanism and Political Theory//, New York: Blackwell, 2008)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, these republican ... of the citizenry).</span>

==Negative== 
See Lexington JC
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**I value morality**. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**The term ought is grounded in the notion of the proper function of a being in relation to the conception of good or bad**. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">Elizabeth</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> **Anscombe (**</span>G.E.M. Anscombe “Modern Moral Philosophy” The Journal of the Royal Institute of Philosophy, Vol. XXXIII No. 124, January 1958)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">The terms<span style="font-size: 12px;"> “</span>should” ...<span style="font-size: 12px;"> __required by law__</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**The function of the agent defines its end state. We can describe particular ends in reference to the reasons why they are important. More specific ends are always chosen for a larger purpose.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Boyle and Lavin 1**</span> (Goodness and Desire* Matthew Boyle and Douglas Lavin Harvard University)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">We can make ...<span style="font-size: 12px;"> __service of it.__</span>23 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**The ultimate end under which all other ends are contained is the form of the agent, which serves as the standard by which their actions are evaluated.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Boyle and Lavin 2** </span>(Goodness and Desire* Matthew Boyle and Douglas Lavin Harvard University)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">We will consider ... already been said.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**But morality is culturally relative. Normative statements are inherently unjustified, falling back upon arbitrary cultural interpretations. The only way to judge something is through what their form is.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">Alasdair<span style="font-size: 12px;">**MacIntyre**//,// </span>After Virtue, 1981. Page 20.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">__An agent can ...__ <span style="font-size: 8px;"> to confer upon [it].</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**An agent pursues the ends that are inherent in his form. He can still deem goods important without acting towards them.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**MacIntyre 2 (**</span>Alasdair, After Virtue, 1981. Page 20.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">One way in ... point of view,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**The ends, rooted in the conception of the good, can be determined by that individual’s practice.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Lynch 1**</span> (VIRTUE ETHICS, PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, AND TELOS Rev. Dr. Thomas Dexter Lynch Department of Public Administration Louisiana State University)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">For MacIntyre (1984: p. 150),<span style="font-size: 12px;">__every...__ </span>of virtue ethics.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**A practice is anything that has internal goods:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Lynch 2**</span> (VIRTUE ETHICS, PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, AND TELOS Rev. Dr. Thomas Dexter Lynch Department of Public Administration Louisiana State University)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">By </span>__a practice__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> ... in the game.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Government positions are practices**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Serving in the government uniquely deals with internal goods.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Lynch 3**</span> (VIRTUE ETHICS, PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, AND TELOS Rev. Dr. Thomas Dexter Lynch Department of Public Administration Louisiana State University)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">__Public administration ...__ __into a civilization__</span><span style="font-size: 11.5px;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Next, the virtues are what allow individuals to pursue their end.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Virtues are definitionally key to the achievement of a practice’s end.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Lynch 4**</span> (VIRTUE ETHICS, PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, AND TELOS Rev. Dr. Thomas Dexter Lynch Department of Public Administration Louisiana State University)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">A practice involves ... any such goods” (MacIntyre, 1984: p. 191).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**The virtues are what give us the ability to pursue moral good.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**MacIntyre 3**</span> (Alasdair MacIntyre, //After Virtue//, 3d ed. (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 2007), 219)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">__The virtues__ </span>therefore ... a third stage.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**And the only way to have a motivational morality is through virtue ethics because we think of ourselves as virtuous people. If we did not aspire to be virtuous, we would have no reason to follow moral demands.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Kawall** (</span>In Defense of the Primacy of Virtues,” Jason Kawall. Journal of Ethics and Social Philosophy. Vol 3, Num. 2. 2009)</span>
<span style="color: #a6a6a6; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6px;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">__One__</span> of the ... <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">__her moral environment**.**__</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Therefore, the burden of the aff is to prove that extending universal healthcare is consistent with the virtues of a public administrator.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**I advocate for a** </span>**non-profit, independent agency mandated by the federal government and funded and managed by its policyholders.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12px;">**MOHIT 1**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8px;">[Behzad Mohit, Behzad Mohit is a physician and a graduate of the State University of New York medical school with eleven years of postgraduate studies in prestigious universities and research institutes including Mallory Institute of Pathology (Harvard, Boston University, Tufts), Brandeis Graduate Department of Biochemistry, the National Institutes of Health and the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco. His original research at Brandeis, National Institutes of Health and the UCSF biochemistry department has been published in prestigious journals of science, proceedings at the National Academy of Sciences, British Journal of Bacteriology and others. Numerous medical scientists have quoted his work in immunology and bacteriology and other fields. He is a board certified clinical pathologist and board eligible dermatologist. He has worked in private practice for twenty years, and worked pro bono at the Blackmans Free Clinic of San Francisco. He had an honorable discharge from the U.S. Public Health Service with a rank of Commander in the U.S. Navy, Universal Health Care System for the United States of America: “A Disruptive Innovation” (2009-04-01)] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6px;">Who pays the <span style="font-size: 12px;">__... and salary caps.__</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**This would help the 45,000 people who die each year in the U.S. due to lack of basic health care services.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Reuters** [</span>Cites the Harvard Medical School Study released 2009] http://www.reuters.com/article/2009/09/17/us-usa-healthcare-deaths-idUSTRE58G6W520090917</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">Nearly<span style="font-size: 12px;">__45,000 people ...__ </span> reducing healthcare costs.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12px;">**The plan prohibits pharmaceutical companies from lobbying.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12px;">**MOHIT**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10px;">[Behzad Mohit “A Disruptive Innovation” (2009-04-01)] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6px;">All upper management ... <span style="font-size: 12px;"> __awarding of contracts.__</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**I contend that guaranteeing healthcare in order to help others is consistent with virtues a public administrator ought to have.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**A virtue of public administrator is idealism, the foundation of public health**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Cloutier 1**</span> (Living Virtues of Public Health Tiffany Cloutier, Robert Hamilton, Kristi Fossum Jones, Edward Mberu Kamau, Vikram Khanna, Tara McCoy, Emily Ann Miller, Anila Naz, Holly Patrick, Jillian Penrod, Richard F. Southby, Elizabeth McGean Weist, Yan Xu, and Harvey V. Fineberg June 2012)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">__Idealism is__</span>in ...<span style="font-size: 12px;"> __a healthier place.__</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**A second virtue provided by universal healthcare is altruism.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Cloutier 2**</span> (Living Virtues of Public Health Tiffany Cloutier, Robert Hamilton, Kristi Fossum Jones, Edward Mberu Kamau, Vikram Khanna, Tara McCoy, Emily Ann Miller, Anila Naz, Holly Patrick, Jillian Penrod, Richard F. Southby, Elizabeth McGean Weist, Yan Xu, and Harvey V. Fineberg June 2012)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">Public health often ... <span style="font-size: 12px;">__of public health__.</span></span>

==Negative== 
See Lex JC
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Gettier clarifies the concept of justification:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;"> (Is Justified True Belief Knowledge? Edmund L. Gettier, Analysis 23 ( 1963): 121-123)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;">I shall begin ... knows that proposition.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Thus, I value morality.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**All ethical discussion starts with the single principle that “agents ought to do good things”. This is self-evident. Once we recognize something as good, we recognize a justification for it it. This is a self-imposed moral truth once we recognize the good.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Aquinas** </span>(St. Thomas, Summa Theologiae I-II question 94, article 2)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">Now as "being" ...<span style="font-size: 12px;"> __to be avoided."__</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Moreover, normative claims made by moral theories are culturally relative and thus are inherently unjustified as they fall back upon arbitrary interpretations.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">Alasdair<span style="font-size: 12px;">**MacIntyre 1**//,// </span>After Virtue, 1981. Page 20.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">__An agent can ...__<span style="font-size: 8px;">confer upon [it].</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**An agent pursues the ends that are inherent in his nature. He can deem goods important without acting towards them.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**MacIntyre 2 (**</span>Alasdair, After Virtue, 1981. Page 20.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">One way in ... C. Van Fraasen 1973.)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Goods, rooted in the conception of an individual’s ends, can be determined by an individual’s practice.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Lynch 1**</span> (VIRTUE ETHICS, PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, AND TELOS Rev. Dr. Thomas Dexter Lynch Department of Public Administration Louisiana State University)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="font-size: 8px;">For MacIntyre (1984: p. 150),</span><span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">__...__</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> of virtue ethics.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**The virtues are what allow individuals to pursue their ends as they are definitionally key to the achievement of a practice’s end.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Lynch 4**</span> (VIRTUE ETHICS, PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, AND TELOS Rev. Dr. Thomas Dexter Lynch Department of Public Administration Louisiana State University)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">A practice... any such goods” (MacIntyre, 1984: p. 191).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Additionally, one needs to appeal to the character of an agent in order to determine the moral status of an action.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Kawall 1** (</span>In Defense of the Primacy of Virtues,” Jason Kawall. Journal of Ethics and Social Philosophy. Vol 3, Num. 2. 2009)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;">...motives and<span style="font-size: 12px;"> __intentions.__</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**And the virtues are what give us the ability to pursue moral good.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**MacIntyre 3**</span> (Alasdair MacIntyre, //After Virtue//, 3d ed. (Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 2007), 219)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">__The virtues__</span>therefore...a third stage.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Also, the only way to have a motivational morality is through virtue ethics because we think of ourselves as virtuous people. If we did not aspire to be virtuous, we would have no reason to follow moral demands.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Kawall 2** (</span>In Defense of the Primacy of Virtues,” Jason Kawall. Journal of Ethics and Social Philosophy. Vol 3, Num. 2. 2009)</span>
<span style="color: #959595; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6px;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">__One__</span> of the <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">__major problem__</span>s ...<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">__her moral environment**.**__</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Therefore, the aff standard is consistency with the virtues of a public administrator.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Contention One)** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Human rights abuses are inherently bad as they violate the intrinsic value of the person which serves as the basis for every moral theory.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Malese** </span>(Michelle, Human Rights Violations, 2003 Beyond Intractability)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;">There is now ... rights apply universally.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Intervention is proportional**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">**ICISS 1**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10px;">[International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, “The Responsibility to Protect, ICISS, 2001]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">__The scale, duration ...__<span style="font-size: 6px;"> are clear enough.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Intervention only occurs if success if feasible**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">**ICISS 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10px;">[International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, “The Responsibility to Protect, ICISS, 2001]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6px;">Military <span style="font-size: 12px;">__action can ...__</span>s no longer justified.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Compassion is a virtue of public administration.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Alexander** </span>(John M., Capabilities and Social Justice: <span style="color: #323333;">The Political Philosophy of Amartya Sen and Martha Nussbaum, </span><span style="color: #777777;">Ashgate Publishing, Ltd., 2008)</span>Nussbaum argues that <span style="font-size: 12px;">__political leaders__</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">,</span> lawyers and judges, besides their ...the behaviors of individuals.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Benevolence, defined as the disposition to do good,** <span style="font-size: 9px;">(googledict)</span> **is also a virtue of public administration.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Cooper** </span>(Hierarchy, Virtue, and the Practice of Public Administration: A Perspective for Normative Ethics Terry L. Cooper Public Administration Review , Vol. 47, No. 4 (Jul. - Aug., 1987), pp. 320-328)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;">MacIntyre contributes an ... of public administration. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Thus you affirm.**</span>

==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**I negate.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12px;">**Just because the U.S. shouldn’t take action to stop human rights abuses doesn’t mean that no one will.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12px;">**Orford** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 7px;">(Anne Orford, Professor @ University of Melbourne, 2003, Cambridge University Press, “Reading Humanitarian Intervention: Human Rights and the Use of Force in International Law”, <span style="color: #011a99;">[[http://bilder.buecher.de/zusatz/21/21785/21785632_lese_1.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6px;">Her question is ...<span style="font-size: 12px;"> __international__ </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">economic</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> __institutions.__</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**I value morality.** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Morality requires states to value sovereignty, thus my value criterion is unequivocal respect for state sovereignty.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**All rights claims are based in the community because all human rights claims are grounded in social interaction. Humans are not capable of moral reasoning outside of the community.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Etzioni**</span> (The Responsive Community: A Communitarian Perspective," Presidential Address, American Sociological Association, August 20, 1995. American Sociological Review, (February 1996), pp. 1-11.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;">The libertarian perspective, ...enhanced or diminished.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**The moral process that the community allows, reveals itself in state sovereignty.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Roth** </span>[Associate Professor of Political Science and Law, Wayne State University. J.D., Harvard Law School, 1987; LL.M., Columbia Law School, 1992; Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 1996.] COMMENTARY: THE ENDURING SIGNIFICANCE OF STATE SOVEREIGNTY. Florida Law Review December, 2004. 56 Fla. L. Rev. 1017 Lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">__Sovereignty takes ...__</span> collective right itself.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Thus I contend that any intervention in another states internal affairs constitutes a violation of that nations sovereignty.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">**Adjei** </span>(The Legality of Humanitarian Intervention Eric Adjei University of Georgia School of Law)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"><span style="font-size: 9px;">Perhaps</span>, __the__ <span style="font-size: 9px;">singular...</span>__equality of all states__.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Humanitarian intervention gives far too much of an incentive for the intervening nation to restructure the other’s political system in a way most beneficial to them, not for the other country.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Orford 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7px;">(Anne Orford, Professor @ University of Melbourne, 2003, Cambridge University Press, “Reading Humanitarian Intervention: Human Rights and the Use of Force in International Law”, http://bilder.buecher.de/zusatz/21/21785/21785632_lese_1.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"><span style="font-size: 9px;">Indeed</span> __intervention in ... of human rights.__</span>