[[toc]]
Email samuelheller96@gmail.com for cite requests

=Affirmative= 

==Emory== 
===Plan=== 
The United States federal government should employ orbital capsules for Small Unit Space Transportation and Insertion capabilities, incorporating the Scorpius launch system.
===1AC – solvency=== 
Contention 1: solvency

SUSTAIN is feasible
Lowther 12 Scott, Former Aerospace Engineer, currently researches aircraft and spacecraft design (“Benghazi as an Argument for SUSTAIN”, 10/26/12, The Unwanted Blog, http://up-ship.com/blog/?p=17152)
As it turns out, the Obama Administration knew that the Benghazi consulate was under terrorist attack pretty much as it happened, and watched in real time via overhead drone and did approximately nothing… apart from telling CIA operators who were right there to “stand down.” This is of course a Very Bad Thing, but one can legitimately ask “well, what could they have done?” There are of course answers… since a drone was overhead watching the attack, it’s not unreasonable to wonder if there was an *armed* drone overhead. A Maverick or a Hellfire missile launched from a drone would have made a mess of the attackers. A few F-18′s from an aircraft carrier would have made even more of a mess of them, though it might’ve taken a few hours to get on site (certainly not seven, of course). And an AC-130 or a few B-52s would have done yet more to bring the assault to a close. American troops did arrive at the Benghazi airport something like four hours after the attack began, but got held up by – essentially – bureaucracy on the ground.¶ Still, any such assault is best countered not with bombs and missiles from the air, but bullets and grenades from ground level. And that means troops, well armed and fully equipped. Since the Administration refused to fully support the defense of the consulate before the attack, they were quite unprepared, and backup was quite some time away via transport helicopters.¶ Which brings me to Hot Eagle.¶ A decade ago, there was a low-level, minimally funded series of minor studies at the DoD and among contractors for a Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) concept. In short, SUSTAIN called for shooting a platoon of Marines or Special Forces hundreds or thousands of miles through space with rocket propelled vehicles.¶ The idea was not new… it stretches back to at least the 1950′s, when the US Army examined the use of Redstone rockets to launch “pods” with soldiers. And of course there was the Douglas Astronautics ICARUS/Ithacus, a modification of the ROMBUS SSTO vehicle meant to launch 1200 fully armed Marines halfway across the planet (both of these were described much more fully HERE). Every few years the idea pops up again, gets studied, someone points out how fabulously expensive it would be, and the idea fades.¶ One of the main complaints is that for all the massive development effort and cost, what you’d likely wind up with is something with the carrying capacity of a current transport helicopter, something like a Black Hawk or, just maybe, a Chinook. And extracting the vehicle is another problem, as with most designs it would expend the bulk of its rocket fuel just landing. So, you’d take the most expensive transport aircraft ever developed, use it to deliver a very small number of troops, and then very likely simply throw the vehicle away… stranding the troops where you dropped ‘em. It becomes easier to see why the concept never seems to get anywhere.¶ Anyway, during the SUSTAIN efforts, the vehicle itself was studied under the codename “Hot Eagle.” While a few fairly crude preliminary concepts were shown publicly, if detailed design work was done it hasn’t come to light. Most of the designs were necessarily simple… little more than cylindrical cargo sections with rounded nosecones, propellant tanks, rockets and fins. Landing would generally be by rocket, either in a horizontal attitude like a Harrier, or vertically like the Delta Clipper.¶ Some designs called for the vehicle to be able to partially self-extract… it would launch vertically, fly horizontally, catch a cable trailing behind a cargo plane such as a C-17, and would then be towed like a kit to a safe landing and recovery area. But this would be a challenge, especially if the vehicle had used up all its propellant or been poked full of bullet holes.¶ So, back to Benghazi.¶ The idea occurs that a Hot Eagle or two could be carried by aircraft carriers, or even by cruisers or destroyers. Had there been such in the Med – and I’m pretty sure there were – a Hot Eagle or two could have been launched from within a few thousand miles of the consulate, and would get to the vicinity of the consulate in just a few minutes. Drones in the air would provide information on the state of affairs… whether the Hot Eagles could, say, land in the consulate courtyard, or whether the troops would do better to bail out 10,000 feet up and parachute in, either letting the Hot Eagle plummet into the Med, or land (autonomously, or under remote control) somewhere else. The troops would then support the consulate against the attackers.¶ While that is going on, larger numbers of troops would fly in via more conventional means. In this case there’d be no need for the Hot Eagle to extract the troops… within a few hours helicopters would be on scene ready to help.¶ There is no serious likelihood that development of a system like this would ever be anything but “US FedGuv Expensive.” But once developed, there are reasons to assume why the individual vehicles themselves might not be *so* expensive that throwing them away would be insane. While necessarily hypersonic, they are not *orbital,* and thus aerothermal heating becomes a much easier issue to deal with. Flight duration would be mere minutes; the vehicle need not even be pressurized, if the troops have basic pressure suits. Construction would include a lot of cheap aluminum and less cheap but still unspectacular carbon fiber. The rockets would most likely burn jet fuel and liquid oxygen, making them compact, well understood and rugged… copies of any of a number of Russian engines would work, though I’m sure Xcor would be able to come up with something even better. Inflatable structures, deployable Rogallo-type wings and other cost-and-complexity-saving measures could make the craft eminently expendable.¶


Multiple factors hinder the US’s ability to respond quickly to global events in the status quo.
Damphousse, ‘8 – Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO. [Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability. Includes input from the NSSO, air force, special forces, and marine corps. http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]
3.1 SOCOM Capability Gaps 3.1.1 Functional Concept Component The primary functional component deficiency that this CONOPS addresses is a projection that given current trends, USSOCOM will lack an Expeditionary Attribute of tempo dominance in the future. In coming years there will exist a gap between SOF's real-time, speed-of-light awareness of details regarding unfolding global contingencies and their actual ability to respond relevantly and effectively to said contingencies. From the standpoints of relative tempo, operational security (OPSEC), and geographic proximity, SOF teams will become less rapidly deployable, employable, and sustainable throughout the global battlespace relative to the tempo of adversary actions. Anti-access and area-denial environments combined with longer range and more lethal adversary weapons will compound this relatively slowed responsiveness. SOCOM elements will not be capable of rapid deployment and immediate employment, or be capable of seamlessly handing off to conventional forces for sustained operations as a crisis or conflict develops. 3.1.2 Operational Mission and Function Deficiencies While the speed of terrestrial and national security space Intelligence Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities is keeping pace with the accelerated tempo of localized events in the modem world, the ability of SOF teams to physically respond (troops on the ground) at any global locality is not. If this deficiency is not resolved, SOCOM will become increasingly less capable of appearing on the scene to respond relevantly and effectively to exploit strategic opportunities or minimize strategic damage at the earliest stages of a contingency. To illustrate the deficiencies, the following functions that are essential for SOF in order that the military objectives of the JFC and/or the NCA are achieved, increasingly cannot be performed without unacceptable limitations. 3.1.2.1 Mobility and Maneuver A deficiency exists with respect to SOCOM's ability to deliver tailored SOF teams to any terrestrial point globally in order to act on current intelligence. Instead, SOF insertion options are limited by speed, range, signature, and vulnerability of evolutionary aerospace, land and undersea insertion technologies, as well as the vulnerability of expeditionary delivery platforms. The highest speed of global SOCOM insertion from CON US is limited to that of jet aircraft arriving within the constraints of in-flight refueling, foreign airspace over-flight restrictions, non permissive air-defense environments, and the possible absence of suitable airfields. It should be noted that airspace sovereignty is commonly accepted as extending to an altitude of 50 miles above the surface of the earth. Similarly, the highest speed of global surface SOP movement is limited to that of ships, boats, assault amphibians, hovercraft, wheeled and tracked land vehicles, and combat swimmers, all significantly slower than terrestrial aviation platforms. Other constraints include underway replenishment, 12-mile littoral coastal sovereignty, emergent antiship threats, and known challenges of overland movement in restrictive or non-peimissive land combat environments. 3.1.2.2 Firepower The weapons that will threaten independently operating SOF in the 21st Century will continue to advance in terms of range, speed, and lethality. The pace of the advancements in adversary tactical, offensive anti-air, land, and surface threat capabilities has been greater than the pace of the U.S.'s capability to counter them with improvements to protection and conventional kinetic weapons technologies alone. Revolutionary weapons capabilities are needed to preserve assault support insertion of SOP as a viable course of action for the JFC.

Frequency and tempo of crises are increasing and speed is becoming more important. SUSTAIN is key.
Williams, ‘7 – Shon P., Major, USAF [“Wild Ride: Launching Troops Through Space for Rapid Precision Global Intervention”. April. Blue Horizons Paper, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]
One could easily argue that the stated USMC space mobility requirement begs the question, “Why do the Marines and the nation need the ability to send troops through space?” The world is changing. Enemies in The Long War on Terror and of the nation’s future are not limited by borders. In his provocative work, The Clash of Civilizations?, Samuel Huntington hypothesized that in the coming years “the dominating source of conflict will be cultural…the principal conflicts of global politics will occur between nations and groups of different civilizations.” 5 He goes on to say that while conflicts between states will still exist “the fault lines between civilizations will be the battle lines of the future.” 6 With the increase in globalization, one cannot necessarily draw these “fault lines” on a map—they defy borders and span the globe. This trend is sure to continue, and, as such, we must be prepared to appear anywhere in the world within seconds, minutes, or a few hours versus many hours, days, or more. Conceivably the around U.S. military will need to respond quickly to multiple locations around the world simultaneously. Forward presence of military units the world may be sufficient in some cases; however, we likely will not have the force size or political will to maintain the level of forward presence required to respond to the emerging set of conflicts. Space has the potential to afford us this global flexibility and responsiveness. United States Special Operations Command expanded upon these thoughts in its 2004 Special Operations Forces Space Enabling Concept (SOFSEC). They foresee that a dangerous, 4 uncertain strategic environment with a dramatically increasing range of threats will continue to pose challenges in the future. The following elements characterize this future strategic environment: “military power will continue to be required to protect…U.S. global interests”; the “battlespace will continue to be global, if not universal”; “the speed and scale of the proliferation of…technology and CBRNE weapons will continue to increase”; 7 “adversaries will have greater access…to sophisticated capabilities”; and “adversaries will continue to adapt as U.S. capabilities evolve.” 8 Tapping into the global reach capabilities that space power offers will allow the US and its Allies to handle the complex contingencies that will continue to litter the international landscape. In light of the changing world situation, the USMC has predicted that in 25 to 30 years they will need to send a “squad-sized unit of Marines any place on the Earth in less than two hours time.” 9 As stated in their 2002 Universal Needs Statement (UNS) for the Small Unit Space Transport and INsertion (SUSTAIN) capability, “the Marine Corps needs a capability to transport small, mission-tailored units through space from any point on the globe to a contingency at any other point on the globe within minutes.” 10 The Marines like to refer to the concept as getting 13 thinking “brains” on the ground at the earliest stage of a crisis rather than 13 sets of “boots.” Based on the UNS, the SUSTAIN capability should have the following characteristics: negligible sensor cross-section, kinetic air defense survivability, flexibility to enter and sustain low earth orbit, transport of up to 13 combat-equipped personnel (not including the transport crew), flexible launch on demand, combined arms weapons suite for self-defense and fire support, multiple personnel insertion options (high altitude, low altitude, ground), unrefueled transport operation for entire mission cycle, vertical and/or short takeoff and landing (V/STOL), avoidance of foreign airspace overflight restrictions, and post-mission extraction 5 ability. Appendix A contains the full text of the UNS as well as the unpublished draft Initial Capabilities Document (ICD). Marine Colonel J. R. Wassink, head of the Information Operations and Space Integration Branch at the USMC Pentagon headquarters offered anecdotal evidence as to the need for faster response times. Regarding the 04 November 1979 capture of 66 American civilians at the US diplomatic mission in Tehran, Col Wassink pondered, “What could have been done if we could have rapidly reinforced the embassy in Iran? Could we have avoided the [14-month] hostage crisis?” He went on to say that time, distance, and access issues have caused the Marines to reconsider their options for future expeditionary warfare: “We looked at space because you don’t have to worry about overflight. [Also], a prepositioned MEU with a V-22 or C-17 still takes many times longer than two hours to get there.” 11 Similar to the USMC need, Special Operations Forces (SOF) require “responsive unmanned lift for systems and high loiter vehicles that support persistent and pervasive operational awareness…launched on short notice into space.” 12 Although the stated SOF requirement only asks for responsive, flexible, unmanned access to space, many of the requisite technologies are the same. Certainly with SOF’s rare ability to exploit new technology, USSOCOM would also jump at the opportunity to transport a SOF team anywhere in less than two hours. From an Air Force perspective, the preponderance of effort related to flexible, rapid space access comes from the Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) program. According to the Mission Needs Statement (MNS), one of the four ORS required key capabilities is “recoverable, rapid-response transport to, through, and from space,” and any ORS systems must be responsive, maneuverable, operable, economical, survivable, interoperable, and flexible. 13 The SUSTAIN 6 concept falls well within this mission space. Additionally, Maj Bob Lancaster, an Air Force Security Forces officer who worked the Security Forces Transformation project, immediately recognized Air Force applications that stem from the USMC concept. He postulated that “if [the USMC and SOF] mission is base seizure, and they get there in under two hours, the follow-on forces (Security Forces, etc.) will need to get there quickly as well.” 14 Career logistician Maj Andy Hunt of HQ USAF/A9 also acknowledged utility in the concept for Air Force rapid resupply missions stating that “from a logistics standpoint it would be fantastic.” 15 The obvious implication of responsive space launch is the fast, flexible, precise global delivery of “stuff” (i.e., people, equipment, weapons, or other assets). An important side benefit of this precise global delivery is the global range that it affords, thus avoiding much of the costs, force protection, sustainment, and foreign access requirements of forward bases. 16 Furthermore, one can easily envision other benefits of this type of capability: point-to-point high-value cargo delivery, long range strike and precision global strike (PGS), or, if extended to orbital applications, responsive satellite replenishment, satellite repair, or astronaut recovery. Col Wassink would like to see in the DoD an “increased recognition of emerging types of missions (i.e., take PGS a step further to be not just Global Strike but ‘Global Intervention’—expand the mission set to more than just kinetic but to global influence.” 17 The author dubbed this concept “rapid precision global intervention,” or the ability to take the full range of capabilities quickly and accurately anywhere in the world to achieve the desired effects. The reader will see this concept throughout this paper.

SUSTAIN works logistically
Damphousse, ‘8 – Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO. [Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability. Includes input from the NSSO, air force, special forces, and marine corps. http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]
2 4 Support and Sustainment Concepts (DOTMLPF) 
Doctrine. The SUSTAIN capability is necessarily designed around what is known today of basic Warfighter organization at the SOF team. The small unit as defined in SUSTAIN is 12-14 personnel for specific reasons. It is the size of the team element that is basic to USSOCOM. 12-14 combat personnel is approximately the traditional design parameter for tactical assault support platforms, whether they were surface ground, water, transport helicopter, or tilt-rotor aircraft. This unit size has even been employed as the stick parameter used for combat gliders, a platform that was conceptually a functional forerunner of` SUSTAIN. The assumption is that the enduring utility of the squad-team sized unit as the smallest viable combat element will continue to be its capability to conduct limited independent operations, especially within the Special Operations Command (SOCOM) construct. Furthermore, the technology-enabled warfighting capacity of` small units will increase. Organization. A SUSTAIN Family of Assault Support Capabilities (SUSTAIN FASC) is envisioned as a revolutionary follow-on to evolutionary air, land, and sea assault support, even if` only as a complimentary capability. Once SUSTAIN has matured in the SOCOM operating environment, the physical SUSTAIN capability could be fielded and manned in quantities similar to Amphibious Assault Vehicle (AAV) Battalions or Assault Support Squadrons. Logistics, Command and Control (C2) and fire support capabilities variants would be fielded and organized in appropriately complementary numbers. Principles of attachment, cross-attachment, direct support, and general support would apply as they do for other assault support and tire support platforms. SUSTAIN Composite Squadrons are conceivable. Under a Space Force or Space Service the SUSTAIN capability, matured in operations by USSOCOM, could expand to have broad general utility.

Launch systems have already been developed – minimal further investment required
Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ‘9 [John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. “Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”. 7th Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]
This quantity of development funding is almost certainly beyond current US political and economic feasibility. An alternative approach is to exploit that which already exists and which was developed under other funding arrangements. For example, as part of the Responsive Space initiatives, Microcosm developed a conceptual low cost rapidly deployed launch system (Scorpius). Much of the preliminary development cost for this series of vehicles has been spent and hardware has been developed. THE MICROCOSM APPROACH The analysis given above suggests a concept close to the Scorpius launch system studied, partially developed, and demonstrated by Microcosm 5 . The Sprite vehicle payload of 1,060 pounds to LEO and the Exodus vehicle payload of 19,700 pounds to LEO are sufficient to meet the launch requirements of the USAF UAV and the SUSTAIN capsule, respectively, with comfortable margins. The Scorpius system uses a series of seven essentially identical modules – 6 for the first stage in a hexagonal array and one for the second stage nested in the center of the first stage array. All are pressure-fed with ablatively-cooled motors, thus minimizing the propulsion system parts count. Each individual module is extremely simple and easily storable with minimal difficulty. By running the 6 first stage modules in parallel with the second stage located within the hexagonal array, the overall vehicle aspect ratio is low and sensitivity to wind shear is minimal. That allows launch in hurricane level winds. The overall characteristics of the Scorpius launch vehicle family are shown in Table 6. [TABLE 6 REMOVED] Scorpius has a proprietary pressurization system that end-runs many of the disadvantages of conventional pressurization systems and provides roughly a 50 percent mass savings over stored Helium gas and associated tankage for propellant pressurization. This system uses Tridyne (Helium with small, noncombustible quantities of Hydrogen and Oxygen added) 6 . The Tridyne is run over a catalyst bed and the Hydrogen and Oxygen react to form water vapor and release heat. Some of the heat is transferred back to the stored Tridyne tank to prevent cooling by expansion as the gas is depleted. The remainder heats the Helium (and the small amount of water vapor) used for propellant pressurization to a typical temperature of 200 to 250 degrees F. The most important aspect of Scorpius is that all major systems have been tested in flight. A basic module was flown with a partial propellant load (to avoid overflying the range limits) at White Sands some years ago. The flight took place within hours of pulling up to the concrete pad with vehicle, fuel truck, etc. This demonstrated responsiveness. A scalable and inexpensive growth path has been defined. This history of Scorpius launch system development establishes a significant portion of the overall technology. The estimated remaining development cost for the complete Scorpius series up to and including the Exodus launch vehicle is less than $256 million. The unit launch costs for Exodus are estimated to be $26.7 million. Therefore, incorporation of the Scorpius Exodus into SUSTAIN would reduce estimated development costs by about 71 percent relative to the clean sheet approach. The remaining high cost item would be the capsule. Using a cheap, modular, very simple expendable launch vehicle may seem to be a backwards approach, but an expendable Scorpius can be envisioned with unit costs much less than the amortized research and development on a reusable launch vehicle unless many thousands of flights are envisioned per vehicle. SUSTAIN would be anticipated to be a low frequency use system that would not allow for amortizing the development costs incurred in a dedicated reusable launch vehicle. Extensive reusability is not easily attained from current technology, which has demonstrated partial reusability of on the order of only 100 flights. One can argue that airplane-like operations are not going to be attained with reusable space launch vehicles in the near term regardless of what one hears from the alt.space community. This has been extensively discussed in other documents for commercial suborbital sounding rockets and for orbital launchers 7,8,9.



===1AC – terror=== 
Contention 2: terrorism

SUSTAIN is key to fight terrorism– interception of high value targets, reconnaissance, PSYOPS, and foreign stabilization
Damphousse, ‘8 – Paul Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO. [Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability. Includes input from the NSSO, air force, special forces, and marine corps. http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]
United States Special Operations Command's (USSOCOM) is the principle intended user of the SUSTAIN capability. In fact, the inspiration behind the SUSTAIN concept originally emerged from an evident capability gap, namely the limitations of terrestrial air-speeds and the need for overflight rights that have hampered SOCOM missions in the past. Specifically, the inability to rapidly insert specialized teams into Afghanistan from the U.S, within hours of the events of 9/ 11 may have caused strategic opportunities to be missed. In an effort to fill that gap, SUSTAIN is primarily intended to support of SOCOM's core missions related to rapidly intercepting unsecured Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), globally, as well as conducting hot pursuit of high value strategic targets during the hours of vulnerability that they are exposed. The Title l() Service-specific gaps that can be materially fulfilled with a SUSTAIN capability will overwhelmingly be executed through Service Components that contribute to the USSOCOM organization. In consideration of the SUSTAIN-relevant operational needs that have been expressed to date this pertains to Air Force and Marine Corps in dthe form of AFSOC and MARSOC. However, other Service organizations will also benefit from SUSTAIN for the purpose of transporting and inserting small specialized teams globally. Specific beneficiaries include Air Force Security Forces (AFSF), Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR), the Marine Corps Air Naval Gunfire Liaison Company (ANGLICO), and Special Operations Capable Marine Expeditionary Units (MEUSOC). It is envisioned that these non-SOCOM sourced capabilities would be employed in conjunction with or governed entirely by SOCOM as specialized attachments to SOCOM units in support of SOCOM missions. What follows is a discussion of the various SOCOM and Service core missions that SUSTAIN would enable: 4.1 U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) Core Missions USSOQOM plans, directs and executes special operations in conduct of the War on Terrorism in order to disrupt, defeat, and destroy terrorist networks that threaten the United States, its citizens and interests worldwide. USSOCOM organizes, trains, and equips Special Operations Forces provided to Geographic Combatant Commanders, American Ambassadors and their Country Teams. ln order to accomplish its Combatant Command mission, USSOCOM has been assigned the following core tasks: Counterterrorism (CT), Counter-proliferation (CP), of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), Special Reconnaissance (SR), Direct Action (DA), Unconventional Warfare (UW), Information Operation (l 0), Psychological Operations (PSYOP), Foreign internal Defense (FID), and Civil Affairs Operations (CAO). The relation of the SUSTAIN capability to each is detailed below: 4.1.1 Counterterrorism (CT) CT is SOCOM's number one mission. CT produces effective protective measures to reduce the probability of a successful terrorist attack against U.S. interests. This task involves offensive measures taken to prevent, deter, preempt, and respond to terorism. SOF are specifically organized, trained, and equipped to conduct covert, clandestine, or discreet CT mission in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments. These missions include, but are not limited to intelligence operations, attacks against terrorist networks and infrastructures, hostage rescue, recovery of sensitive material from terrorist organizations, and non-kinetic activities aimed at the ideologies or motivations that spawn terrorism. SUSTAIN offers SOP the heretofore nonexistent option for the earliest unopposed insertion of tailored CT teams around the globe. 4.1.2 Counter Proliferation (CP) of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) CP refers to actions taken to support DoD and other govemmental agencies to prevent, limit and/or minimize the development, possession, and employment of weapons of mass destruction, new advanced weapons, and advanced-weapon-capable technologies. The major objectives of DOD policy are to prevent acquisition of WM D and missile capabilities (i.e. preventive defense), roll back proliferation where it has occurred, deter the use of WMD and their delivery systems, and adapt U.S. military forces and planning to operate against the threats posed by WMD and their delivery systems. SOP provides unique capabilities to monitor and support DOD policy. SUSTAIN offers SOF the heretofore non-existent option for the earliest interception of WMD when a fleeting opportunity presents itself. 4.1.3 Special Reconnaissance (SR) This is reconnaissance and surveillance actions conducted as special operations in hostile, denied or politically sensitive environments to collect or verify information of strategic or operational significance, employing military capabilities not normally found in conventional forces. These actions provide an additive capability for commanders and may supplement other intelligence collection when conventional reconnaissance and surveillance actions are limited by weather, terrain, or adversary countermeasures. SUSTAIN may be the only alternative for the insertion of SR for missions of strategic importance where time, distance, and overflight challenges are severe. 4.1.4 Direct Action (DA) DA is the conduct of short-duration strikes and other small-scale offensive actions conducted as a special operation in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments to seize, destroy, care, exploit, recover, or damage designated targets of strategic or operational significance, employing specialized military capabilities. Direct action differs from conventional offensive actions in the level of physical and political risk, operational techniques, and the use of discriminating force to achieve specific objectives. SUSTAIN offers the DA mission the elements of speed, surprise and shock. The DA mission will also benefit from the vehicle's organic capabilities. In addition to an organic advanced combined arms weapons suite, the SUSTAIN vehicle(s) will possess a C4 suite that is fully integrated with and actively contributing to the global common operating picture. This includes SUSTAIN ability to facilitate a seamless broad spectrum of secure communications for coordinating requested fires from outside the theater with the team's plans for extraction. This will also permit coordination between the Joint Force Commander and higher, adjacent and subordinate elements throughout the battlespace and globally. 4.1.5 Unconventional Warfare (UW) UW involves a broad spectrum of military and paramilitary operations, normally of a long duration. UW is predominantly conducted by, with, or through indigenous or sunogate forces that are organized, trained, equipped, supported, and directed in varying degrees by an external source. UW includes guerrilla warfare and other direct offensive, low-visibility, covert, or clandestine operations, as well as the indirect activities of subversion, sabotage, intelligence activities, and unconventional assisted recovery. SUSTAIN can serve as a speedy long-range insertion capability for teams when time is short. 4.1.6 Information Operations (IO) These are actions taken to influence, affect or defend information, information systems and decision-making. SUSTAIN will have the operational capacity to assist the SOCOM detachment to the Joint Force Commander in the achievement of IO objectives. The SUSTAIN IO capability-set will include Electronic Warfare (EW), Computer Network Operations, Psychological Operations (PSYOPS), Operations Security (OPSEC), and Military Deception. The IO potential of the SUSTAIN capability is significant in terms of the earliest global appearance of relevant teams and capabilities.

Statistical evidence proves – terrorism is increasing
Kumar, ’12 [Chanchal Kumar, Department of Political Science, Janki Devi Memorial College, University of Delhi. “ Challenges of Global Terrorism- Strategies, Dimensions and Response: In Search of a Perspective”. International Affairs and Global Strategy, Vol 3, 2012. http://www.iiste.org/Journals/index.php/IAGS/article/view/1452/1377]
Generally, the use of terrorism as a tactic is becoming more frequent, more geographically widespread, and more deadly. Statistical data provided by the National Counterterrorism Centre (NCTC) 5 indicate steady annual increases in the number of terrorist incidents in a growing number of locations. At the same time, NCTC data indicate that a smaller number of incidents are resulting in a higher number of persons killed or injured. Terrorism is becoming more indiscriminate in its choice of victims. Casualties include not just combatants, Westerners, and non-Muslims. Targeting is less directed to specific individuals. Muslims are increasingly becoming victims of jihadist terrorism. This tendency will increase as Muslim versus Muslim conflict spills over into Europe. Terrorism is becoming more focused on economic targets and causing economic damage. The energy infrastructure will increasingly become a target, and the financial infrastructure may well follow. If our economic system cannot deliver concrete benefits to the world’s masses, the pool of angry and dissatisfied masses will grow, and terrorists will continue to hijack this dissatisfaction and channel and manipulate it for their causes. Jihadist terrorism is increasingly becoming an equal opportunity movement. Groups are actively recruiting non-Muslims, women, and youth. Terrorism is becoming more multidimensional. Groups like Hamas and Hezbollah have long had political, social, and religious, as well as military, components. Such groups fill important social service vacuums, obtaining popular support. Increasingly, we see a blurring between terrorism and organized crime. This means the emergence of more hybrid organizations. Terrorist groups will increasingly rely on each other for logistical support. This phenomenon has become more widespread in India. Explosive devices will likely be used as dispersion mechanisms for chemical agents to be spread beyond Israel to Iraq, Europe, and elsewhere. Currently, groups such as Hezbollah and Hamas add rat poison, a powerful anticoagulant, to conventional explosives for the purpose of increasing casualties. It will likely not be long before other groups “piggyback” on this innovative tactic with other, perhaps more lethal, forms of chemical agents. Included here are more multiple attacks, attacks on first responders, and more attacks on urban centers. Increasingly, urban centers are viewed by terrorist groups as a system. Terrorists seek to disrupt the functioning of the system to the maximum extent possible. Terrorism will prove to be increasing costly to societies, in both the economic costs of added security and the trade-offs of civil liberties for enhanced security. It is estimated that the increased global macroeconomic costs of added security in the wake of the September 11, 2001, attacks exceed $1 trillion. Moreover, many suggest that the greatest threat posed to societies by terrorism is the threat to the continued existence of democracies with their wide range of freedoms as we now know them. On the other hand, as use of terrorism as a tactic grows and evolves, so does our recognition and understanding of the threat and its basic tendencies. Our experience in containing terrorism without overreacting is growing as well.

Terrorists are fanatics – future terrorism will be apocalyptic not political
Walter Laqueur, ‘3 – historian, has taught at Brandeis University, Georgetown, Harvard, University of Chicago, Tel Aviv and John Hopkins university; expert in terrorism and one of the founders of its study; holocaust survivor [No end to war: terrorism in the twenty-first century. Google Books]
It was only to be expected that there should be voices arguing that the events of September 2001 had been unique and unlikely to recur, as time had passed without many major terrorist attacks. Memories are short and wishful thinking is deeply rooted. Terrorism will be given less attention if a full scale war breaks out. But no war lasts forever. It is too expensive in every respect in our day and age, whereas terrorism is relatively cheap and will be with us for as long as anyone can envision, even if not always at the same frequency and intensity. Terrorism has become the subject of a great deal of study, comment, debate, and controversy. There has been an enormous amount of comment on the roots of terrorism as well as the best ways to deal with it. Unfortunately, these debates have been distinguished very often more by passion and emotion (and, of course, preconceived notions) than by knowledge and insight. The history of terrorism remains an essential key to understanding the phenomenon; most of the new terms that have appeared in the literature in recent years refer to concepts that have always been known since time immemorial. Guerrilla warfare and terrorism were always “asymmetric warfare,” and the discovery that terrorists need “failed countries” (or regions of failed countries) would have been considered less than sensational in biblical times, let alone by Mao Tse-tung (from the caves of Adulam to the caves of Yenan). But past experience is no longer the only key for understanding terrorism. The crucial new elements are, as I tried to show in a book several years ago, easier access to weapons of mass destruction and the greater importance of religious-political fanaticism as a motive. At the present time, radical Islamism is the single most important force, and it will probably remain so for a considerable time to come. But there is always the danger of being blinded by current events; radical Islamism was not always the main threat and it may not always be in the future. There is no authoritative systematic guide to terrorism – no Clausewitz, not even a Jomini – and perhaps there never will be one, simply because there is not one terrorism but a variety of terrorism and what is true for one does not necessarily apply to others. There are major obstacles on the road toward understanding terrorism; perhaps no other topic in our time has provoked such violent emotions. Those who have been commenting with the greatest assurance on terrorism are usually concerened with one group, ethnic or political. they are not preoocupied with the general phenomemon of terrorism, but the fate and interests of the specific group with which they identify with or oppose. Those preoocupied with terrorism in the Israeli-Palestinian context (except for a small group of professional experts) are usually unwilling to give even passing thought to events in Algeria or Sri Lanka; the fact that, to give another example, suicide terrorism occurs in various parts of the world and not just in one will merely be regarded as confusing by those engaging in sweeping generalizatiosn on the subject. People preoccupied with the Kashmir conflict have little interest in events in Colombia or the Balkans – faraway countries about which little is known and that seem irrelevant to the problems at hand. Those finding justifications for the violence of the extreme left (which leads them to far-reaching generalizations about the progressive character tout court of global terrorism) tend to forget that there is also a terrorism of the far right of which they do not approve at all. The student of terrorism has to consider the general picture; any fixation on one specific aspect of terrorism is bound to lead to wrong conclusions. The use of terms like “left” and “right” has become more and more problematical with the passing of timel it has become more often than not misleading in an age of growing populism that can with equal ease adopt views and politics that used to be considered “left” and “right.” Terrorist groups of the extreme “left” have often become aggressively nationalistic, whereas those of the far right are second to none with their ardent anticapitalism and anti-Americanism. Trotskyites have given critical support to Ayatolla Khomeini and the Talkiban with their radical “anti-imperialism,” and neo-Nazis are suggesting a “third position,” an anti-Westernism that should unite extremists from the left and the right. Anti-Semitism, once the preserve of the extreme right, has spread to the far left. Is Osama bin Laden a man of the left or the right? The question is, of course, absud: The religious-nationalist terrorists have nothing in common with the ideas of the traditional, secular left; they may have in common certain features with fascism. But such comparisons are of limited relevance only; traditional Western political categories do not apply to them. They are premodern and postmodern at the same time. Another major obstacle to understanding terrorism is the psychological resistance against accepting uncomfortable facts. Such resistance to accept new facts running counter to deeply ingrained beliefs is not, of course, new. It has occurred whenever a new movement appeared on the scene; fascism and communism, to give but two examples, were interpreted in the light of the past, and what was essentially new in these movements was overlooked. This form of resistance has been frequent even in the history of science, and it should have come as not surprise that in the study of terrorism in which scientific proof and prediction do not exist, resistance should be even stronger. As a result, the debate on terrorism has resembled quite often a parade of old hobby horses. People who have ready-made explanations of why terrorism occurs will not easily give up their beliefs, however much proof to the contrary is produced. My interest in terrorism and geurilla warfare goes back some three decades. I dealth with the history of these two subjects in two volumes in the 1970s. My assunmption at the time was that while terrorism was a topic of great fascination, its political importance was limited. But I did not exclude that a time might come when, for a variety of reasons, terrorism might assume a far more important role. I mentioned in my earlier writing growring fanaticism, religious and nationalist, on the one hand and access to weapons of mass destruction on the other. Fanaticism per se is of course not new, but it has had a major rebirth – much to the surprise of those in Europe and America who had believed that it was a thing of the past. The use of the weapons of mass destruction by fanatics is yet to come. Awareness of this danger has not yet percolated in the public consciousness: the possibility, indeed the probability, that even very small groups of people will be able to inflict enormous damage on societies and that the number of victims could be infinitely greater than in the past. There is yet another crucial difference between the old terrorism and the new: until recently, terrorism was, by and large, disciriminate, selecting its victims carefully – kings and queens, government ministers, generals, and other leading political figures and officials. It was, more often than not, “propaganda by deed.” Contemporary terrorism has increasingly become indiscriminate in the choice of its victims. Its aim is no longer to conduct propaganda but to effect maximum destruction. Another important difference between the old terrorism and the new is the crucial importance of paranoiac elements in the terrorism of the far right and the extreme left, perhaps most of all in terrorists inspired by religious fanaticism. National oppression (to give but one example) is not a delusional disorder, but it is precisely in individuals and groups of religious-nationalist extremists that aggression and hostility toward others become unmanageable, and that the all-consuming concern with nonexistent hidden motives leads to a loss of the sense of reality. The outlook is poor; there are no known cures for fanaticism and paranoia. Present debates about the causes of terrorism deal with topics such as ethnic and religious tensions, globalism and antiglobalism, poverty and exploitation. But these issues could be less important with regard to the terrorism of the future; the smaller the terrorism group, the more outlandish its doctrine is likely to be and the greater the relevance of psychological factors. There is bound to be great resistance to accepting this. But there is no accounting for the perceived complaints and injuries of a handful of people by means of invoking broad social, economic, and political trends. Eventually the old science-fiction scenario of the mad scientist taking vengeance on society could become reality.

Recent technology advances make bioterror likely
Garrett, 12/15/11 [Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola epidemic in what was then Zaire, and author of I Heard the Sirens Scream: How Americans Responded to the 9/11 and Anthrax Attacks. “The Bioterrorist Next Door”. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/12/14/the_bioterrorist_next_door?page=0,0]
In September, an amiable Dutchman stepped up to the podium at a scientific meeting convened on the island of Malta and announced that he had created a form of influenza that could well be the deadliest contagious disease humanity has ever faced. The bombshell announcement, by virologist Ron Fouchier of Erasmus Medical Center, sparked weeks of vigorous debate among the world's experts on bioterrorism, influenza, virology, and national security over whether the research should have been performed or announced and whether it should ever be published. Meanwhile, a joint Japanese-American research team led by the University of Wisconsin's Yoshihiro Kawaoka says that it, too, has manufactured a superflu. Additionally, a team at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta has acknowledged doing similar research, without successfully making the über flu. The U.S. National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity is now deliberating whether to censor publication of the Fouchier and Kawaoka papers, though it lacks any actual power to do so: It could so advise scientific journals, but editors would still decide. The advisory board is expected to release its decision on Dec. 15. The interest in this brave new world of biology is not limited to the scientific community. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton made a surprise visit to Geneva on Dec. 7, addressing the Biological Weapons Convention review conference. The highest-ranking U.S. official to speak to the biological weapons group in decades, Clinton warned, "The emerging gene-synthesis industry is making genetic material widely available. This obviously has many benefits for research, but it could also potentially be used to assemble the components of a deadly organism." "A crude but effective terrorist weapon can be made by using a small sample of any number of widely available pathogens, inexpensive equipment, and college-level chemistry and biology," Clinton also stated. "Less than a year ago, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula made a call to arms for, and I quote, 'brothers with degrees in microbiology or chemistry to develop a weapon of mass destruction.'" Noting that "It is not possible, in our opinion, to create a verification regime" for biological weapons compliance under the convention, Clinton called for voluntary transparency on biological experimentation among the 165 countries that have signed the agreement. Officials throughout the U.S. government are declining to comment on the influenza experiments or elaborate on Clinton's comments and appearance in Geneva. The influenza scientists were politely but firmly instructed recently by U.S. officials to keep their mouths shut and provide no data or details regarding their experiments to anybody. Sources inside the Dutch, German, and French governments say that discreet agreement was reached among Western leaders to greet the influenza pronouncements with a wall of silence, pending the advisory board's decision and detailed analysis of the experiments by classified intelligence and scientific bodies. Should we worry? If these scientists have indeed used the techniques that they have verbally described (but not yet published) to produce a highly contagious and virulent form of the so-called "bird flu," the feat can at least theoretically be performed by lesser-skilled individuals with nefarious intentions. Perhaps more significantly, the evolutionary leaps might be made naturally, via flu-infected birds, pigs, even humans. In other words, the research has implications for both terrorism and a catastrophic pandemic. Moreover, several experimental antecedents involving smallpox-like viruses and polio lend credence to the idea that concocting or radically altering viruses to create more lethal or transmissible germs is becoming an easier feat and an accidental byproduct of legitimate research. The advisory board is debating whether the work, as well as details on how the flu viruses were deliberately mutated, should be published. That is the wrong question. As a practical matter, experimental results are now shared with lightning speed between laboratories, and I know that several leading scientists outside Fouchier's and Kawaoka's labs already recognize exactly how these experiments were executed. The genie is out of the bottle: Eager graduate students in virology departments from Boston to Bangkok have convened journal-review debates reckoning exactly how these viral Frankenstein efforts were carried out. The list of attempts by governments to stifle scientific information is lengthy and marked by failure. I was at a 1982 optical engineering meeting in San Diego that was disrupted by a censorship order handed down by the Ronald Reagan administration's security chief, Adm. Bobby Ray Inman, compelling seizure of about 100 papers. The administration claimed the findings in those mathematics papers would, in Soviet hands, pose an existential threat to the United States -- an assertion that proved laughable when the studies soon saw the light of day. In 2006, George W. Bush's administration tried to block climate change–related presentations by NASA scientist James Hansen; every single one of Hansen's data points swiftly appeared on the Internet. Rather than trying to censor research because its inevitable release might be harmful, we ought to be having a frank, open discussion about its implications. The correct questions that scientists, national security and political leaders, and the public ought to be asking are: How difficult was it to perform these experiments? Could they be replicated in the hands of criminals or would-be terrorists? What have these experiments shown us about the likelihood that the H5N1 "bird flu" virus will naturally evolve into this terrifying form? Are we safer, or less secure, today due to the post-2001 anthrax-inspired proliferation of high-security biological laboratories?

Bio-terror is comparatively worse than nuclear war
Clifford Singer, Spring 2001. Director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign. “Will Mankind Survive the Millennium?” The Bulletin of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 13.1, http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/research/S&Ps/2001-Sp/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm.
In recent years the fear of the apocalypse (or religious hope for it) has been in part a child of the Cold War, but its seeds in Western culture go back to the Black Death and earlier. Recent polls suggest that the majority in the United States that believe man would survive into the future for substantially less than a millennium was about 10 percent higher in the Cold War than afterward. However fear of annihilation of the human species through nuclear warfare was confused with the admittedly terrifying, but much different matter of destruction of a dominant civilization. The destruction of a third or more of much of the globe’s population through the disruption from the direct consequences of nuclear blast and fire damage was certainly possible. There was, and still is, what is now known to be a rather small chance that dust raised by an all-out nuclear war would cause a so-called nuclear winter, substantially reducing agricultural yields especially in temperate regions for a year or more. As noted above mankind as a whole has weathered a number of mind-boggling disasters in the past fifty thousand years even if older cultures or civilizations have sometimes eventually given way to new ones in the process. Moreover the fear that radioactive fallout would make the globe uninhabitable, publicized by widely seen works such as "On the Beach," was a metaphor for the horror of nuclear war rather than reality. The epidemiological lethal results of well over a hundred atmospheric nuclear tests are barely statistically detectable except in immediate fallout plumes. The increase in radiation exposure far from the combatants in even a full scale nuclear exchange at the height of the Cold War would have been modest compared to the variations in natural background radiation doses that have readily been adapted to by a number of human populations. Nor is there any reason to believe that global warming or other insults to our physical environment resulting from currently used technologies will challenge the survival of mankind as a whole beyond what it has already handily survived through the past fifty thousand years. There are, however, two technologies currently under development that may pose a more serious threat to human survival. The first and most immediate is biological warfare combined with genetic engineering. Smallpox is the most fearsome of natural biological warfare agents in existence. By the end of the next decade, global immunity to smallpox will likely be at a low unprecedented since the emergence of this disease in the distant past, while the opportunity for it to spread rapidly across the globe will be at an all time high. In the absence of other complications such as nuclear war near the peak of an epidemic, developed countries may respond with quarantine and vaccination to limit the damage. Otherwise mortality there may match the rate of 30 percent or more expected in unprepared developing countries. With respect to genetic engineering using currently available knowledge and technology, the simple expedient of spreading an ample mixture of coat protein variants could render a vaccination response largely ineffective, but this would otherwise not be expected to substantially increase overall mortality rates. With development of new biological technology, however, there is a possibility that a variety of infectious agents may be engineered for combinations of greater than natural virulence and mortality, rather than just to overwhelm currently available antibiotics or vaccines. There is no a priori known upper limit to the power of this type of technology base, and thus the survival of a globally connected human family may be in question when and if this is achieved.

Any WMD terrorist attack results in nuclear great power war
Ayson 10, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a catastrophic interstate nuclear exchange—are not necessarily separable. It is just possible that some sort of terrorist attack, and especially an act of nuclear terrorism, could precipitate a chain of events leading to a massive exchange of nuclear weapons between two or more of the states that possess them. In this context, today’s and tomorrow’s terrorist groups might assume the place allotted during the early Cold War years to new state possessors of small nuclear arsenals who were seen as raising the risks of a catalytic nuclear war between the superpowers started by third parties. These risks were considered in the late 1950s and early 1960s as concerns grew about nuclear proliferation, the so-called n+1 problem. It may require a considerable amount of imagination to depict an especially plausible situation where an act of nuclear terrorism could lead to such a massive inter-state nuclear war. For example, in the event of a terrorist nuclear attack on the United States, it might well be wondered just how Russia and/or China could plausibly be brought into the picture, not least because they seem unlikely to be fingered as the most obvious state sponsors or encouragers of terrorist groups. They would seem far too responsible to be involved in supporting that sort of terrorist behavior that could just as easily threaten them as well. Some possibilities, however remote, do suggest themselves. For example, how might the United States react if it was thought or discovered that the fissile material used in the act of nuclear terrorism had come from Russian stocks,40 and if for some reason Moscow denied any responsibility for nuclear laxity? The correct attribution of that nuclear material to a particular country might not be a case of science fiction given the observation by Michael May et al. that while the debris resulting from a nuclear explosion would be “spread over a wide area in tiny fragments, its radioactivity makes it detectable, identifiable and collectable, and a wealth of information can be obtained from its analysis: the efficiency of the explosion, the materials used and, most important … some indication of where the nuclear material came from.”41 Alternatively, if the act of nuclear terrorism came as a complete surprise, and American officials refused to believe that a terrorist group was fully responsible (or responsible at all) suspicion would shift immediately to state possessors. Ruling out Western ally countries like the United Kingdom and France, and probably Israel and India as well, authorities in Washington would be left with a very short list consisting of North Korea, perhaps Iran if its program continues, and possibly Pakistan. But at what stage would Russia and China be definitely ruled out in this high stakes game of nuclear Cluedo? In particular, if the act of nuclear terrorism occurred against a backdrop of existing tension in Washington’s relations with Russia and/or China, and at a time when threats had already been traded between these major powers, would officials and political leaders not be tempted to assume the worst? Of course, the chances of this occurring would only seem to increase if the United States was already involved in some sort of limited armed conflict with Russia and/or China, or if they were confronting each other from a distance in a proxy war, as unlikely as these developments may seem at the present time. The reverse might well apply too: should a nuclear terrorist attack occur in Russia or China during a period of heightened tension or even limited conflict with the United States, could Moscow and Beijing resist the pressures that might rise domestically to consider the United States as a possible perpetrator or encourager of the attack? Washington’s early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country’s armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, it is just possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force (and possibly nuclear force) against them. In that situation, the temptations to preempt such actions might grow, although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.

===1AC – crisis management=== 
Contention 3: crisis management
The plan is key to it
First, early military response
Damphousse, ‘8 – Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO. [Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability. Includes input from the NSSO, air force, special forces, and marine corps. http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]
The expeditionary nature of Joint SOP will allow for tailorable force packages capable of conducting operations in countries and regions of interest anywhere in the world. These tailorable force packages will provide COCOMS with a highly responsive and adaptable instrument to influence operations or resolve crises. With respect to responsiveness SUSTAIN provides a leap-ahead improvement over traditional aerospace transport for those teams. SOCOM teams organize, train and equip specifically for operations globally. Yet, absent the preexisting forward deployment of teams, transport of teams and capabilities is limited to terrestrial air, land, sea, and undersea vehicle speeds. New concepts for aircraft carrier and amphibious shipping Sea Bases expand SOCOM basing options, offering political leaders increased freedom of action; however land-locked areas of operation and overflight restrictions still present SOF insertion constraints. The SUSTAIN capability provides SOF teams in support of the Joint Force Commander (JFC) or national command Authority (NCA) the capacity to be rapidly transported to any point on the globe, effectively instantaneously. The objective SUSTAIN capability spans the full spectrum of Special Forces (SF) employment, to include a wide range of manned and unmanned payloads. A fundamental advantage of a SUSTAIN capability with global reach stems from its inherent operational mobility, or more precisely its operational agility. Specifically, it provides the highspeed transport necessary to rapidly move credible specialized forces to remote locations with precision. Furthermore, it provides this capability within minutes and hours of execution orders as opposed to days associated with conventional terrestrial transportation. Equally suitable for operations from land-based airfields, space ports, SUSTAIN vehicle-capable carrier ships, or military space stations, SUSTAIN provides the Joint Force Commander (J FC) virtually unlimited basing options for Special Forces (SF) team insertion and extraction. SUSTAIN will constitute the first family of multi-mission military aerospace vehicles to include a man-rated space vehicle in the SOCOM tool kit. It will blend the versatility of tactical assault support aircraft with the revolutionary speed and global reach that can only be achieved with a suborbital or orbital space craft. SUSTAIN is planned as a combined arms compliment to conventional all-terrestrial aircraft capabilities such as the CV-22, C-130, and the other fixed and rotary wing aircraft in the SOCOM inventory. SUSTAIN is a high leverage capability that will greatly expand JESOF and national options in an age where timely response to crises in their infancy can mitigate the need for an escalation of hostilities at an increased national cost.

Speed matters, not size
Defense Technology Internatonal, ‘5 [September/October. Defense magazine edited by Sharon Weinberger, a national security writer focusing on science and technology issues. pp 21. http://www.nxtbook.com/fx/books/mh/awdti0905/]
“The earlier you intervene in a crisis . . . the lower the national cost,” says Franz Gayl, the science and technology adviser to the Marine Corps’ deputy commandant for plans, policies and operations. Gayl, who is temporarily assigned as a student at the National Defense University’s Industrial College of the Armed Forces in Washington, is a proponent of the idea that some ground presence – even a handful of specially trained marines – can provide the ability to react quickly to trouble, or, even better, set the stage to avoid major conflict.


Second, diplomatic management
Damphousse and nine other military space experts, ’10 [Paul Damphousse, Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO; Bart Denny. Space Systems Analyst at U.S. Special Operations Command; Alan Dunham, senior analyst at the National Security Space Office; Franz Gayl, science and tech adviser to the Marine Corps’s deputy commandant; Roosevelt Lafontant, a former Marine lieutenant colonel now employed by the Schafer Corporation, a military-technology consulting firm working with the Marines; Bob Lancaster is the Executive Director of the Texas Space Alliance, following service in the Air Force as Branch Chief for Force Protection Innovations at the Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center; Amy Pointer (NSSO); Paul Rancatore (NSSO); David Smith (NSSO); and Christopher Stone (NSSO). “Space Transportation Technology Roadmap”, a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs. October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]
4.3.4 Other Government Space Transportation Needs o 4.3.4.1 State Department Shuttle Diplomacy The U.S. Department of State (DoS) continues to place a high value on the face-to-face interaction of senior diplomats and National leaders, especially during periods of international crisis. A historical example that comes to mind was the importance of face-to-face shuttle diplomacy during the 1973 Yom Kipper War when the direct presence of the Secretary of State in various capitals over a period of days and hours narrowly averted a nuclear confrontation between the U.S. and the Soviet Union. Since the rapidity of crisis development has only increased with technology, the need for such senior U.S. representation for direct and unambiguous communication will increase accordingly. o 4.3.4.2 National Lab WMD Counter-Proliferation Monitoring The Department of Energy (DoE) and other agencies such as the Office of Nuclear Counter-Terrorism (NCT) are tasked with assisting in countering the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) through accurate monitoring and assessments. National assets look for electromagnetic (EM) signatures of events and devices. Yet, the ability to rapidly attain air, soil, and other samples in a timely fashion is often the key to making a defensible assessment. A recent example involved the suspected detonation of a fission weapon by a rogue state. It took some time, perhaps days and even weeks before air samples were obtainable to verify that the detonation indeed occurred. This was an inefficient means to ascertain the truth or fiction of rouge state propaganda. A space transportation capability could reduce such certainty to mere hours, with significant information operations (IO) benefits to the U.S. o 4.3.4.3 Global Dignitary Transport Services Similar in spirit to the use of suborbital or orbital space transportation for shuttle diplomacy, such transportation can be employed for Heads of State and other dignitaries whenever time is critical. This could constitute the provision of a vehicle to foreign VIPs to the U.S. and their return so as to minimize schedule interruptions, and essentially make the meeting possible when it would otherwise not be possible. These instances fall short of the urgency of crisis shuttle diplomacy, however the strategic value of such meetings could certainly be of similar significance.

Third, quick victories
Damphousse and nine other military space experts, ’10 [Paul Damphousse, Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO; Bart Denny. Space Systems Analyst at U.S. Special Operations Command; Alan Dunham, senior analyst at the National Security Space Office; Franz Gayl, science and tech adviser to the Marine Corps’s deputy commandant; Roosevelt Lafontant, a former Marine lieutenant colonel now employed by the Schafer Corporation, a military-technology consulting firm working with the Marines; Bob Lancaster is the Executive Director of the Texas Space Alliance, following service in the Air Force as Branch Chief for Force Protection Innovations at the Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center; Amy Pointer (NSSO); Paul Rancatore (NSSO); David Smith (NSSO); and Christopher Stone (NSSO). “Space Transportation Technology Roadmap”, a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs. October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]
4.2.4.28.1 In order to justify the cost of a revolutionary military system such as SUSTAIN, it must demonstrate a high-level of military utility in a variety of scenarios. Thus, a military utility analysis was performed to assess the value of SUSTAIN. We chose an invasion of a friendly nation by a hostile nation as our test case, as it would stress intelligence collection and prompt negation of Weapon of Mass Destruction (WMD) time-critical targets. We compare this conflict occurring in 2010 without SUSTAIN with the same conflict occurring in 2025 with SUSTAIN, while keeping everything else in the war game the same. 4.2.4.28.2 During our 100 war game runs [simulation runs], SUSTAIN was able to deliver a covert Special Forces team to a hostile nation within 12 hours of an American Intelligence Community request to verify a potential nuclear attack and successfully sabotage the nuclear delivery system hours before the attack to prevent a catastrophe to American and allied nation military forces. This resulted in a stunning and overwhelming victory to American and allied forces using SUSTAIN vs. a surprising victory by hostile forces when SUSTAIN was unavailable.  4.2.4.28.3 SUSTAIN significantly improves the blue (allied) force exchange ratio -- 98% of blue forces survive, while 50% of red (hostile) forces are neutralized in 2025. This is compared to 80% of red forces surviving and 50% of blue forces being neutralized in a 2010 invasion without SUSTAIN. Attrition rates for the two sides with and without SUSTAIN are shown below. [GRAPH REMOVED]  4.2.4.28.4 To conduct this military utility analysis, we utilized three modeling and simulation tools: Satellite Tool Kit from Analytical Graphics, Inc. to model the orbital and suborbital SUSTAIN geometries, EXTEND from Imagine That, Inc. to model the communication nodal data flow, and Systems Effectiveness Analysis Simulation (SEAS) from the United States Air Force to model the war. 4.2.4.28.5 Conclusions. SUSTAIN employment can revolutionize the twenty-first century battlefield. U.S. military force projection capabilities could be greatly enhanced by a rapid-response Prompt Global Transport capability that will provide over-flight of denied territory by at least 50 miles altitude. SUSTAIN should consider using a family of multiple architectures and designs for maximum mission adaptability. The SUSTAIN trade space should encompass various options such as ballistic sub-orbital flight, flight largely within the atmosphere, and ―atmospheric skipper<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">‖</span> near-space trajectories. Although the non-recurring engineering as well as the operation of a Prompt Global Transport system are likely to be costly, the savings resulting from crises averted should make it well worth the investment.


American rapid response capabilities are crucial to credibly deter aggression
Gerson, ‘9 – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]
This article seeks to expand the current debate about the role and utility of conventional forces in US deterrence strategies by reexamining the traditional logic of conventional deterrence, which focuses on deterrence by denial, in the context of the modern international security environment. It is primarily concerned with the role of US conventional forces in extended deterrence, defined as the threat of force to protect allies and friends, rather than “central” or “homeland” deterrence. 3 This focus on extended deterrence—and especially on the role of deterrence by denial in extended deterrence—highlights the central importance of protecting territory from attack and invasion. Historically, the desire for control over specific territory has been a frequent motivator of interstate crises and conflict. 4 While interstate conventional wars have significantly declined since the end of the Second World War, the potential for conflict over Taiwan or on the Korean Peninsula, the prospect of future clashes over control of scarce natural resources, and the 2008 war between Georgia and Russia attest to the continued possibility of conflict over specific territory that has important strategic, economic, political, religious, historical, or socio-cultural significance. Consequently, this article examines how US conventional military power can be used to deter conventional aggression against friends and allies by threatening to deny an adversary its best chance of success on the battlefield—a surprise or short-notice attack with little or no engagement with American military forces. The ability to prevent an opponent from presenting the United States with a fait accompli—that is, from striking quickly and achieving victory before substantial US (and perhaps coalition) forces can be deployed to the theater—is a central component of modern conventional deterrence. Conventional Deterrence in US Strategy Broadly defined, deterrence is the threat of force intended to convince a potential aggressor not to undertake a particular action because the costs will be unacceptable or the probability of success extremely low. This threat has always been one of the central strategic principles by which nations attempted to prevent conflict. 5 Even so, the development and rigorous analysis of deterrence as a discrete strategic concept did not occur until the advent of nuclear weapons. Deterrence theory was developed against the backdrop of the Cold War nuclear arms race and focused on the prevention of nuclear conflict. Yet, while the majority of academic research and public debate was concerned with the prevention of nuclear war—the net result was that deterrence became synonymous with nuclear weapons—conventional deterrence, appropriately, assumed an increasingly important role in the development of military strategy during this period. 6 As the Soviet Union began to amass a large and survivable nuclear arsenal that was capable of global reach in the late 1950s and early 1960s, the credibility of the Eisenhower Administration’s policy of “Massive Retaliation,” which threatened an overwhelming nuclear response to virtually any Soviet aggression, was brought into question. Once the Soviet Union developed survivable nuclear capabilities that could reach the US homeland, many defense officials and analysts argued that the threat of Massive Retaliation lacked credibility against anything other than an all-out Soviet nuclear attack. 7 As a result, western military strategy eventually shifted from total reliance on nuclear weapons as a means of deterring both Soviet conventional and nuclear aggression to a strategy of “Flexible Response,” which included conventional and nuclear elements. From the mid-1960s onward, NATO relied on conventional power, backed by the threat of nuclear escalation, to deter any conventional assault on Europe by the numerically superior Warsaw Pact, and relied on nuclear weapons to deter nuclear attacks. 8 By incorporating “direct defense”—the ability to respond to Warsaw Pact aggression, especially conventional aggression, with proportionate (i.e., conventional) force—into NATO strategy, the concept of Flexible Response sought to create a more credible means of deterrence across the entire spectrum of conflict Following the Cold War, conventional greater role in US national security strategy. With the demise of the Soviet Union and significant advancements in conventional precision-guided munitions, many defense analysts concluded that “smart” weapons could provide a powerful deterrent against a wide variety of threats. While some commentators argued that nuclear weapons were still necessary to prevent nuclear attacks, and others contended that conventional weapons were “the only credible deterrent” even against nuclear threats, almost all agreed that technologically advanced conventional weapons could now take the place of nuclear weapons in many missions. 9 Following the remarkable success of sophisticated conventional firepower in Operation Desert Storm, William Perry declared, “This new conventional military capability adds a powerful dimension to the ability of the United States to deter war.” 10 In the current international security environment, conventional deterrence can be useful against nonnuclear and nuclear-armed adversaries. For regimes that do not possess nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons, US conventional capabilities will likely be the most credible and potent deterrent. History suggests that, in general, nations without weapons of mass destruction (WMD) are not intimidated by an opponent’s nuclear capabilities. For example, nuclear weapons did not give the United States significant advantages before or during the Korean and Vietnam wars; nor did they dissuade Egypt from attacking Israel in the 1973 Yom Kippur War 11 or Argentina from attacking the British-controlled Falkland Islands in 1982. 12 This circumstance is due in part to the perceived impact of the “nuclear taboo,” a moral and political aversion to using nuclear weapons that has emerged due to the long absence of nuclear use in time of war. The nuclear taboo reduces the credibility—and therefore the utility—of nuclear weapons, especially against regimes not possessing nuclear weapons or other WMD. 13 Although implicit or explicit nuclear threats may lack credibility against non-WMD regimes, many potential adversaries believe that the United States will use conventional firepower, especially because America has conventional superiority and a demonstrated willingness to use it. Consequently, when dealing with non-WMD-related threats, conventional deterrence will be the most likely mechanism for deterring hostile actions. 36 Parameters According to Admiral Michael Mullen, the current Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “A big part of credibility, of course, lies in our conventional capability. The capability to project power globally and conduct effective theater-level operations . . . remains essential to deterrence effectiveness.” 14 Conventional deterrence also plays an important role in preventing nonnuclear aggression by nuclear-armed regimes. Regional nuclear proliferation may not only increase the chances for the use of nuclear weapons, but, equally important, the possibility of conventional aggression. The potential for conventional conflict under the shadow of mutual nuclear deterrence was a perennial concern throughout the Cold War, and that scenario is still relevant. A nuclear-armed adversary may be emboldened to use conventional force against US friends and allies, or to sponsor terrorism, in the belief that its nuclear capabilities give it an effective deterrent against US retaliation or intervention. 15 For example, a regime might calculate that it could undertake conventional aggression against a neighbor and, after achieving a relatively quick victory, issue implicit or explicit nuclear threats in the expectation that the United States (and perhaps coalition partners) would choose not to get involved. In this context, conventional deterrence can be an important mechanism to limit options for regional aggression below the nuclear threshold. By deploying robust conventional forces in and around the theater of potential conflict, the United States can credibly signal that it can respond to conventional aggression at the outset, and therefore the opponent cannot hope to simultaneously achieve a quick conventional victory and use nuclear threats to deter US involvement. Moreover, if the United States can convince an opponent that US forces will be engaged at the beginning of hostilities—and will therefore incur the human and financial costs of war from the start—it can help persuade opponents that the United States would be highly resolved to fight even in the face of nuclear threats because American blood and treasure would have already been expended. 16 Similar to the Cold War, the deployment of conventional power in the region, combined with significant nuclear capabilities and escalation dominance, can help prevent regimes from believing that nuclear possession provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion.

Agile, global military reach is key to contain aggressors and manage power transitions – every hotspot is at risk
Major Munson, ’11 – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]
A decade of war has focused Marines’ minds on insurgency, culture, and the permutations of modern irregular warfare, but the Nation’s greatest strategic threats lurk between the lines of economic stories from the developing world and just beyond the future years defense program. The debate over the future of the Marine Corps is shaped largely by our recent history and attractive concepts, such as fourth-generation warfare.1 While tactics and technology are important, they must be predicated upon a strategic understanding of the world and states’ policy goals within it in order to be successful. The dominant feature of today’s strategic environment is socioeconomic transformation in the developing world and concomitant change in the world’s power structure.2 This transformation will prevail over most of this century, affecting patterns of warfare in all intensities. America, still the clearly predominant power, is seeing its relative advantage over other states decline. The Marine Corps, in concert with the Navy, must orient itself on the rising poles of economic and military power in the Indo-Pacific theater, with the primary tasks of securing this economic center’s vital littoral and maritime lines of communications and acting as a credible and sustainable deterrent force against hostile actions by regional powers, particularly China. First, the Marine Corps’ strategic understanding of the challenges ahead should center on the dramatic shift of economic power to the East, including the Middle East, and the struggle of states and societies there to cope with it. This socioeconomic perspective should eschew the focus on culture above the tactical level as it clouds judgment by loading debate with an ideological perception of unchanging and irreconcilable cultures, rather than recognizing the malleability of culture for good and bad in the face of socioeconomic change. The Indo-Pacific theater, stretching from the coasts of Africa and Arabia roughly to the Kuril-Japan-Philippines-Indonesia line, will be the central front of regional power economic and security competition as rising powers vie over trade, resources, and lines of communications between Africa, the Middle East, and Asia proper. This competition will take place almost exclusively in maritime and littoral spaces, demanding that the Corps return to its roots. Second, the reality that America’s relative power advantage is waning should drive a paradigm shift toward a much more frugal approach to military operations and the strategic expenditure of power. While many of the most critical decisions in this realm are made at the national strategy and policy level, the Marine Corps is uniquely suited to correct the decadence that has been expending our national power at an alarming rate with little impact on mission accomplishment. Coping With a Return to Normalcy America’s period of unprecedented dominance, which shaped the peaceful and prosperous postwar world, is in transition as the world’s economic center of gravity shifts from the Atlantic to the Indo-Pacific.3 As a German officer noted to Frederich Engels in the 1880s, “The basis of warfare is primarily the economic life of peoples.”4 That economic life is changing greatly in the East, driving destabilizing societal changes and remaking the international power structure in which the United States is the strongest state in a much unrulier cast of rising powers. America will still be the world leader but with less of a power advantage. Its developed world allies are growing weaker from domestic fiscal and political troubles, meaning status quo leaders will have less leverage against regional powers seeking change. The last time the world saw this unstable power structure was between the World Wars, when British hegemony faded, the United States was ascendant but remained in relative isolation, Germany made its play for world domination, and Japan sought to carve out regional dominance in the Pacific.5 The results need not be so dramatic, but in this transformation we are experiencing what historian Paul Kennedy calls a return to “normalcy,”6 in which America is no longer a hyperpower but only the strongest state in a group of powers likely to come into conflict. The heart of global commerce is moving to routes that stretch from the oil fields inland of the Arabian Sea, through the littoral regions of India and China and the sea lines of communications (SLOCs) that serve them, and to the islands and coastal states of Southeast Asia. This crossroads of world commerce is tied to other theaters by water as well. The Indian Ocean stretches to emerging markets in Africa, the Bab el-Mendeb Strait and the Suez connect the Indo-Pacific to the massive European market, and the vast expanse of the Pacific connects Asia to the Americas, especially the political and economic opportunities of South America. This is China’s backyard. India’s star is rising in the region as well, but its development is more private sector-driven and less militaristic. Iran, situated on the Persian Gulf and the critical Strait of Hormuz, pursues asymmetric maritime and littoral capabilities at one end of the theater. North Korea’s weapons are a significant and unpredictable threat at the other end. Extraregional powers have interests in the Indo-Pacific too. Russia continues to maintain some blue water capability, in addition to strategic missile, bomber, and patrol capabilities. He who controls the Indo-Pacific controls the future. Chinese maritime commerce in 2020 will exceed $1 trillion, and 75 percent of its oil will come via the sea.7 The constrained SLOCs between China, her resources, and her markets are a critical vulnerability that has Chinese strategists combining 19th century naval theories with Maoist concepts of asymmetry. Chinese strategists see American hegemony as potentially hostile and desire capabilities to selectively deny access to the Indo-Pacific8 and to police it on their own. While not officially acknowledged, Chinese strategists have staked out phase lines on their sea flank consisting of first (Kurils, Japan, Ryukus, Taiwan, Philippines, and Indonesia), second (Japan, Bonins, Marianas, and Palau), and even third (Hawaii and other U.S. mid-Pacific bases) island chains9 as markers of China’s encirclement and antiaccess goals. The second chain encompasses China’s “near seas,” ranged by ballistic missiles, including a new “carrier killer” missile.10 Chinese capabilities to this end, especially if considered beyond 2020, are improving and present both challenge and opportunity for the Marine Corps. Several phenomena contribute to a rising likelihood of conflict starting around 2020. The opportunity presented by America’s self-induced power expenditures in the past decade and what Chinese analysts “gleefully” see as impending defeat in Afghanistan11 has brought increasing use of the term “multipolarity” in Chinese publications. Some speculate that America’s recent emphasis on security cooperation likewise reflects a realization that our capabilities do not match our ambitions in the region.12 This perception of a weakened and distracted America will encourage aggressive policies during the fleeting window of opportunity before China faces significant domestic challenges within the coming decades. Its one-child policy means that it faces an aging and soon-to-decline population, while its rapid growth has left behind a significant portion of the population. Inequality and corruption are bringing some insiders to question the sustainability of China’s political and economic model of growth.13 The generation now coming to power was shaped in the significantly nationalist milieu that followed the Tiananmen Square massacre of 1989, producing an expectation of Chinese dominance and a return to its rightful place as a world leader in their lifetime. Leaders seeking to sustain growth and divert domestic discontent may choose aggressive nationalistic foreign policies if their alternatives are not properly shaped through a combination of diplomacy and deterrence. Preparing for Greater Challenges The transitions in the world’s economic and power structure laid out above provide clear indications of the Corps’ likely future role and the frugal calculus that is required to avoid further depleting national resources. The Corps must continue to be an expeditionary force capable of operating across the spectrum of war, but likely developments suggest key areas of focus. Afghanistan will require small wars skills in the near term, which must be retained to deal with the effects of socioeconomic transition kindled into proxy wars by regional powers or transnational movements. Additionally, the Corps will continue to have equity in theater functional and contingency plans, especially humanitarian assistance/disaster relief and noncombatant evacuation operations. State collapse in Pakistan has been highlighted as a likely scenario in the near term, which would call on many of the above skills,14 but beyond securing nuclear material, strategic calculus dictates an extremely cautious approach to what would be a much more taxing entanglement than either Iraq or Afghanistan. Looking past these requirements, the Corps must orient itself on the challenge in the Indo-Pacific, which requires a frugal, truly expeditionary, and adaptive force capable of operating in the face of robust and asymmetric threats. In particular, the antiaccess threats and multiple chokepoint straits in the region require a Corps capable of establishing and defending advanced bases near key ports and sea lanes, operating in a distributed and maneuverable manner in high-threat environments, and maintaining the tempo of its operations in the face of jamming and defeat of communications and intelligence systems, including space-based systems. While other Services will seek high-end technological solutions, the Marine Corps should pursue intelligent capabilities and doctrines more likely to be sustainable over time and in the face of future conflict. The Nation and the Corps can best maintain access, build equity, and gain insight into the region through security cooperation and engagement over the next 5 to 10 years. Near the end of that period, small wars capabilities will likely be called for again as regional powers seek to gain influence by proxy in lower end conflicts. America, however, should judiciously avoid staking her prestige on state-building projects based on the ideology of democracy promotion. Involvement and objectives should be carefully circumscribed to serve key interests and conserve power for more significant challenges on the horizon. The likelihood of significant conflict will begin to rise somewhere around 2020, growing into midcentury. The United States will face the proliferation of strategic antiaccess weapons to regional powers and precision antiship and improved surface-to-air missile systems to virtually all threat states and many nonstate actors. While China is pursuing late-generation capabilities and attempting to expand her influence across the theater, strategists recognize that they are still well behind American capabilities. For this reason, influential analysts promote an emphasis on “informationalized” and space weapons to create a nonlinear and “noncontact” threat well past the first island chain, as well as “attack capabilities for battle operations on exterior lines.” This line of thinking seeks to outflank American air capabilities by building a “powerful navy that possesses relative space superiority,”15 while attacking air bases with ballistic missiles and aircraft carriers with the recently fielded Dong-Feng-21D (CSS–5 Mod–4) “carrier killer” missile system. For full effect, these systems require integration with over-the-horizon intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems that, once combined and fielded in sufficient numbers, pose a significant threat to U.S. assets in the Pacific and may overwhelm antiballistic missile defenses through sheer numbers. While some analysts feel these threats currently fall short of their advertised capabilities, the fielding of the CSS–5 Mod–4 was “much earlier than expected,”16 giving China years to improve before conflict is likely. What’s more, China need not achieve global parity with the United States to achieve its regional goals. In the face of likely threats and threat intentions, the Corps should focus on several capabilities. The antiaccess missile threat demands the ability to distribute forces, particularly aviation assets and naval support facilities, to multiple forward locations in the case of conflict. The Corps must be prepared to secure, defend, and operate from austere advanced bases, continuing to develop operational maneuver and distributed operations capabilities in order to project and disperse combat power. This capability must include the rapid movement of aviation assets and their ability to operate on short, unimproved, and rapidly repaired runways without ponderous support requirements. The importance and channelized nature of SLOCs in the Indo-Pacific requires a focus on rapidly securing their land flanks, particularly in straits and in the face of mobile surface-to-air and antiship missiles and swarming small boat tactics with the possibility of suicide attacks. When considering such threats, the Corps and the Nation should recognize that the kamikaze threat was swarming and asymmetric, but the stakes of the conflict merited accepting it. Finally, the Corps must account for the defense of islands and straits against future, if less capable, amphibious threats. The nature of the theater and the threat demand the agility of island hopping without a prohibitive logistical tail. Today’s Corps must regain this agility in mindset, doctrine, and equipment. Distributed operations require robust fire support, especially from aviation assets that must be capable of operations in both a high threat and an austere expeditionary environment. At face value, the Corps’ focus on manned short takeoff and vertical landing platforms answers the mail, but the reality has not lived up to the photo opportunities in combat operations. Furthermore, the cost of the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) and other high-end capabilities, when used as single solutions, do not provide the ideal return on investment when the platforms’ full capabilities will only be needed in select scenarios by a limited number of aircraft if properly organized and tasked. These capabilities also make little sense as today’s “daily driver” when paying astronomical high-end flight hour costs for mundane missions. We are flying the wings off of expensive platforms, which will only become truer with the JSF. Instead of seeking only transformational (and transformationally expensive) platforms as the sole solution for the force, a mix of more mundane platforms, ranging from armed utility turboprop aircraft to armed unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), is warranted. These platforms can be transformationally equipped, integrated, and employed with the proper vision. Simpler plug-and-play platforms would give the Service greater numbers, greater flexibility, and a deterrent force that is sustainable fiscally and technologically. If air superiority or advanced integrated air defense systems are the problems, there will be joint fixed-wing assets on hand to deal with them, augmented by a small contingent of Marine JSFs. As Under Secretary of the Navy Robert O. Work points out, Marines must embrace the fact that future “theater entry missions” will be joint in nature,17 which should be a premise for reducing redundancy in procurement of high-end capabilities. In particular, the Corps should lead the way in the transition from manned to unmanned close air support (CAS) and antiair warfare platforms to the maximum extent possible. Rather than taking the Marine aviator “out of the loop,” this is removing the aviator’s physiological limitations and protection requirements to a ground station where he can have much more robust situational awareness tools. While some manned aircraft must be retained for specific and dynamic CAS situations and to help control UAS flights, armed UASs can generally provide greater return on investment. In today’s fight, the Corps could use the long dwell time of a UAS armed with precision weapons and an electrooptical sensor capable of positive identification and designation of difficult targets. In a high-intensity conflict, the absence of an onboard pilot reduces weight for more capable sensors, avionics, and countermeasures, while improving performance capabilities and increasing expendability. The Corps of the future must also be better able to operate in a communications, global positioning system, and satellite jam/defeat environment. The United States can expect denial of use of some of its “big wing” high-value airborne assets and may even see carrier-based aviation significantly impacted. Emission control measures on high-value platforms necessitated by threat sensors will likewise degrade the capabilities of our highly communications-dependent forces. Larger numbers of UASs can be part of a network of air and ground nodes that make up a command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence (C4I) cloud that would be much harder to attack with cyber, electronic, and information weapons. The Corps must make use of technology to improve the resilience of its C4I systems, but it must also live up to its doctrinal adherence to centralized command and decentralized control, fighting the micromanaging influence of and crippling dependence on technology. Networks of airborne sensors in affordable and expendable UAS platforms will also help the Corps with the antiaccess problem, finding the deadliest mobile antiship and antiair weapons. A distributed solution is needed for amphibious forces as well. While the joint high-speed vessel and littoral combat ship are a step in the right direction, assault forces will need to be further distributed to smaller, faster, and less expensive vessels that will be more able to evade and overwhelm swarming threats and shorebased systems reduced by aviation action. This incomplete and rudimentary collection of suggestions is meant only to point debate and innovation in a certain direction. While technology was highlighted, the human aspect of conflict is where Marines will continue to excel. For Marines steeped in the Middle East, study of and contact with the rest of the theater are a must. Our current robust engagement with U.S. Pacific Command partners is a good start, but many in the region are more concerned with the strategic balance of powers there than with engagement.18 Marine Corps capabilities must make up a significant portion of that balance, given the littoral and maritime challenges in the theater. Marines should seek to lead the way on military-to-military engagement of China, as well. At worst, this will illuminate the ways we need to innovate against a potential future foe. Staying on Our Feet Until the Fight Stemming the expenditure of America’s relative power advantage19 is central to sustainable deterrence, a key strategic consideration that has been little referenced in the conduct of American operations over the past decade. Stated bluntly by international relations scholar Stephen Walt: Decades from now, historians will look back and wonder how the United States allowed itself to get bogged down in a long and costly war to determine the political fate of [a] landlocked country whose entire gross national product (GNP) is about a quarter the size of the New York city budget.20 A more telling figure is that yearly U.S. military spending in Afghanistan alone is nearly 10 times that country’s GNP. While a discussion of the merits of the strategic conduct of the campaign in Afghanistan, or its lack thereof, lies beyond the scope of this article, the costs of any policy goal must be carefully weighed and minimized whenever possible. Expenditures today may have a hefty price in human life and national interests tomorrow as they erode America’s relative power and encourage others to pursue aggressive policies, and thus they must be scrutinized. Captivated by the Nation’s predominant power and seemingly benevolent ideology,21 American pundits often ignore such accounting, but the realist calculus of hard power and its expenditure is not lost on our foes. The United States willfully obliged al-Qaeda’s openly avowed intent to engage its enemy in a “bleeding war.”22 The 11 September 2001 attacks brought American forces to small arms range in the Muslim world, bogging America down in a decade of war, extracting over $1 trillion of military expenditures,23 inflicting significant attrition and overutilization of equipment, and precipitating the loss of prestige to various audiences. Today the United States is its own worst enemy, its ideology and waste driving spiraling expenditures (far too many of which have nothing to do with victory), much as President Ronald W. Reagan’s policies are believed to have done to the Soviet Union in the popular if questionable telling of the end of the Cold War. The Marine Corps must do all it can to stem the decline of American power by returning to a calculated, frugal, and zealously mission-focused expenditure of fiscal resources, manpower, and overall combat power in current conflicts. As we look toward the future, the watchword should be credible and sustainable deterrence of threats, signifying a much more diligent calculation of cost versus benefit across the range of operations, from procurement and personnel policy to doctrine and operational art. We must stay on our feet until the fight. Marine leaders should do all they can to stem the hemorrhage at their level, yet the brunt of these changes must be shouldered by commanders and staffs above the battalion level. The Marine Corps has always been the most frugal of the Services, but this role is ever harder to faithfully pursue. The reasons were brilliantly satirized by The Onion, in which Gen James N. Mattis purportedly writes that the United States will never win in Afghanistan unless U.S. Central Command gets a pinball machine. The sacrifices made by the troops require the best that Congressional money can buy. “We’re talking multi-ball, frequent jackpots, a third flipper midway up the game board . . . . ”24 The reality behind the satire is that all sorts of gadgets and programs are sold with similar pleas. Often the programs are less ridiculous, sometimes only marginally, but the free money mindset is rampant. When told that an onbase construction project in Afghanistan was unneeded, one contracting officer recently stated, “It’s not our money, it is USFOR(A) [United States Forces Afghanistan] money,” to legitimize the expenditure. Such attitudes are mortgaging the future of our Nation through decadent carelessness. Money is no small contributor to combat power and the economic health of the Nation. Nothing is more expensive than personnel. The Corps must be ruthless in rooting out wasteful personnel policies and returning Marines to the Operating Forces. It is the height of callousness to expect struggling taxpayers to fund the plethora of bands or the All Marine Chess Team when we also have our hand out for the most advanced equipment money can buy. Likewise, it is wrong to expect others to deploy again and again in their stead. Supporting Establishment billets, too, must be carefully scrutinized. Marines would rather have more trigger pullers by their side. Even in the Operating Forces, staff officers must be given a suppressant against the appetite for bloating staffs with individual augments that gut line units, impacting readiness and precluding Marines’ training, progression, and dwell time. We will not always have the luxury of gutting nondeployed units to fill staffs. If we will not be able to do so in the fight of our lives, there is no need to do it now. Coming challenges demand only the most sustainable and mission focused policies as the Nation enters what may be the most critical period of its history. The Marine Corps must serve the Nation and its own interests by leading the way in this dimension, rather than contributing to our hastened demise. Conclusion Whatever our vision of the future, it must be founded concretely upon possible geostrategic scenarios rather than abstract concepts centered on technology and tactics. This article has focused on China as the most significant threat on the horizon, but we must keep our eye on a range of others. Both Iran and North Korea possess dangerous weapons systems combined with fanaticism and erratic, if awkwardly rational, foreign policy. Iran can wreak havoc on the Persian Gulf and Strait of Hormuz, while North Korea can threaten commerce on two seas. India is currently a staunch ally, but that country could change dramatically in the coming decades. Nuclear armed and equipped with modern weaponry, India’s regional interests may clash with others as well. We are tangentially familiar with the perils of Pakistan and its confrontations with India, which become only more fearsome if Pakistan experiences a coup or state failure. Other prospects loom. A dictatorial and militaristic regime could emerge once again in the Arab Middle East or South America, and the United States could be called upon to rebut territorial aggression. In the least likely, but potentially worst scenario, a crisis-weakened European Union could fail, returning Europe to a patchwork of nations with conflicting interests. War on the continent within the next 50 years is not unthinkable. For all of these reasons, the Corps must maintain a global watch but should avoid Balkanizing itself into regional enclaves. Language and culture are important, but culture changes as society responds to changing economic situations, and ideological viewpoints of culture poison the cold calculus required in war. This century will witness some of the greatest socioeconomic transformations in history, and we must have the physical and intellectual agility to deal with change across the globe. When the Nation truly needs us, we will all be going to the same place, wherever that may be.



==Warner Robins== 
===plan=== 

The United States federal government should employ orbital capsules for Small Unit Space Transportation and Insertion capabilities, incorporating the Scorpius launch system.

===1AC – solvency=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">====Contention 1:</span>** solvency====


Orbital capsules make SUSTAIN cheap and feasible
Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ~’9<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~~[John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. "Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch". 7</span>^^th^^<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. [[http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf-http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]]~~]//</span>
//For SUSTAIN, a man-carrying capsule decelerates aerodynamically during re-entry//
//AND//
//responsive space launch vehicle series with remaining development costs spread between several programs.//


//Multiple factors hinder the US~’s ability to respond quickly to global events in the status quo.//
//Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ~’8<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (pp 12, [[http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport-http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]])</span>//
//3.1 SOCOM Capability Gaps 3.1.1 Functional Concept Component//
//AND//
//support insertion of SOP as a viable course of action for the JFC.//

//Frequency and tempo of crises are increasing and speed is becoming more important. SUSTAIN is key.//
//Williams, ~’7<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Shon P., Major, USAF ~~["Wild Ride: Launching Troops Through Space for Rapid Precision Global Intervention". April. Blue Horizons Paper, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529%26Location=U2%26doc=GetTRDoc.pdf-http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529%26Location=U2%26doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]~~]</span>//
//One could easily argue that the stated USMC space mobility requirement begs the question,//
//AND//
//the desired effects. The reader will see this concept throughout this paper.//


//SUSTAIN works logistically//
//Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ~’8<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (pp 10, [[http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport-http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]])</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2 4 Support and Sustainment Concepts (DOTMLPF)</span>//
//Doctrine. The SUSTAIN capability is necessarily designed around what is known today of basic//
//AND//
//matured in operations by USSOCOM, could expand to have broad general utility.//


//Launch systems have already been developed – minimal further investment required//
//Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ~’9<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~~[John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. "Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch". 7</span>^^th^^<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. [[http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf-http:</span>//responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]]~~]
This quantity of development funding is almost certainly beyond current US political and economic
AND
commercial suborbital sounding rockets and for orbital launchers 7,8,9.




===1AC – terror=== 

Contention 2: terrorism


SUSTAIN is key to fight terrorism– interception of high value targets, reconnaissance, PSYOPS, and foreign stabilization
Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ~’8<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (pp 21, [[http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport-http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]])</span>
United States Special Operations Command~’s (USSOCOM) is the principle intended user of the
AND
and limit the adverse impact of military operations on civilian populations and resources.



Terrorists are fanatics – new terrorism will be apocalyptic not political
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter </span>Laqueur, ~’3<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – historian, has taught at Brandeis University, Georgetown, Harvard, University of Chicago, Tel Aviv and John Hopkins university; expert in terrorism and one of the founders of its study; holocaust survivor ~~[No end to war: terrorism in the twenty-first century. Google Books~~]</span>
It was only to be expected that there should be voices arguing that the events
AND
fiction scenario of the mad scientist taking vengeance on society could become reality.


Scenario 1:

Nuclear terrorism is coming- all obstacles can be overcome
Bunn et al May, 2011<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism, Harvard University~’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University~’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Colonel Yuri Morozov Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University~’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy. Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University~’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University~’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf-http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment ENG 27 May 2011.pdf]])</span>
Nuclear terrorism is a real and urgent threat. Urgent actions are required to reduce
AND
the intention to acquire and use nuclear weapons is as strong as ever.



Any nuclear terrorism will cause extinction
Toon et al 7 – Owen B. Toon, chair of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at CU-Boulder, et al., April 19, 2007, "Atmospheric effects and societal consequences of regional scale nuclear conflicts and acts of individual nuclear terrorism," online: [[http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/acp-7-1973-2007.pdf-http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/acp-7-1973-2007.pdf]]
To an increasing extent, people are congregating in the world~’s great urban centers,
AND
should be carried out as well for the present scenarios and physical outcomes.


SECOND-

Recent technology advances make bioterror likely
Garrett, 12/15/11 ~~[Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola epidemic in what was then Zaire, and author of I Heard the Sirens Scream: How Americans Responded to the 9/11 and Anthrax Attacks. "The Bioterrorist Next Door". [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/12/14/the_bioterrorist_next_door?page=0,0-http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/12/14/the_bioterrorist_next_door?page=0,0]]~~]
In September, an amiable Dutchman stepped up to the podium at a scientific meeting
AND
post-2001 anthrax-inspired proliferation of high-security biological laboratories?


Causes extinction – defense doesn~’t apply
Kellman 8 (Barry Kellman is the director of the International Weapons Control Center, "Bioviolence: A Growing Threat", The Futurist, May-June 2008, http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf)
A looming danger confronts the world—the threat of bioviolence. It is a
AND
thing in response to these challenges could have dire consequences for all humanity.


Any WMD terrorist attack results in nuclear great power war
Ayson 10,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert, "After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects," </span>Studies in Conflict %26 Terrorism<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a
AND
be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.


===1AC – crisis management=== 

Contention 3: crisis management

The plan is key to it

First, early military response
Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ~’8<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (pp 5, [[http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport-http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]])</span>
The expeditionary nature of Joint SOP will allow for tailorable force packages capable of conducting
AND
mitigate the need for an escalation of hostilities at an increased national cost.


Speed matters, not size
D<span style="font-size: 8pt;">efense </span>T<span style="font-size: 8pt;">echnology </span>I<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nternatonal, ~’</span>5<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~~[September/October. Defense magazine edited by Sharon Weinberger, a national security writer focusing on science and technology issues. pp 21. [[http://www.nxtbook.com/fx/books/mh/awdti0905/-http://www.nxtbook.com/fx/books/mh/awdti0905/]]~~]</span>
"The earlier you intervene in a crisis . . . the lower the national
AND
, or, even better, set the stage to avoid major conflict.



Second, diplomatic management
Space Transportation Tech<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nology</span> Roadmap, ~’10<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO ~~[October 21, [[http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf-http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]]~~] </span>
4.3.4 Other Government Space Transportation Needs o 4.3.
AND
however the strategic value of such meetings could certainly be of similar significance.


Third, quick victories
Space Transportation Tech<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nology</span> Roadmap, ~’10<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO ~~[October 21, [[http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf-http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]]~~] </span>
4.2.4.28.1 In order to justify the cost
AND
the savings resulting from crises averted should make it well worth the investment.


American rapid response capabilities are crucial to credibly deter aggression
Gerson, ~’9<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation ~~["Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age". Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf~~]</span>
This article seeks to expand the current debate about the role and utility of conventional
AND
regimes from believing that nuclear possession provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion.


Agile, global military reach is key to contain aggressors and manage power transitions – every hotspot is at risk ~~[deters nuclear aggression by rising states like China, Russia, North Korea, Iran, and India, contains a Pakistani state collapse, and prevents European, South American, and Middle Eastern war – global escalation over Indo-Pacific trade routes is likely~~]
Major Munson, ~’11<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition ~~[" Back to Our Roots: Marines~’ future in the Indo-Pacific". January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots~~]</span>
A decade of war has focused Marines~’ minds on insurgency, culture, and the
AND
will all be going to the same place, wherever that may be.



=Negative= 
==Neg Strats== 
===Emory=== 
====Rd. 2==== 
Against Cypress Bay - Disabilities aff
1NC:
Fwk
Cap K
50 States CP
Immigration

2NR was case D and immigration

====Rd. 3==== 
Against Houston County - Megaports aff w/ Terror and Econ advantages
1NC:
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Heidegger</span>
Immigration
Privatization CP
Impact turned terror
2NR: CP w/ impact turn net benefit

====Rd. 5==== 
Against North Atlanta - Port Security aff w/ Terror and Econ advantages
T -must be physical (plan gave loan guarantees)
Security K
Immigration
Privatization CP
2NR: CP and immigration DA

===Warner Robins=== 
(only debated 1 neg round b/c we had a bye rd 1)
====Rd 3==== 
Against Westminster Prep - Inland Waterways with trade adv (CCP collapse, bio-d and free trade imps)

1NC:
Heidegger - 2NC
Inflation DA - 2NR
Case D - 2NR
Impact turned heg add-on in 2NC - 2NR



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]