[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Glenbrooks 1AC== 
===Inherency=== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">We don’t have the naval capabilities to adequately respond to crisis</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Allen</span>**, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">01</span>

Richard Allen, retired… longer be sustained.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The navy’s role has expanded – but it’s being crippled by a lack of resources</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Whiteneck, et al. ‘10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;"> (Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, March 2010, p.4-21, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;">) </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;">For the past…naval BMD assets</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

===<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;">Economy</span>=== 

**Economy is on the verge of a crash – no resiliency**

Christopher S. **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rugaber</span>**, staff writer, Bloomberg, 6-1-**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2012</span>**, “US economy added 69K jobs in May, fewest in a year”, Bloomberg Businessweek, http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-06/D9V4CNRO0.htm



The U.S. economy…the global economy.



**U.S economy rapidly declining – laundry list of reasons warranted**

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Jamrisko and Chandra 11/15</span>**/12 <span style="font-size: 12px;">(Michelle Jamrisko and Shobhana Chandra writers for Bloomberg News, “Jobless Claims Jump in U.S. While Sandy Hurts Factories: Economy”, http://www.sfgate.com/business/bloomberg/article/Jobless-Claims-Jump-in-U-S-While-Sandy-Hurts-4040843.php//jd)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nov. 15 (Bloomberg) …. in New York </span>



**Econ decline causes war**

Zalmay **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Khalilzad,</span>** was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, 2-8-**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011</span>**, "The Econom and National Security" www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024



Today, economic…and of multi-polarity**__.__**




**Plan solves - Government spending stimulates econ**

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Krugman, Nobel Prize Economics and Professor of Economics and Int. Affairs Princeton, 12</span>**

[Paul, __End This Depression Now__, 2012, p. ]



In the…into this depression



**Plan immediately stimulates through the economy**

James **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cypher</span>**, Professor of Economics at CSU-Fresno, Dollars & Sense, July-August, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2002</span>**, p19(4)



The CEP attempts…otherwise erratic movement.

===Navy=== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Naval power prevents great power conflicts and is key to heg</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Helprin 11</span>**( MARK HELPRIN, a senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter's Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in America's seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans, WSJ
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html/|http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html//]]</span>**//__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> A rad G) </span>__//**

Separated by the…and unrestrained adventurism.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Scenario 1 is war,</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lack of US naval heg will result in global war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kagan ‘7</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;"> (Robert Kagan, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7-19-2007,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;">) </span>

This is a…an easier path.

**Scenarios 2 is Iran,**

**Declining sea power means we lose access to the Strait of Hormuz**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dyer, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - journalist and former intelligence analyst, served internationally for US Naval Intelligence from 1983 to 2004 (J.E, “Naval Decline: It Starts with the Small Stuff,” 5-12-2010, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

Each of the…lots of them.

**Ensures escalation of conflict – draws the US in conventionally and prompts Iranian aggression**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Talmadge, 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Caitlin Talmadge, doctoral candidate in political science at the Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, former fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, “Closing Time: Assessing the Iranian Threat to the Strait of Hormuz,” International Security, 33(1), Summer 2008, p.115-116, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge%20article.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

The United States…U.S. force posture

**WW3**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Steinberg, 7</span>** (Jeffrey, The People’s Voice, <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/cgi-bin/blogs/voices.php/2007/10/04/cheney_s_ouster_may_be_last_chance_to_st]]</span>)
On Sept. 25…World War III has begun."

**Scenario 3 is China**

**Decreasing American naval presence leads to Chinese expansionism – that causes a Chinese arms race and Asian instability**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Helprin 11</span>**(Mark Helprin, senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter's Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), “The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in America's seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans”, WSJ
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html //eR)//
//And yet … it does not.//

//**Absent increased American naval intervention, that leads to escalatory regional war which draws in the US**//
//**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Klein 8/24</span>** (Brian Klein, Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow, ex-US diplomat to China and India, writer and global strategist focusing on macroeconomic, geopolitical, and security issues, “Former US Diplomat: The Next Battlefield Will Be The South China Sea” http://www.businessinsider.com/the-south-china-sea-sparks-arms-race-2012-8, 8-24-12// eR)
Tensions are rising …maintain the peace.

**That causes nuclear war and extinction**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">**Straits Times 2k** </span>(Singapore, June 25, 2000, No one gains in war over Taiwan //eR)
The US estimates …American way of thinking.

===Airpower=== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Air mobility __vital internal link__ to overall air power- its declining now</span>**
Richard J. **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hazdra, </span>**Major, USAF, Fairchild Paper, Air University Press August **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2001</span>** http://www.au.af.mil/au/aul/aupress/fairchild_papers/Hazdra/Hazdra.pdf

Since airlift was…national security requirements.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Scenario 1 is HEG</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Airpower is vital to maintain U.S. hegemony</span>**
Major William K. **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lewis</span>**, senior pilot in the T-37, T-38, AT-38 and F-15 Eagle, Distinguished Graduate of the Squadron Officer School and the Air Command and Staff College, and graduate of the School of Advanced Airpower Studies, June **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2002</span>**, “UCAV – THE NEXT GENERATION AIR-SUPERIORITY FIGHTER?”, school of advanced airpower studies @ Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama.

Air superiority …the foreseeable future<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Collapse of heg causes great power transition wars, destroys democratic peace, and causes economic collapse – Apolarity results – can’t solve any world problems </span>**
Bradley **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Thayer</span>**, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, December, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2006</span>**, "In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, Lexis.

Retrenchment proponents…the world's ills.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Scenario 2 is Terrorism.</span>**

**US air power is key to fighting terrorism**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rand 03</span>**, RAND Project Air Force, “Annual Report 2003”, 2003, http://www.rand.org/pubs/annual_reports/2005/AR7089.pdf //ER

The war on…and other locations.

**That prevents nuclear war**
Chuck **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Freilich</span>**, Senior Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, 4-**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2010, “The Armageddon Scenario: Israel and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism” http://www.biu.ac.il/Besa/MSPS84.pdf //ER</span>**

There is little…more nuclear terrorism.

===Solvency=== 
**Plan solves, carriers are key to sea power, air mobility, and airpower overall**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Allen</span>**, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">01</span>**
Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob

Most fundamentally, naval …in other regions.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nothing can challenge a US carrier, more carriers are the only way to preserve hegemony – all other solutions fail</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Allen</span>**, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">01</span>**
Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob

Size and Mobility…United States of America.


**Aircraft carriers key to US power projection**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rubel 11</span>**(Professor Robert Rubel is Dean of Naval Warfare Studies at the Naval War College. “The Future of Aircraft Carriers”, Naval War College Review, Autumn 2011, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers]]</span> EG)

Geopolitical Chess Piece… disconnect is magnified.

**Aircraft carriers key to Hegemony-power projection, airpower, and humanitarian intervention**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">US Navy 12</span>**(“Aircraft Carriers – CVN”, Fact File, January 6, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200&tid=200&ct=4]]</span> EG)

Description Aircraft carriers…replace USS Enterprise (CVN 65).



=Negative= 
==Glenbrooks== 
===Round 2 (ITS)=== 
T Infrastructure
Fiscal Cliff DA
States CP
===Round 3 (NIB)=== 
T Investment
Cap K
Fiscal Cliff DA
States CP
===Round 6 (Resiliant Transportation Infrastructure)=== 
T Maintenence
USFG PIC
Fiscal Cliff DA