JAN -FEB Aff: 

<span class="Underline">The plan text is that: Rehabilitation ought to be valued over retribution in the United States Criminal Justice System by federally implementing The Forgiveness Project in order to determine if they are fit to reenter society Smith clarifies:</span>
<span class="Underline">Smith 13'-Alexander Mcall Smith, http://theforgivenessproject.com/about-us/-</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**__<span style="color: #4f5151; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Forgiveness Project... ...</span>__**<span style="color: #4f5151; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **__<span style="color: #993333;">[[http://theforgivenessproject.com/news/|running training programmes]]</span>.__**</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">This also has been tested in the United States they clarify:</span>

<span class="Underline">Smith 13'-Alexander Mcall Smith, http://theforgivenessproject.com/usa/-</span>
<span style="color: #4f5151; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Images of Forgiveness ... ...</span>**__<span style="color: #4f5151; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> journey of hope</span>__**<span style="color: #4f5151; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">The resolution asks for a comparison of which response to criminal behavior is best in the criminal justice system **Adams** clarifies retribution:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Adams 08'-Joseph, Retribution Requires Rehabilitation, PhD in Philosophy @ GSU, http://digitalarchive.gsu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1034&context=philosophy_theses-</span>
<span class="Underline">**Retributivists usually argue ...**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> achieved (Moore, 179).</span>

<span class="Underline">Any negative claim to deterrence based impacts don't actually value retribution because it's concerned solely with the distribution of just deserts. **Adams** clarifies rehabilitation:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Before we begin,... avoid more punishment</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">The negative must defend that retributive punishment ought to be valued over rehabilitation</span>



Part 1: Ontological communitarianism defines our values. 

**Haste:**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">[[mailto:hssheh@bath.ac.uk|Helen Haste, Ph.D.]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Copyright © 1998, Helen Haste</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">If social interaction....</span> **__historical context.__**

<span class="Underline">All guides to action are only relevant in so far that they guide behavior within the community otherwise we would have no reason to prohibit action in so far that they do not affect others, human thought does not occur in a vacuum rather it is formed and responds to those around us making it the basis of personal identity and ontology. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">MacIntyre</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">[“After Virtue,” Alisdair Macintyre.]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We all</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">approach... ....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> its moral particularity</span>

<span class="Underline">Thus all ontological conceptions are communitarian in nature. This comes prior to other meta-ethical concerns and acting on them is the only way we can consistently follow through ethical concerns making it obligatory prior:</span>

**Dillon**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Michael Dillon, Political Science. Lancaster, 1999, Moral Spaces, ed. Campbell and Shapiro, p. 97-8]</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Heirs to all.. ... of decision making.</span>

<span class="Underline">Thus the meta-standard is **communitarianism.**</span>

<span class="Underline">Part 2 The ethic</span>

<span class="Underline">An ethic of forgiveness is the only way to recognize our shared humanity.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Holmgren**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We can regard ... </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> attitude of</span> **__compassion__**.

<span class="Underline">Recognizing the equal status of persons regardless of their acts and past behavior is the only way to recognize and strengthen the communal bonds that define us all because we are all capable of error forgiveness is the only way to recognize the human solidarity, **Holmgren 2** provides three additional warrants.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is much.. ..have also brought. </span>

The genetic lottery shows that all human beings are capable of wrongdoing under the right circumstances to reject this is to reject our common humanity only forgiveness recognizes this:

**Garrad**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(In Defense of Unconditional Forgiveness, Eve Garrad, //Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society//, New Series, Vol. 103, (2003), pp. 39-60 :</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Some very obvious ... .</span> **__could say it truly__**.<span style="font-size: 9pt;">13</span>


<span class="Underline">Thus the standard is **consistency with the ethic of forgiveness.**</span>

<span class="Underline">Part 3: **Offense**</span>

<span class="Underline">First, </span>Rehabilitation is most consistent with the ethic of forgiveness. **Raynor** and **Robinson** write:
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Raynor 09' -Peter, Gwen, Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice @ Swansea U, Senior Lecturer in Criminal Justice @ Sheffield U, Why Help Offenders? Arguments for Rehabilitation as a Penal Strategy, European ... ...</span>**__and potential contribution.__**

<span class="Underline">Second, Retributivism cannot account for the ethic of forgiveness. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Watkins**:</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The second commitment ... ...</span> **__devoid of justification.__**

Retributive punishment ignores the criminals identity within the community and instead characterizes them as passive recipients of punishment.. **Weaver** adds:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Theoretical Criminology 2009 13: 9 Beth Weaver Communicative punishment as a penal approach to supporting desistance</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Punishment as a ... ... the wider community.</span>