[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
I affirm the resolution

I value morality as it is specified in the resolution by the word “ought”.
Human rights are important for 6 reasons
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span>**__Pogge__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.(Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale University), The Journal of Ethics,Vol 4. “The International Significance of Human Rights”, 20</span>**__00__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The concept of a human rights has certain central elements that any plausible understanding of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to some particular epoch, culture, religion, moral tradition or philosophy.</span>

They are also in our best interests.
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fagan</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Andrew</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "Human Rights." Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. (20</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">05</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">), MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have established that human rights originate as moral rightsbut that the successful passage</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">rights, whether they be of the claim right or liberty right variety.</span>

We have a duty to protect human rights.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">David </span>**__Miller__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Nuffield College, Oxford, “The Responsibility to Protect Human Rights”, Memo for the workshop on Global Governance, Princeton University, MM</span>**__explains:__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is a truth widely if not yet universally acknowledged that the protection of human </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">others that had failed to happen, such as, notoriously, in Rwanda</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus, the standard is protecting fundamental human rights</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention1 – Due process is essential</span>

First, Due Process is fundamental because it ensures fairness.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">James W. </span>**__Nickel07,__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Professor of Philosophy and Law at the University of Miami, “Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies”, European Journal of Legal Studies, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fairness considerations play a central role in justifying DPRs - and in supporting theidea that </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">severely unfair treatment plays a large role in supporting the universality of DPRs.</span>

Second, Without Due Process, we go down a slippery slope.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amos N. </span>**__Guiora10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, University of Utah, “Due Process and Counterterrorism”, Emory International Law Review, Vol.26, 2012, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Counterterrorism—like terrorism—is a reality. Nations have the absolute obligation and </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">guilt is essential to effective ¶ counterterrorism predicated on the rule of law.</span>

The slippery slope is harmful because it is a chain of consequences. Not giving accused terrorists due process, is the first step into these consequences.

The burden is on the negative to prove that due process is **not an essential** human right.

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2 – Nationality and Human Rights</span>

First, We should respect due process rights regardless of nationality.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cole 03</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Georgetown University Law Professor], “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?” , Georgetown Law The Scholarly Commons, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment Due Process Clauses should also apply equally to citizens and </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">generally should not vary de- pending on the nationality of the individual.</span>

Second, the constitution states that all persons are guaranteed equal due process.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cole2 03</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Georgetown University Law Professor], “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?” , Georgetown Law The Scholarly Commons, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Constitution does distinguish in some respects between the rights of citizens and non-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Fourth Amendment's protection of privacy and liberty apply to "the people."</span>

The burden is on the negative to prove that citizens and non-citizens ought to hold different human rights.

Contention 3 – Legitimacy
A fair proceeding would benefit detainees and if we don’t extend to them due process rights, the world community leans on the accused terrorist’s side.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span>**__Welsh 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [has a J.D. from the University of Utah. He is currently a doctoral student in the Eller School of Business at the University of Arizona where his research focuses on organizational fairness and ethics.], “Procedural Justice Post-9/11: The Effects of Procedurally </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Unfair Treatment of Detainees on Perceptions of Global Legitimacy”, 20</span>**__11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recent research highlights two reasons why procedural justice ¶ may be particularly important in the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ about how these rules could be implemented in a DTC model. ¶ </span>

This means that the public is most likely to side with the government…This increases its legitimacy.

Due Process increases legitimacy because it reduces the risk of mistakes.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Hamdi v. Rumsfeld: Judicious Balancing at the Intersection of the Executive's Power to Detain and the Citizen-Detainee's Right to Due Process”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> James B. </span>**__Anderson__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-) , Vol. 95, No. 3 (Spring, 20</span>**__05__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">), pp. 689-724, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These two arbitrary suggestions are mentioned </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> together </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in a </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> single, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of ¶ fairness and accuracy which due process was designed ¶ to protect.</span>

AND - Legitimacy increases international co-operation, which helps fight the war on terrorism
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cole3 03</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Georgetown University Law Professor], “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?” , Georgetown Law The Scholarly Commons, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Legitimacy is essential at the international level as well. As September 11 illustrated, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the United States' stance on the Guantanamo prisoners reflects precisely that concern.</span>

[IF TIME:] We need legitimacy to fight the war on terrorism for national support.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span>**__Welsh2__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [has a J.D. from the University of Utah. He is currently a doctoral student in the Eller School of Business at the University of Arizona where his research focuses on organizational fairness and ethics.], “Procedural Justice Post-9/11: The Effects of Procedurally </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Unfair Treatment of Detainees on Perceptions of Global Legitimacy”, 20</span>**__11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the context of the War on Terror, legitimacy is the critical ¶ missing </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">63¶ based, decisions instead of political decisions,” the Court maintained. </span>

Thus I affirm
==Negative== 
I negate the resolution.

I value morality. Morality is about what is right and wrong, and links to the resolution because of the word “ought”.
Consequentalism is about maximizing aggregate goodness. It is the best moral theory

Any moral theory must have simplicity, power, and coherence. Meeting this criteria is necessary to understand the moral realm.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The Limits of Morality” (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1989) by Shelly </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan</span>__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This need for explanation in moral theory cannot be overemphasized. We want our moral </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">find that a principle which distinguished according to skin color yielded intuitively correct.</span>

Non-consequentialism is non-unified and at odds with non-moral rationality.

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Phillip </span>**Pettit** <span style="font-family: Calibri;">[Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are at least three respects in which consequentialism scores on simplicity. The first </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">which is without analogue in the non-moral area of practical rationality.</span>

Thus, <span style="color: #222222;">a moral theory requires consistency with consequentialism, which makes the only logical standard, maximizing expected well-being.</span>

Contention 1 – Due Process increases collateral damage

First, Capturing a terrorist is difficult and increases collateral damage:
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Peter M. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cullen</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [</span><span style="background-color: #fffbfc; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">Colonel Peter M. Cullen, USA, is the Staff Judge Advocate, 101st Airborne Division</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="background-color: #fffbfc; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;"> ] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">“The Role of Targeted Killing in the Campaign Against Terror.” March 2007. USAWC Strategy Research Project.2007, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These concerns highlight some of the dilemmas that terrorism [include are] presents any </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">continue to kill innocent civilians – is surely the least attractive moral option.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Second, giving a terrorist a trial discloses valuable information, which could help a terrorist pursue a successful attack against the US.</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael B. </span>**__Mukasey09__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Michael Bernard Mukasey is a lawyer and former judge who served as the 81st Attorney General of the United States. )“Civilian Courts Are No Place to Try Terrorists”, published by the Wall Street Journal on October 19th, 2009, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, in the multidefendant terrorism prosecution of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman and others that </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">aware of him, but also who else the government was aware of.</span>

The neg has given two reasons as to why due process actually increases the amount of lives lost and the success of a terrorist organization.

The burden is on the aff to prove that the due process doesn’t increase the amount of deaths.

Contention 2 – Targeted Killing [maybe…]
The US currently uses Targeted Killing

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">This is mutually exclusive with due process</span>** because in order for someone to have due process, they must be alive, and they cannot be with targeted killing

Targeted killing is good because it is the BEST WAY to combat terrorism

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel</span> __Statman 09__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, moral philosopher at the University of Haifa in Israel, “Targeting Killing”, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, in the war against terror, just as in the war against the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">individuals will gradually make it more difficult for the terror machinery to function. </span>

TK Disad [maybe... read without contention 2]
----
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A.</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Uniqueness:</span>**
The United States currently uses targeted killing

The New York Times
Sept. 26, 2012 “Predator Drones and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs)”, MM

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Obama administration has argued that the drone strikes against <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/a/al_qaeda/index.html?inline=nyt-org|Al Qaeda]]</span> and its allies </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tracks the strikes as part of its focus on the war on terror.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12.5pt;">Johnston and Sarbahi show statistics.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The Impact of U.S. Drone Strikes on Terrorism in Pakistan”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Patrick B. Johnston[Former Research Fellow, International Security Program, 2010–2011: International Security Program/Intrastate Conflict Program, 2009–2010.] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Anoop Sarbahi [Anoop Sarbahi received his PhD in political science from the University of California, Los Angeles in 2011]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> February 25, 20</span>**__12__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Drone strikes were used relatively sparingly during the campaign’s early years–only nine drone </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">contrast, 46 (32%) strikes had been conducted in South Waziristan.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B.</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Link:</span>**
The affirmative advocates due process whereas I advocate targeted killing. Due Process is mutually exclusive with targeted killing. This is because if someone were to have due process, they must be alive, but if they were killed, cannot have due process.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C.</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Impact:</span>**
Targeted killing is the best way to combat terrorism.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel</span> __Statman 09__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, moral philosopher at the University of Haifa in Israel, “Targeting Killing”, MM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, in the war against terror, just as in the war against the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">individuals will gradually make it more difficult for the terror machinery to function. </span>

Targeted killings have caused terrorist leaders to take refuge in larger cities,
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">5-1-20</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Political Science, Department of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ￼”Hellfire and Grey Drones: An Empirical Examination of the Effectiveness of Targeted Killings”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Matthew A. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Morehouse 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> University of Nebraska - Lincoln</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There has been some evidence that the U.S. targeted killing program </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">since the organizations were presented as unitary actors in the article above</span>.

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
I affirm
I offer the following definition of universal health care.
Donald Hirasuna 07, [Legislative Analyst] ¶ September 2007¶ “Universal Health Coverage: ¶ An Economist’s Perspective”¶ INFORMATION BRIEF ¶ Research Department ¶ Minnesota House of Representatives, MM

For purposes of this brief, universal health care is defined as health care provided
AND
adopt almost any health care system, not only single-payer plans.
AND - Medical ethics are moral principles that apply values to the practice of medicine.

Medical Ethics are justifiable for 6 reasons.
Elsayed09, Dya Eldin M. [Assistant Professor, Department of Community Medicine, faculty of Medicine, University of Al-Zaiem Al-Azhari], and Rabaa Elamin M. Ahmed. "Medical Ethics: What is it? Why is it important?." Sudanese Journal of Public Health 4.2 (2009): 284-287. MM

Resnik cited five ways to address this question ¶ regarding research ethics.¶ 12
AND
medicine and clarifying norms for improving ¶ relationships between patients and physicians.

I value the oldest form of medical ethics – Aristotlean ethics.
First, Every action aims at a good, which is a preferable end.
Aristotle [Aristotle was a Greek philosopher and polymath, a student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great.], “Nicomachean Ethics”, trans. Martin Ostwald (New York: Macmillan, 1962), 56, 350 B.C.E., MM

EVERY art and every inquiry, and similarly every action and pursuit, is thought
AND
from the activities, as in the case of the sciences just mentioned.

Second, The purpose of society is to protect human flourishing.
Christopher P. Vogt, Maximizing Human Potential: Capabilities Theory and the Professional Work Environment, Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 58, No. 1/3, Promoting Business Ethics (Apr. - May, 2005), pp. 111-123, GB

For Aristotle, the question of what constitutes good social order cannot be separated from
AND
for a richer description of human flourishing and a method for discerning it.
Sub-point A. Human flourishing is an objective good.
Rasmussen, Douglas B. "Human flourishing and the appeal to human nature." Social Philosophy and Policy 16.01 (1999): 1-43, MM

1. Human flourishing is an objective good. In terms similar to those¶
AND
not depend on such agency for its status as the¶ ultimate end.
Subpoint B. Human flourishing is the ultimate end and a means.
Rasmussen2, Douglas B. "Human flourishing and the appeal to human nature." Social Philosophy and Policy 16.01 (1999): 1-43, MM

2. Human flourishing is the ultimate end of human conduct, but it is
AND
for its own sake and still be a¶ constituent of human flourishing.

Thus the standard is protecting human flourishing.

Universal health care reduces illness, thus insuring human flourishing.
Jennifer Prah Ruger 07 ¶ [Yale University - School of Medicine]¶ “The Moral Foundations of Health Insurance”¶ Quarterly Journal of Medicine, Vol. 100, No. 1, pp. 53-57, January 2007, MM

From this perspective, the moral foundations of health insurance build on the Aristotelian concept
AND
-quality,22,23 medically necessary and appropriate health care.6

AND - Health Care is important for human flourishing, economics, and agency.
Jennifer Prah Ruger 03 ¶ [Yale University - School of Medicine]¶ “Health and Development”¶ The Lancet, Vol. 362, August 30, 2003, MM

First, this alternative viewpoint appeals to a particular vision of the good life that
AND
both health and economic development as indeed they are important for each other.

The burden is on the negative to prove that not providing universal health care better protects human flourishing.

There are costs of not achieving universal health care.
Kao-Ping Chua [AMSA Jack Rutledge Fellow 2005-2006] Updated by Flávio Casoy¶ [AMSA Jack Rutledge Fellow 2007-2008]¶ “The Case for Universal Health Care”, 2008, MM

What are the costs of not achieving universal health care? In a landmark six
AND
start-ups to offset the loss of jobs that are moving offshore.

All of these costs to not achieving universal health care reduce human flourishing.

Thus I affirm.
==Negative== 
I negate
Medical ethics are moral principles that apply values to the practice of medicine.

AND – Medical Ethics are justifiable for 6 reasons.
Elsayed09, Dya Eldin M. [Assistant Professor, Department of Community Medicine, faculty of Medicine, University of Al-Zaiem Al-Azhari], and Rabaa Elamin M. Ahmed. "Medical Ethics: What is it? Why is it important?." Sudanese Journal of Public Health 4.2 (2009): 284-287. MM

Resnik cited five ways to address this question ¶ regarding research ethics.¶ 12¶
AND
¶ medicine and clarifying norms for improving ¶ relationships between patients and physicians.

Gillon defines autonomy.
Raanan Gillon 85¶ “Autonomy And The Principle Of Respect For Autonomy”¶ British Medical Journal (Clinical Research Edition) , Vol. 290, No. 6484 (Jun. 15, 1985), pp. 1806-1808, MM

The ¶ philosopher ¶ Professor ¶ John Benson, ¶ in a ¶ stimulating paper
AND
is a characteristic ¶ possessed by people ¶ in ¶ varying ¶ degrees.
We should respect patient autonomy.
Sherwin 00, Susan. "A relational approach to autonomy in health care." Readings in health care ethics (2000): 57-68. MM

It is not hard to explain the prominence of the principle of respect for patient
AND
patient preferences for the presumed benefit of the patient) when prescribing treatment.

Thus the standard is protecting patient autonomy.
First, there is no government agency that can effectively handle health care.
Joe Messerli 06 [graduated from University of Wisconsin-Whitewater in '96 with degrees in Finance and Management Computer System. He has since accumulated over 240 college credits in various fields including psychology, history, law, medicine, economics, and accounting.] “Should the Government Provide Free Universal Health Care for All Americans?” 2006, MM

There isn't a single government agency or division that runs efficiently; do we really
AND
pages and barely scratches the surface for how the law will be implemented!

Second, the US health system is a government takeover
David Gratzer09 (a physician, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute], “Takeover of Health Care will be a Disaster”, Encounter Books, Nov 10, 2009, MM

If Barak Obama has his way, the American health care system is headed for
AND
why we should be afraid, very afraid, of the possible outcome.

Third, the US as an actor would take away patient autonomy. This is because the US will force upon individuals certain health organizations, which will limit patient choice, violating their autonomy.
The burden is on the affirmative to prove that the actor in the resolution will not violate patient autonomy.
First, a national health care systems limit choice.
T.R. Reid 10 [Princeton University, American reporter] “The Healing of America: A Global Quest for Better, Cheaper, and Fairer Health Care” Penguin, August 31st, 2010, MM

Some national health care systems limit a patient’s choices – of doctors, hospitals,
AND
notice. That’s a wider choice of health insurance than any American has.
AND - We can achieve an ideal health system by giving individuals choice.
John C. Goodman91 [Task Force], 1991, “An Agenda for Solving America’s Health Crisis”, from The Task Force Report, MM

We cannot move from the current health care system to an ideal system overnight.
AND
of¶ Dreams: “If you build it, they will come.”

Protecting autonomy ensures individual choice.
Second, It is more satisfying to choose.
Thomas Rice01 [UCLA School of Public Heath, Los Angeles, USA] “Individual autonomy and state involvement¶ in health care”, Journal of Medical Ethics 2001;27:240–244, MM

The second reason for believing that consumers¶ should have autonomy–in health care
AND
are very personal, individualistic, and can be of¶ considerable import.
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]