===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AFF</span>=== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan: </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States federal government should dredge, make infrastructure improvements, and construct CVN nuclear propulsion plant maintenance facilities at Naval Station Mayport for the purpose of homeporting CVN aircraft carriers.</span>==== 


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 1 Inherency </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">No funding for home porting an aircraft carrier in Mayport, Florida now—Disads are non-unique because the Navy remains committed</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">O’Rourke 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]]</span>

The Navy’s proposed FY2013 budget defers the Navy’s plan to homeport a nuclear-powered
AND
coast. This is a deferral at this time due to fiscal constraints.”

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Advantage 1 CVN Asset protection</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Strategic dispersal is key to protect CVN assets-- Norfolk is the only port in the US capable of CVN refueling—A made or natural catastrophic event at Norfolk means the US has no aircraft carrier force</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">O’Rourke 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]]</span>
The strategic dispersal of surface ships, especially vital strategic assets such as CVNs that
AND
to aircraft carriers and associated maintenance and repair infrastructure supporting those crucial assets.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norfolk is the most vulnerable port in the country – dispersing forces to Mayport breaks up assets and ensures continued force strength</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Crenshaw 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ander, Representative in Florida, “The Case For Two East Coast Homeports Is "Overwhelming And Simply Irrefutable"”, December 7,</span>
Recently, the Navy announced a decision to homeport a nuclear carrier at Naval Station
AND
have. Those are staggering differences, and further affirm the Navy's decision.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Terrorist attacks at the Norfolk port is the most likely scenario for attack—technology can’t predict it </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kimberlin 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Joanne, The Virginian-Pilot, “Millions of containers. Now, find the 'Boom Box.'”, February 5, </span>[[http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box|__http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box__]]
They look harmless enough. And, so far, they have been – just
AND
import data, hoping to stop a boom box before it ever gets here
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nuke Terror Likely and Retaliation causes global nuclear war</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hellman 08</span> (Martin Hellman, Professor Engineering Stanford, Spring 2008, “Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence” [[http://www.nuclearrisk.org/%201why_now.php|www.nuclearrisk.org/ 1why_now.php]])</span></span>
Nuclear proliferation and the specter of nuclear terrorism are creating additional possibilities for triggering a
AND
to look like an attack by the U.S. or Russia.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The investment is key --carrier forces are key to diplomatic and military power---solves conflict </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">EAGLAN 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial,” July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)</span>

For any U.S. president, the aircraft carrier embodies the ultimate crisis
AND
of events and deliver a psychological message of U.S. interest.


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Advantage 2 Naval Leadership </span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We are in a global power transition—naval power is being increasingly important and we are falling behind </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Brookes 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Senior Fellow in National Security Affairs at the Heritage Foundation, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs, 2k8 (Peter, May 2nd, “Flattop Follies: Navy Cuts Back on Carriers”, </span>[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/05/flattop_follies_navy_cuts_back.html|__http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/05/flattop_follies_navy_cuts_back.html__]]
After cutting the number of active aircraft carriers from 12 to 11 last year,
AND
high-tech warfare world, quantity has a quality all its own.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mayport basing enhances surge capacity</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NAVFAC 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Naval Facilities Engineering Command, NAVFAC Southeast, “Final EIS for the proposed homeporting of additional surface ships at Naval Station Mayport, FL Vol I: Final Environmental Impact Statement,” November, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ada491893)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">The purpose of the proposed action is to ensure effective support of fleet operational requirements</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">through efficient use of waterfront and shore side facilities at NAVSTA Mayport.</span>
The 2001 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) called for the Department of Defense (
AND
retaining ship homeport locations within six hours transit time of local operating areas.

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Surge capacity is key to Naval power</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">GLOBAL SECURITY 2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (“Fleet Response Plan,” May 7, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/frp.htm)</span>
The Fleet Response Plan, adopted in 2003, calls for six of the Navy's
AND
the Navy will demonstrate and exercise a new approach to operations and maintenance.

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Naval power independently solves multiple scenarios of war </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cropsey 10 –</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is a Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute. Previously, he served as Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy during both the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations. (Seth, September 1, “Ebb Tide” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=7235]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

Only one statement can be made with certainty about the future of the U.
AND
conflicts. Its absence or abject weakness would be an invitation to calamity.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Scenario 1-Asian Sea Conflict </span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Specifically, Naval Power solves china war </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Felzenberg and Gray 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Alvin S. Felzenberg</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Professorial Lecturer at The Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, Presidential Historian and Adjunct Faculty Member at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, former Fellow at the Institute of Politics at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, served as Principal Spokesman for the 9/11 Commission, holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Princeton University</span>**,**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">and </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Alexander B. Gray,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Student at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and the War Studies Department of King’s College, London, 01-03-2011 “The New Isolationism,” The National Review, January 3rd, Available Online at </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/256150]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)bs</span>

China, while continuing to upgrade its naval capabilities, grows increasingly assertive. In
AND
American military presence on land, at sea, and in the air.

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US-China cross-strait war causes extinction—your generic defense doesn’t apply</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Cheong</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, Senior Writer @ the Strait Times, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">2000</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>

THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full
AND
should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization.



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2 is the Straight of Hormuz</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Iran’s threats to block the Strait of Hormuz could lead to World War III that draws in the U.S., Israel, and China</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Kidney, Dec. 31</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Grant J. Kidney, foreign policy analyst, “WWIII in 2012: Russia Calls Strait of Hormuz Conflict ‘Very Dangerous Scenario’,” Dec. 31, 2011, [[http://grantjkidney.com/wwiii-in-2012-russia-calls-strait-of-hormuz-conflict-very-dangerous-scenario/]] SJE]</span>

Russia's ambassador to the UN, Vitaly Churkin, believes that the conflict currently brewing
AND
will have manifested will pose an extremely dangerous scenario for all the world.


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A complete force of aircraft carriers is key to prevent Iran from closing the Strait of Hormuz—any reductions in force will inhibit our ability to deter the closure of the Strait </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Indian Express 12 *yummy </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(“US to keep 11 aircraft carriers to to project sea power against Iran”, Report aboard the USS Enterprise, January 23, </span>[[http://www.indianexpress.com/news/us-to-keep-11-aircraft-carriers-to-to-project-sea-power-against-iran/903009/0|__http://www.indianexpress.com/news/us-to-keep-11-aircraft-carriers-to-to-project-sea-power-against-iran/903009/0__]]
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta told sailors aboard the country's oldest aircraft carrier that the US
AND
in Afghanistan, anti-piracy efforts and other missions in the area.

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Impending conflict with Iran would collapse the global economy – Strait of Hormuz is the key center for oil exports</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Tehran Times, Jan. 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Tehran Times, Vol. 11343, “Iran war to deteriorate world economy,” 1/11/12, </span>[[http://www.tehrantimes.com/economy-and-business/94458-iran-war-to-deteriorate-world-economy]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> SJE]</span>

A senior Chinese diplomat says waging a war against Iran over its nuclear program will
AND
to prevent the transit of oil shipments through the strategic waterway if attacked.

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Economic Collapse causes domestic upheaval and world war</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">SHTF.com, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-News site detailing economic and political upheavals ( "It Won’t Be An Accident: The Build Up to World War III”, SHTF Plan.com, http://www.infowars.com/it-won%E2%80%99t-be-an-accident-the-build-up-to-world-war-iii/, October 10, 2011)//TWR</span>
In Economic Apocalypse Goes Mainstream we opined that the financial, economic and political collapses
AND
follow, without taking into account the stakes of this global chess game.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 3is South American Conflict</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Successful Fourth Fleet requires homeporting a CVN at Mayport</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dixon 8</span> (Drew, The Jacksonville Times, “New Mayport fleet, commander uplifting for base”, July 12
[[http://jacksonville.com/tu-online/stories/071208/nes_302439784.shtml|__http://jacksonville.com/tu-online/stories/071208/nes_302439784.shtml__]]
The reinstatement of a long-dormant fleet and a new commander of the Navy's
AND
which includes the Caribbean, Central America and South America, Kernan said.
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> A CVN fleet at Mayport is key to solve for Venezuelan instability </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Santana 8</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Humberto, International Committee of the Fourth International, “US Navy resurrects Fourth Fleet to police Latin America”, May 7, [[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2008/may2008/navy-m07.shtml]]</span>
Washington announced at the end of last month that it is resurrecting the long-
AND
has attributed to Al Qaeda and other Islamist groups in the Middle East.

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Venezuela may be forced into a government transition and the electoral tensions could escalate to a civil war—stabilization is key </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International Crisis Group 12</span><span class="CardsChar">(“Dangerous Uncertainty Ahead of Venezuela Elections”, June 26,</span>
The president’s cancer overshadows electoral preparations, however. Diagnosed more than a year ago
AND
Either scenario could spark opposition protests and escalating confrontation with government loyalists.

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chavez will put the entire hemisphere at risk to cling to power</span>==== 
**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Manwaring</span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">, General Douglas MacArthur Chair and Professor of Military Strategy at the U.S. Army War College and Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, **‘5** (Max, October, Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez, Bolivarian Socialism, and Asymmetric Warfare, </span>[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB628.pdf|__www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB628.pdf__]]<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">)</span>
At the same time, President Chávez’s approach to Latin American security and stability requires
AND
they and their associated problems endanger global security, peace, and prosperity.