[[toc]]
==OTECH CP== 

**Text: The United States Federal Government should incentivize the development and use of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Technology in the United States by giving tax credits that make OTEC cheaper than oil.**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The counterplan solves oil dependency and warming**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Galbraith, 09**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(4/12/09, Kate, The New York Times, “Generating Energy from the Deep”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/30/business/energy-environment/30thermal.html]])</span>
LOCKHEED MARTIN is best … stop in calm conditions.
==Visas CP== 

**Text: The United States federal government should exempt graduates from universities in the United States from the employment-visa quota and preference category system if they hold an advanced degree in science or technology from a school in the United States.**

===Aerospace=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Increasing skilled immigration key to US aerospace leadership.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">**Wharton School 9** – Knowledge @ Wharton, “Wanted: Qualified Engineers to Keep the Aerospace Industry Flying”, Wharton School of Business @ University of Pennsylvania, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10.5pt;">[[http://executiveeducation.wharton.upenn.edu/wharton-aerospace-defense-report/upload/A%20Shortage%20of%20Engineers%20Threatens%20the%20Industry%20and%20Nation.pdf]]</span>
As daunting as those … long-range jumbo jets by 2020.
===Science Diplomacy=== 

**Raising the H-1B cap is the vital factor for maintaining science diplomacy- solves global conflict**
**Pickering et al 1-27-10 [**Thomas R. Pickering is the President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, undersecretary of state from 1997-2000 and chairs the advisory council of the Civilian Research and Development Foundation. Peter Agre, a Nobel laureate, is a physician and director of the Malaria Research Institute at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, “Science diplomacy aids conflict reduction,” http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2010/feb/20/science-diplomacy-aids-conflict-reduction/]
Over two foggy days in April, a group … both to global problems and to global conflict.

**Visa restrictions hurt scientific diplomacy**
**Redden ‘08** [Elizabeth, Columbia University in the City of New York for editing “Science Knows No Borders. But Funders Do”. July 16, 2008 http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2008/07/16/science]
What scientists have, Calvin … hearing reported progress on that front.
==Sunshades CP== 

**The United States federal government should develop and deploy sunshades beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**Solves warming**
**Victor et al 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – a Professor at Stanford Law School, Director of Stanford's Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, and an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. M. Granger Morgan is Head of Carnegie Mellon University's Department of Engineering and Public Policy and Director of the Climate Decision Making Center. Jay Apt is Professor of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University. John Steinbruner is Professor of Public Policy and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland. Katharine Ricke is a doctoral student at Carnegie Mellon University (David G., March/April 2009 “The geoengineering option” http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/22456/The_Geoengineering_Option.pdf )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Each year, the effects … 1950s dreamed of doing.</span>