**THIS IS ACTUALLY BEN &JOSIAHS WIKI.**
**we're just too lazy to make a new page, honestly**

[[toc]]
Any cite requests email: imtaylorsanchez@yahoo.com

=AFF= 
==**MILLIKEN COURTS 1AC**== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">**Contention 1 – Where the sidewalk ends and the barbed wire fence begins**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">**In today’s American political imagination, the word ‘segregation’ conjures up visions of the past. Conventional wisdom holds that because deliberate school segregation is illegal, any remaining segregation is the natural, inevitable result of private choices. This view of segregation transforms the politics of racial subordination into a depoliticized fact for which no one bears responsibility. Deliberate racial segregation is thus quite literally hidden in plain sight.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Ford 94** (Richard Thompson Ford, Assistant Professor of Law, Stanford Law School, June 1994, Harvard Law Review, 107 Harv. L. Rev. 1843, p. 1844-1845)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">It is now passe' to speak of racial segregation. In an America that is</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">, even in the face of civil rights reform, is not mysterious.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Minority students become trapped in the system. They are told they have one role – that of the social deviant, the criminal – and they are physically unable to escape the neighborhoods in which they live. They are shipped from increasingly prison like schools directly into a literal prison. They have no choice but to embrace the role they are assigned. The bio-political system works</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Fuentes 04** (Annette Fuentes, Adjunct Professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, April 8, 2004, online: http://www.blackcommentator.com/85/85_guest_schoolhouse.html)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Columbine-style incidents are rare despite the exaggerated media attention and widespread perception that</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">, students are doing exactly what is expected of them. The system works</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">The intersection of racism and biopolitics is the single political logic that enables mass slaughter and genocide. The urban students cast as deviant threats to proper American society are a prime example of the targets of the ceaseless war made inevitable by racist biopolitics.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Mendieta 02** (Eduardo Mendieta, Professor of Philosophy at SUNY-Stony Brook, April 25, 2002, online: http://www.stonybrook.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf, accessed August 29, 2006)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">I have thus far discussed Foucault’s triangulation between the discourses of the production of truth</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">This unending war – invisible even to those it targets – is worse than nuclear war. Their impact scenarios are attempts by the system to keep the real war hidden and serve to intensify structural violence. You should hold their impacts as epistemologically suspect.</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Mumia **Abu-Jamal**, Political Prisoner, Prison Writer, Activist, 9-19-**98** (“A Quiet and Deadly Violence”, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__We live__, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, __in a nation__</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">This fatal and systematic violence may be called The War on the Poor.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Institutional racism itself is a form of violence that must be rejected</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Barndt 91** (Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization 1991 Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p.31-33)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism can be expressed with an iron fist or with a velvet glove. __At__ </span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">is exercised for us by others in ways that are to our benefit.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Thus the Plan: The United States Supreme Court should substantially increase the United States federal government’s investment in bussing by overruling Milliken v. Bradley 418 U.S. 717 (1974) by holding that there is no basis either in law or in practicalities justifying the interposition of school district boundaries as absolute barriers to the implementation of an effective desegregation remedy</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Contention 2 – Tearing down the fence</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Milliken is responsible for the urban pedagogy and segregation that exists in the status quo. Thriving White schools are literally blocks away, but Milliken has precluded the ability for the minority student to access them – bussing will solve this</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Rahdert 04** (Mark C. Rahdert, Professor of Law, Temple UHniversity Beasley School of Law, Spring 2004, Temple Political & Civil Rights Review, 13 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 785, p. 800-801)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Looking back, we can clearly see that __Milliken placed an insurmountable obstacle in the__ </span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">effectively, forbidden, at least as a result of any judicial decree.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">The plan is the decision that should have happened 40 years ago – there is a fundamental right to equality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Justice Marshall in the dissenting opinion of Milliken in 74</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I cannot subscribe to this emasculation of our constitutional guarantee of equal protection of the </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">there is little hope that our people will ever learn to live together.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">The Milliken precedent is the single most important facet of the law with regards to school segregation – so long as Milliken remains valid precedent, school desegregation will have no chance of success. Milliken’s legacy of racism produces an ethical obligation against complacency in regards to the segregated status quo. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Rahdert 04** (Mark C. Rahdert, Professor of Law, Temple UHniversity Beasley School of Law, Spring 2004, Temple Political & Civil Rights Review, 13 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 785, p. 800-801)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the five decades since Brown v. Board of Education, n4 __our society__ </span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brown that Milliken v. Bradley took for the courts and the nation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Contention 3 - Framework</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Dominant narratives that justify racial segregation operate by making the politics of spatial boundaries appear natural and apolitical. The 1ac makes the seemingly natural placement of boundaries between school districts an explicitly political issue, highlighting the racial divide between urban and suburban America as a deliberate instance of segregation. This awareness of spatial politics is critical to denaturalizing the racist foundations and bringing a critical, anti-racist legal consciousness into being.</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Oh 5** (Reginald C. Oh, assistant professor of law at the Appalachian School of Law, 2005, Cleveland State Law Review, 52 Clev. St. L. Rev. 243, p. 246-248)</span></span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If dominant narratives obscures the way power flows through spaces and places, then critical </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">How long have they been there? And how did they get there?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Our criticism of American politics has liberatory power, but absent a concrete plan of action, it will fail. The unique fusion of intellectual dissident and pragmatic policy making is critical to addressing racism. Our speech act is a vital starting point to expose institutional racism, and our plan is the first step to solving physical barriers to equal access. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ford 94** (Richard Thompson Ford, Assistant Professor of Law, Stanford Law School, June 1994, Harvard Law Review, 107 Harv. L. Rev. 1843, p. 1918-1920)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This Article has attempted to bring several distinct discourses to bear on the persistent issue</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">that the boundaries of a democracy share territory with the boundaries of race.</span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">We are not promising an overnight transition to a racial utopia. Instead, we offer the beginning of an awareness of racialized space, which then makes visible a multitude of previously unseen forms of social exclusion and domination. A politics of opposition to segregation makes explicit the inherent connections between places, groups, and individuals who would otherwise remain separate and unequal. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Kevin **Kuswa**, Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies at the University of Richmond, Winter 20**02**, The Journal of Law in Society, 3 J.L. Soc'y 31, p. 62-66</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Practitioners of a critical whiteness studies admit that such work will not solve racism,</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">white privilege manifests through the highway machine and its magnification of the suburb.</span>

==AFRO PESSIMISM 1AC== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Tupac Changes - :12 to 1:00</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">I was riding a virtually empty city bus when at a stop was a poorly dressed black man and the bus driver did not let him on. Later a White man in suit and tie after missing the bus at its stop and catching it at a red light (which is against protocol) was able to get on and ride. Another time pregnant African American women with two babies waited in the cold. Once again the bus was virtually empty and the driver drove past without an explanation. As a person who rides the bus as my own means of transportation I know that the busses run later and at a faster times in the outer city like suburbs were most residence are wealthy white families with cars. Why? Because as a state the stigma placed on blacks or African Americans as less productive or not members of society still stands. How can one participate in a society when his or her only means of transportation is privileged to those who are deemed worthy. Those who are seen as citizens. </span>**

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">Part 2 – We see no changes</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">To speak of transportation infrastructure in Civil Society is to Speak of the Middle passage. The road you drive on, the train you ride on, Its all the result of Chattel Slavery. The Black Body isn’t free and the thirteenth amendment didn’t end slavery – It just moved it to the prison. The violence enacted on the Slave renders them Ontologically Dead and wishing their body would follow.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**This is Childs in 2009** -</span> Ph.D. (UC Berkeley) Assistant Professor - African American Literature</span>
("You Ain't Seen Nothin' Yet": Beloved, the American Chain Gang, and the Middle Passage Remix Dennis Childs American Quarterly, Volume 61, Number 2, June 2009, pp. 271-297 (Article) Published by The Johns Hopkins University Press BS)
Even though the gangs came about as a Progressive Era reform of convict leasing,
AND
in the United States between the ages of twenty and twenty-nine.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Now, forgetting about the violence of the Middle Passage isn’t an option. Our application to modern transportation embraces the movement toward a new future. Our social location is uniquely important because we now exist in an historical moment where the only future is disaster. Our advocacy replaces the inevitable with the unthinkable.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is Yaszek in 2005</span>** [Lisa, Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies Georgia Tech School of Literature, Communication and Culture, TANDF 57 (Volume 25, No. 3)“Afrofuturism, Science Fiction, and the History of the Future” [[http://sdonline.org/42/afrofuturism-science-fiction-and-the-history-of-the-future/]]}</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In conclusion, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">I want to propose two reasons why it is important to recover </span></span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span></span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">and better futuresand<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> thus to </span>take back the global cultural imaginary <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">today.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">This debate begs the question of what it means to be political. Traditional definitions are based in Whiteness; they are attempts to preserve civil society built on the back of the slave, with borders defined by the ontological death of the black population. We play a stick up artist to the world, demanding all that it cannot give. The destruction of the world as we know it is the only road to freedom.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is Wilderson in 2010 </span>**(Frank Wilderson - Associate professor of African American Studies, Percy Howard – Psychotherapist asking questions of FW, “Frank Wilderson, Wallowing in the Contradictions, Part 1” [[http://percy3.wordpress.com/2010/07/09/frank-b-wilderson-%E2%80%9Cwallowing-in-the-contradictions%E2%80%9D-part-1/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">FW </span>__Reparations suggests a conceptually coherent loss.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The loss of land, the loss </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">and as Fanon does), but it won’t lead us to a cure. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">White supremacy is hidden by its seeming ordinariness- It only receives legitimacy through the legitimacy we allow. Rejecting use of institutional Whiteness breaks the cycle of continuity.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Martinot and Sexton 03-</span>** *prof at San Francisco State University**PhD in ethnic studies from UC Berkeley, Director, African American Studies at UC Irvine (Steve and Jared, “The Avant-garde of white supremacy,” http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~marto/avantguard.htm//MGD)**</span>
**__The gratuitousness of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its </span>__repetition bestows____upon white supremacy an inherent discontinuity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span> __It stops__**
**AND**
**__logic; it is, in fact, nothing but its very practices.__**


<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">So, Ben and I advocate the use of hip hop as a political strategy to end policing of the black body in debate. We have to abolish the policing aspect of this community to serve as a starting point to end black policing in other communities and the world.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">Part 3 – This debate</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">Debate has become an extension of the educational systems attempt to maintain a “pure” civil society through policing the body. The educational space dominated by Whiteness has rendered the body of color invisible in an attempt to focus the mind, but it exists yet. Rituals like framework are an attempt at controlling and imprisoning this contaminate of the educational space, our performance disrupts the exclusionary aspects of the activity.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The DSRB 2008</span> **(Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, PhD, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE," 15-16)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Particularly, </span>__I am interested in the speaking body of the other,__**
**AND**
**__process in educational spaces and public discourse about those spaces.__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Just like the black body’s existence in society today is a modern extension of colonial chattel slavery, hip hop is an extension of Negro spirituals. As the black body remains enslaved in spaces of Whiteness, our use of hip hop provides direction to freedom.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The DSRB 2008</span>** (Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, PhD, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE," 99-100)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">To continue the discussion of the use of music in specific debate rounds, I </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__hop music provides such a new form of engagement with contemporary racial subjugation__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

==VERSION 2 AFRO- PESSIMISM (Read@Harvard)== 
Part 1:
My rear view mirrors reflex a blinding glare.
Into my eyes and threw the tunnels of my pupils yall im scared.
Scared of death,
Out of breath, out of mind.
But I wish I could be scared out the color of my skin to become the color of his.
This aint on no I hate my black ass shit,
I’m not internally racist I love my black ass
And that’s why I’m thinking of ways to save it.
And as I’m breaking,
Red, white, and blue lights blaze the sky like it’s the fourth day of July.
But it’s not the fourth day of July,
It’s a Friday night in the winter.
Fuck fire crackers, these crackers fire at niggas.
And out of the night,
Sirens blare, lights flare up I’m scared but now doubly terrified,
Sense realizing not everybody is as scared as I.
Some people’s fears are a lot more.. Subtle…
“Oh my god my parents are going to kill me!”
Fuck that, I’m worried about this cop saving my parents that struggle.
And I can’t tell the difference!
Good cop, bad cop, that one, this one.
All I think is black man trying hit up the club,
Police man trying hit me with one.
And as I’m changing lanes.
Sweat drips like rain pours.
aint no way I can be a criminal now!
I’m tripping picturing myself in jail thinking,
“They finally got arrest warrants for those skittles I stole when I was twelve!”
License check,
Registration check,
And check.
It was just another routine check.
Check license, check lights but most importantly keep my ass in check.
And the hatred spreads,
All blind hate for them,
And that’s why fuck the police be our favorite hymn.
I know it’s a vicious cycle but it aint gone end,
as long as the keep profiling us we gone do the same to them.
Part 2:
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">childs card</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">wilderson card</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">martinot & sexton card</span>**

**Ben and I advocate a discussion of the resolution as an investment in the transportation infrastructure that affects who gets on the bus and who gets left, who gets pulled over and who gets let off the hook, who can afford a plane ticket and who cannot. We must recognize that modern transportation infrastructure and chattel slavery have been symbiotic. We use poetry as a counter-narrative to emancipate transportation policy from the Middle Passage and the Slave from the Master.**


Part 3:
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The role of the ballot in this debate is to endorse the best performance to liberate racially oppressed people.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The revolution starts right here, right now with us in this room and continues in every debate- Omission of personal perspectives is an ignorance of history, not just of the past but of the production of it. Attempts to work through the political system are just a symptom of Whiteness and an attempt by the elites to erase history.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pinkney 2011</span>** (Larry Pinkney - Veteran of the Black Panther Party, former Minister of Interior of the Republic of New Africa, a former political prisoner, an editorial board member of The Black Commentator, and former university instructor of polisci and IR, and is in the archives at Stanford University, California of Dr. Huey P. Newton who was co-founder of the Black Panther Party,“The Revolution Will STILL Not Be Televised,” Black Commentator, Issue 429 SANCHEZ)
__"The revolution"__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [i.e. the struggle by everyday people for </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__purveyor of disinformation, misinformation, and omission in this nation and globally.__
==== ==== 
**The DSRB card about education**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Other forms of education just don’t do anything to make Whiteness visible - Genuine engagement in performance is the only way for us, as students, to gain a full education and for those who are privileged to transcend the self and embody the experience of the other.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Warren & Fassett 4</span>** (John T. Warren - assistant prof. in the School of Comm. Studies @Bowling Green State, Deanna L. Fassett - assistant prof. in the Dept. of Comm. Studies @San José State, “Subverting Whiteness: Pedagogy at the Crossroads of Performance, Culture, and Politics,” The Johns Hopkins University Press, Theatre Topics, Volume 14, Number 2, September 2004, pg. 414-415, accessed via Project Muse SANCHEZ)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Recent work in </span>__performative pedagogy has created a rich context for (re)considering__
__AND__
__an engagement with the other, a reconceptualization of the self as other.__
==== ==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, the top never spills down – only our method effects individual interactions and communication. Systems of power are produced by interactions and relationships between individuals and our performance allows us to constantly question and interrogate those roles in racism and other forms of oppression.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Warren & Fassett 4 </span>**(John T. Warren - assistant prof. in the School of Comm. Studies @Bowling Green State, Deanna L. Fassett - assistant prof. in the Dept. of Comm. Studies @San José State, “Subverting Whiteness: Pedagogy at the Crossroads of Performance, Culture, and Politics,” The Johns Hopkins University Press, Theatre Topics, Volume 14, Number 2, September 2004, pg. 411-412, accessed via Project Muse SANCHEZ)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">To do this work, </span>__we look outward from these spectacular instances of violence and__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, a search for new ways of engaging in a politics of hope.</span>
=NEG= 
=KRITIKS= 
==AFRO PESSIMISM K 1NC== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">**A. (Link)**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">**B. There is an ethical responsibility to identify and reject Institutional Racism**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Barndt 91** (Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization 1991 Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p.31-33)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism can be expressed with an iron fist or with a velvet glove. __At__</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">is exercised for us by others in ways that are to our benefit.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">C. Vote negative to engage in an unflinching structural analysis of the ontological position of the political ideology of Blackness— this ideology of Blackness resides in a rejection of the affirmative’s ratification of democracy, the nation-state and civil society. Any struggle that ratifies the legitimacy of the state and civil society has failed before it began – Integration and Reformism are meaningless in the context of the slave. Only a complete rebuilding of society has the potential for true freedom.</span>**
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Kokontis 2011** (Kate, PhD in Performance Studies from UC-Berkeley, “Performative Returns and the Rememory of History: genealogy and performativity in the American racial state,” Dissertation available on Proquest)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">On one hand, she addresses the literal politics that the theological narratives espouse.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">for reinvention and reconstruction that emerge when faced with profound absence and loss.</span>
===Generic Links=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Modern transportation investment and planning are fundamentally beset by racial inequality – their focus on transportation as a tool of development is sustained by vast networks of systemic discrimination that leave the marginalized behind</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Bullard et al. 2000** [Robert D, Ware Professor of Sociology and Director, Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, Glenn Johnson, research associate in the Environmental Justice Resource Center and Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology at Clark Atlanta, and Angel Torres, GIS specialist with the Environmental Justice Resource Center , Dismantling Transportation Apartheid: The Quest for Equality, in Sprawl City, pp. 42-47]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">__Federal tax dollars help build and subsidize__ many of the __roads, freeways, and__</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">road construction programs are booming—even in areas choked by air pollution.</span>

===Reformism Links=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Their reformism is anti-revolutionary – historically, public social investments like the aff are used to create a narrative of national redemption from racism. The use of expansive taxation and market mechanisms is used to incorporate and defuse anti-racist struggles around issues like public transportation</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Baca ‘8** [George, assistant professor of anthropology at Goucher College, “Neoliberalism and stories of racial redemption”, Dialectical Anthropology, 2008, Volume 32, Number 3, Pages 219-241, Springer]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">In the vacuum left by federal government cutbacks, city __governments__ like Fayetteville __assumed greater__</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">politics that has narrowed black politics within the emerging system of neoliberal capitalism.</span>
== == 

==FEAR OF DEATH 1NC== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">The affs reps of spectacles of death is a symptom of larger societal obsession with the fear of dying. The use of the spectacle is a way in which we try to conquer our own fear of death by making us comfortable with it, to love death itself instead of life</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">bell hooks 2000</span>** (All About Love, p. 191-192)</span>
Love makes us… the art of loving
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">Consuming spectacles of death displace our fear instead of eliminating it—to the stranger, who we begin to perceive as a threatening messenger of death</span>
**same cite** p. 193-194
Ironically, the worship of death… that borders on madness.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">The 1AC calls upon the fear of death as the basis of mobilizing political action. This fear perpetuates a pure war mentality that will consume pur culture and cause us to share our lives with the dead</span>**</span>
**Borg 2003** (Mark, “Psychoanalytic Pure War: Interactions with the Post-Apocalyptic Unconscious,” Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society, 8:1, accessed on Project Muse)
Paul Virilio and… our lives with the dead.

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">The alternative text: Refuse the affirmative’s reps of death and demand reps based upon love as the basis for political action.</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%; text-align: left;">This call for reps of love can transform the culture of death and domination – using the ballot to reject the 1AC’s consumption of the spectacle of death is empowering in the way we think and act</span>
**bell hooks 2000** p. 93-100
Suddenly my passage was…whom it is done.