[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
This team currently has these two affirmative cases outlined and ready to go. If you want the specific one please speak with Aaron at the tournaments when he has reached his final decision on which on to go with.

1) Plan - The USFG should construct a transcontinental railroad for Aretha Franklin so she can tour the United States to share her music with its citizens. I will definitely elaborate further at the tournament if asked about it.

Advantages: Musical Greatness, Jobs. Unless I am in the debate I will not reveal the authors of my cards for this case. Policy debate is intended to enhance research skills among its participants. Given that the plan is topical, preparing for it shouldn't prove to be too difficult.

2) Plan - The United States federal government should invest in public-private partnerships to develop a national electrified railroad infrastructure system.

Advantages: These are available on open evidence with the specific evidence and authors. I find little reason to list it all here when each debater likely has all of this information available to them.

=Negative= 
**On case arguments:**

Any on case arguments my partner and I run will likely be MAJOR solvency attacks regarding the inefficiency of the federal government. I occasionally make inherency arguments as well. Those should be easy to prepare for.

**Off case arguments:**

The off case arguments that I usually go for with my partner are kritikal/theory/framework. My favorite is the Security K and I will likely run it numerous times this year. When not running Ks and other things of that sort I like to lay back and perform classic DA/CP debate. I wrote my own Coercion DA this year. There is a starting packet for it on open evidence where you can get an idea of what exactly is says. I added a whole bunch of cards from author and former presidential candidate Ron Paul. The most common CP I'll run is states. I am also developing a Consult Condi Rice CP that places emphasis on aff plans that claim huge hegemony advantages. As I'm sure you're aware, Condi is a foreign policy expert and what she has said and written in the past makes for great evidence. I never go for T.

NOTE - Please please please feel free to contact me at either AaronTheBaron18@gmail.com or alivingston@marshalltown.k12.ia.us if you have any question concerning my affirmative or negative strategy. I promise I will answer them to the best of my ability.

NOTE #2 - Also please be aware that anything I run at the tournament is subject to change at any time for any reason. I will likely stick to guns that I laid out on this Wiki but if something that my partner and I run is different any opposing debater should have evidence on the contrary of our arguments if they have the open evidence files.


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]