=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Besides everything on here, I might also read anything found on [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Reagan High School (TX) - Christina Wiener|Christina's]] wiki.</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>







=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">September-October</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
====__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">New God AC</span>**__==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Value: Human Dignity</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Kateb** 1 [George. William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Politics, Emeritus; his field is political theory. “The Inner Ocean”. Individualism and democratic culture. Copyright Cornell University Press 1992.]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Why make so much of individual personal and political rights... The most important sentiment by far is for the idea that every individual is equally a world, an infinity, a being who is irreplaceable.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Standard: Respecting Human Dignity</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Kateb** 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[In some of the pages that follow, I do make conceptual use of a state of` nature as a hypothetical condition in which no government exists as a literally or historically prepolitical or presocial condition...The protector of them at home must be condemned and resisted for violating them abroad.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Individual rights are the best way to respect human dignity because these rights are against the state;</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Non citizens accused of terrorism ought have due process protections because it checks back the unrestricted power of the state.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Kateb** 3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[The moral basis of this book is the belief that respect for individual...The latter rights, no matter how functional, cannot be the norm in a society devoted to individual rights.]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">To maximize human dignity, the government must respect the rights of all. The bill of rights and the establishment of judicial supremacy institute the individuals supremacy over the policy of the state.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Kateb** 4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Different individuals may use or need the several rights variably, but when government refuses to respect rights, it not only makes people suffer, it injures everyone's human dignity.... I say all this to explain why the arguments I have tried to present in this book are guided by the American experience of rights, even though the theory of rights is now universal, or nearly so. ]</span>

====__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Day Light AC</span>**__==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Because the resolution calls in to question what the United States ought to do, and not what it will/or can do, the round should be based upon ethical theories instead of some form of policy action.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ought is defined as a “moral obligation” so this approach is topically supported.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">standard of respecting alterity,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1 is that a refusal to give non-citizens due process rights will perpetuate the normalizing community and its violence against the Other</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Connolly** 1 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, The Ethos of Pluralization, pg at bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[As a movement struggles to cross the magic threshold of enact­ment, … injuries shuffled under justice by the practice of justice.186-188]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 is that traditional conceptions of justice perpetuate the normalizing community.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Connolly** 2 [William, Professor of Politic..al Science at John Hopkins, The Ethos of Pluralization, pg at bottom 1995]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[If you come to terms with the ambiguous relation between new movements and congealed standards of political judgment …It is a political response to the politics of identity\difference that al­ready precedes its intervention. ]xv-xvi</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 3 is that critical responsiveness is the only way to move past this normalizing community, and it is key to achieving our reconceptualized justice.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**White** explains [Stephen, Professor of Political Theory at Virginia Tech, Sustaining Affirmation: The Strengths of Weak Ontology in Political Theory, page at bottom of card]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[The second issue concerns not just distinguishing between presencing per se and human presencing, but rather the problem of drawing distinc­tions between … One needs "a bivalent ethical sensibility" here; justice and something like critical responsiveness.]61128-130</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Critical responsiveness contains rigid conceptions of justice but is not complete, it is flexible and constantly becoming because it understands the necessity and insufficiency of justice alone—it opens up possibilities for dealing with new modes of identity without violence.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Connolly** 3 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, Why I am Not a Secularist pg 68-69]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Rawls is superb at acknowledging the justice of newly acknowledged claims and constituencies once the politics of becoming has carried their voices within range of his hearing. Within a period of thirty years or so, … to an ethical reserve it is incapable of subjecting to definitive regulation.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">They can’t outweigh. Apocalyptic threats only distracts us from effective policy making and justifies infinite violence. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Callahan** 73 (Daniel, Co-founder and former director of The Hastings Institute, PhD in philosophy from Harvard University, “The Tyranny of Survival” 1973) Gocha</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[The value of survival could not be so readily abused were it not for its evocative power. But abused it has been...Yet it would be the defeat of all defeats if, because human beings could not properly manage their need to survive, they succeeded in not doing so.]</span>

====<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;">__**Night Light AC**__ </span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Because the resolution calls in to question what the United States ought to do, and not what it will/or can do, the round should be based upon ethical theories instead of some form of policy action.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ought is defined as a </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“used to indicate a desirable state” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">so this approach is topically supported.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">standard of respecting alterity,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1 is that a refusal to give non-citizens due process rights will perpetuate the normalizing community and its violence against the Other</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Connolly** 1 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, The Ethos of Pluralization, pg at bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[As a movement struggles to cross the magic threshold of enact­ment, … injuries shuffled under justice by the practice of justice.186-188]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 is that traditional conceptions of justice perpetuate the normalizing community.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Connolly** 2 [William, Professor of Politic..al Science at John Hopkins, The Ethos of Pluralization, pg at bottom 1995]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[If you come to terms with the ambiguous relation between new movements and congealed standards of political judgment …It is a political response to the politics of identity\difference that al­ready precedes its intervention. ]xv-xvi</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 3 is that critical responsiveness is the only way to move past this normalizing community, and it is key to achieving our reconceptualized justice.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**White** explains [Stephen, Professor of Political Theory at Virginia Tech, Sustaining Affirmation: The Strengths of Weak Ontology in Political Theory, page at bottom of card]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[The second issue concerns not just distinguishing between presencing per se and human presencing, but rather the problem of drawing distinc­tions between … One needs "a bivalent ethical sensibility" here; justice and something like critical responsiveness.]61128-130</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Critical responsiveness contains rigid conceptions of justice but is not complete, it is flexible and constantly becoming because it understands the necessity and insufficiency of justice alone—it opens up possibilities for dealing with new modes of identity without violence.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Connolly** 3 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, Why I am Not a Secularist pg 68-69]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Rawls is superb at acknowledging the justice of newly acknowledged claims and constituencies once the politics of becoming has carried their voices within range of his hearing. Within a period of thirty years or so, … to an ethical reserve it is incapable of subjecting to definitive regulation.]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thus the plan text: The United States ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And here's some framework:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. is the Interpretation: the aff should win if the topical plan is the best policy option in the debate. The neg should win if the plan is proven worse than the status quo or a government policy option competitive with the plan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Reasons to Prefer</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1) Topic-specific education</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2) Real-world Education</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A consequentialist framework best allows us to prepare for real-world policy making.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Schlesinger** 84(Arthur, Schweitzer Professor of Humanities, City University of New York “In the National Interest” [AAK])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[The moralization of policy creates still graver problems… Little has been more pernicious in international politics than excessive righteousness. ]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3) Plan focus</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">My framework ensures a stable locus for links and the comparison of alternatives. Alternative frameworks which do not ensure that the plan is the starting-point of the debate make confusion and judge intervention inevitable.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4) Role-playing</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Role playing as public actors shatters apathy and political alienation which is critical to check inequality and exploitation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gordon **Mitchell**, Associate Professor of Communication at University of Pittsburgh, Winter 2000, “Stimulated Public Argument As Pedagogical Play on Worlds”, Argumentation and Advocacy, vol 36, no 3, pq</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[When we assume the posture of the other in dramatic performance, … this component of students' self-identities carry significant emancipatory potential.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D. Voter for fairness and education</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Political discussion is crucial for education about policy issues and establishing agencies – their exclusion perpetuates academia’s insulation from politics – the impact is extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Jentleson** 2 (Bruce, Director of the Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy and Professor of Public Policy and Political Science at Duke University, International Security 26.4)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Bringing policy relevance back in thus does not mean driving theory out. …must think deeply about what our roles are to be, amid the extraordinary times in which we live.]</span>

====__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I'm Gay (I'm Happy) AC</span>**__==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, debate is a representative power play about who can score the most points, extend the most arguments, and kill the most amount of people via nuclear war. The affirmative challenges this </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Spanos** explains [William Spanos. Letter to Joe Miller, December 2002. [[http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=945110]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Dear Joe Miller, Yes… and his neocon policy makers is leading]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And traditional approaches to the terrorist create a “terrorist-monster” to be stigmatized and then normalized. **Puar and Rai 1** explains terrorism studies as they exist in the squo. [Jasbir K. Core faculty member in the department of Women's & Gender Studies at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rutgers_University|Rutgers University]]. Amit S. Associate Professor of English @ Florida State University. Monster, Terrorist, Fag: The War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots. Social Text, 72 (Volume 20, Number 3), Fall 2002, pp. 117-148 (Article)] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Today, we find the two figures of the monster and the person to …are presented as psychological compulsions that effectively determine and fix the mind of the terrorist]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the standard is embracing alterity</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1 is Heteronormativity and Patriotism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">American patriotism perpetuates an exclusion of those who we view as different from the heterosexual norm</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Puar and Rai** 2 further:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[We start by simply noting some obvious factors that constitute… Laden, brown-skinned folks, and men in turbans]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Failing to break down identity in terms of sexualities and race perpetuate the link between bio and necropolitics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Puar 1** writes: [Jasbir K. Core faculty member in the department of Women's & Gender Studies at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rutgers_University|Rutgers University]]. Terrorist Assemblages: Homonationalism in Queer Times. October 2007]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Many accounts of contemporary biopolitics thus foreground either race and state racism or…Does this securitization of queers entail deferred death or dying for others, and if so, for whom?]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 is Necropolitics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And this necropolitical approach to the Other is what allows for individuals to claim their superiority over all else and exercise the right to kill against those deemed inferior. **Mbembe** explains [Achille. senior researcher at the Institute of Social and Economic Research at the University of the Witwatersrand. Necropolitics. [[http://freeskoool.wikispaces.com/file/detail/Mbembe%20Necropolitics.pdf]] 2003]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Wars of the globalization era therefore aim to force the enemy into submission… During the last decades of the twentieth century, monetary circulation has influenced state and society in at least two different ways.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And **Mbembe** 2 summarizes the impacts. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[In this essay I have argued that contemporary forms of subjugation of life to the power of death (necropolitics)…under conditions of necropower, the lines between resistance and suicide, sacrifice and redemption, martyrdom and freedom are blurred.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 3 is Assemblages</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The affirmative is thus a radical breaking away from status quo approaches to those perceived as terrorists; </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Puar** 2 concludes: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Mbembe and Spivak each articulate, unintentionally, how queerness is constitutive of the suicide bomber and the tortured body…a continuum that privileges the pole identity as the evolved form of western modernity. ]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Judith Butler explains why this usage of it is key to reclaiming it and to stopping the oppression against the queer body in the status quo.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Butler** writes [Judith. Chancellor's Professor in the departments of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at the University of California, Berkeley. Excitable Speech: A Politics of the Performative. New York. Routledge. 1997. Pp. 159-161]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[The performative needs to be rethought not only as an act… one that positions the performative at the center of a politics of hegemony, one that offers an unanticipated political future for deconstructive thinking. ]</span>


----


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 

====__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kill 'em All CP</span>**__==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ought is defined as “indicating moral obligation”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the negative can negate in two ways</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1) I only have to clash with the nuances of the affirmative advocacy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2) The resolution is not a comparative statement so the negative does not have the burden of proving some form of alternative solvency.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Part 1 is the counter plan text. Resolved: The United States should expand its policy of targeted killing of terrorists regardless of territorial location.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Part 2 is the justification for the Counter-advocacy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Fair side balance</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Depth of Education</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. Strategic Research</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D. Effective Policy Analysis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">E. Intelligent Case Writing and AFF Research</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Part 3 is competition/ Inherency</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This policy would avoid granting any due process to terrorists; we can’t both give due process and kill every terrorist, there must be no exceptions; methodologies like due process that don’t take concrete action only increase terrorist activity.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Dershowitz**, professor of law at Harvard, 2006 (Alan, “Terrorism: Confusing cause, effect,” Boston Globe, January 16, http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2006/01/16/terrorism_confusing_cause_effect/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[The trouble with this ''cycle of violence" perspective is that it confuses cause and effect… Sure enough, Germany released the surviving Black September terrorists less than two months after Munich, when Palestinian terrorists ''hijacked" a Lufthansa plane].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Part 4 is Net Benefits:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Failure to condemn terrorism as pure evil invites moral relativism about everything – makes any atrocity morally justified.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Dershowitz**, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Felix_Frankfurter|Felix Frankfurter]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professor|Professor]] of Law at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_Law_School|Harvard Law School]], 2003 (Alan, The Case for Israel, Pages 193-194)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Yet there is true evil in the world…. assassination of a single terrorist commander—is morally equivalent]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Part 5 is Solvency: Violence is necessary to solve terrorism, due process will never solve.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ralph **Peters**, Retired Army officer, “In Praise of Attrition,” Parameters, Summer 2004, p. 24-32, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/04summer/peters.htm, UK: Fisher</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Our military, and especially our Army, has come a long way. But we’re still in recovery—almost through our Cold War hangover… The truth is that even if you can’t kill yourself out of the problem, you can make the problem a great deal smaller by effective targeting. ]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moral certainty is critical to an effective war on terrorism – lack of moral confidence breeds failure, criticism of collateral damage undermines the war on terror</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dr. Yaron **Brook** is executive director of the Ayn Rand Institute, holds a B.Sc. in civil engineering **and** an MBA and Ph.D. in finance from the University of Texas at Austin, and Elan **Journo** is a senior writer for ARI, “The Timid War on Terrorism,” The Ayn Rand Institute, September 4, 2003 http://www.aynrand.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=7877, UK: Fisher</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[To defend American lives properly… Our survival depends, not only on having a more powerful military, but on the courage to use our might--to act on what is morally proper--to act on our urgent need of ferocious self-defense.]</span>


# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Next off: is the Interpretation: the aff should win if the topical plan is the best policy option in the debate. The neg should win if the plan is proven worse than the status quo or a government policy option competitive with the plan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Reasons to Prefer</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1) Topic-specific education</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2) Real-world Education</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A consequentialist framework best allows us to prepare for real-world policy making.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Schlesinger** 84(Arthur, Schweitzer Professor of Humanities, City University of New York “In the National Interest” [AAK])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[The moralization of policy creates still graver problems… Little has been more pernicious in international politics than excessive righteousness. ]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3) Plan focus</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">My framework ensures a stable locus for links and the comparison of alternatives. Alternative frameworks which do not ensure that the plan is the starting-point of the debate make confusion and judge intervention inevitable.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4) Role-playing</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Role playing as public actors shatters apathy and political alienation which is critical to check inequality and exploitation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gordon **Mitchell**, Associate Professor of Communication at University of Pittsburgh, Winter 2000, “Stimulated Public Argument As Pedagogical Play on Worlds”, Argumentation and Advocacy, vol 36, no 3, pq</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[When we assume the posture of the other in dramatic performance, … this component of students' self-identities carry significant emancipatory potential.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D. Voter for fairness and education</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Political discussion is crucial for education about policy issues and establishing agencies – their exclusion perpetuates academia’s insulation from politics – the impact is extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Jentleson** 2 (Bruce, Director of the Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy and Professor of Public Policy and Political Science at Duke University, International Security 26.4)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Bringing policy relevance back in thus does not mean driving theory out. …must think deeply about what our roles are to be, amid the extraordinary times in which we live.]</span>

====Santa Zizek NC==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even if you don’t buy the offense off the nc, it is sufficient for a negative ballot to vote on defense to the ac if I prove the affirmative is false, or undesirable for some reason because </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1)The negative has the burden of clash, not the burden of proof. Because the aff sets the parameters of the round, I only have to clash with the nuances of the affirmative advocacy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2)Maintains fair ground because my opponent still retains the entirety of the resolution, proving why the US ought to extend due process protections. This best creates fairness within the debate, and without a fair debate individuals would have no reason to continue the program. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3)To insert a not in the resolution would create the contrapositive, thus reading The United States ought not extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens, which just means I have to be textually not targeted killing.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4)The resolution is not a comparative statement so the negative does not have the burden of proving some form of alternative solvency. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And a separate questioning outside of the realm of fiat is necessary to avoid the separation between advocate and agent of change</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Mitchell** in 1995 (Gordon, Univ. of Pittsburgh Communications prof, “REFLEXIVE FIAT: INCORPORATING THE OUTWARD ACTIVIST TURN INTO CONTEST STRATEGY”, paper presented to the 1995 SCA National Convention)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[One problem with approaches to fiat which feature …the action by external actors defended in plan or counterplan mandates.]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the negative adopts the standard of sacrificing ethics. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention one. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Claims of obligation toward the other are used to centralize the importance of the one who is not other. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Žižek 05 (Slavoj, senior researcher at the Institute of Sociology, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia, Smashing the Neighbor's Face, http://www.lacan.com/zizsmash.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Levinas therefore secretly imputes to Spinoza an egotistic "subjectivist" notion of (my) existence - his anti-Spinozean… the place from which the truth about the others' oppression is accessible.]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hospitality and good faith towards non citizens accused of terrorism places the citizen, and the state at the center of who deserves rights, duties, or identity. It also presumes if the state can extend these protections, they can, at will, rescind them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Westmoreland,** professor of philosophy @ Neumann College, 2008 (Mark, “Interruptions: Derrida and Hospitality,” Kritike 2:1, pg. 1-10)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Throughout most of Derrida’s work, there lurks an oasis of hospitality… would impose on hospitality and would cause it to no longer be absolute, or unconditional.]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Any attempt to master the realm of undecidability requires calculation that ascribes politically salient value to lives. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Dillon,** professor of politics and IR @ Lancaster, 1999 (Michael, “Another Justice,” Political Theory, pg. 164-7)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Otherness is born(e) within the self as an integral part of itself and in such a way that it always remains an inherent stranger to itself… Such an ethos, it may then be said—I would want to say—is what distinguishes political life. ]</span>


====__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">K DA</span>**__==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Hospitality and good faith towards non citizens accused of terrorism places the citizen, and the state at the center of who deserves rights, duties, or identity. It also presumes if the state can extend these protections, they can, at will, rescind them. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Westmoreland,** professor of philosophy @ Neumann College, 2008</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">(Mark, “Interruptions: Derrida and Hospitality,” Kritike 2:1, pg. 1-10)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[Throughout most of Derrida’s work, there lurks an oasis of hospitality, sometimes on the verge of the horizon. At other times, it shines in the foreground. It is in these shining moments that we... Any law or concept would impose on hospitality and would cause it to no longer be absolute, or unconditional]</span>

====__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">I'm Hiding in your Hedges NC</span>**__==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Ought is defined as desirability </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Thus rather than take an advocacy based around ethics, the negative adopts the standard of maximizing safety. This is the most important standard because:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Extinction comes first – </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Schell** 82 (Jonathan Schell, Scholar and Visiting Fellow at Yale University. “The Fate of the Earth” page 136)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[Implicit in everything that I have said so far about the nuclear predicament …we think about, coloring our thoughts and moods with its presence throughout our lives.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Contention one. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Killing terrorists is justified, morals rely on a following of the rules from both sides – Terrorists don’t do this, which forfeits our moral responsibility to not harm them, thus linking the affirmative out of their own fw.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Statman** 04 (Daniel Statman is a professor, department of philosophy, Haifa University. He received his B.A. and his PHD from Bar Ilan University. His research areas are: Ethics, Moral Psychology, Philosophy of Law, Jewish Philosophy, Haifa University Theoretical Inquiries in Law, January 2004, Volume 5, Number 1, Article 7)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[From a moral standpoint, the distinction does…though not from strict moral rules of conduct.]</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">New forms of violence have permeated conventional warfare.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Yonah **Alexander,** professor and director of the Inter-University for Terrorism Studies in Israel and the United States. “Terrorism myths and realities,” The Washington Times, August 28, 2003</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[Unlike theirhistorical counterparts, contemporary terrorists have introduced… Forwithout victory, there is no survival."]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Heavy military presence and hard power all increase America’s hegemony and its ability to protect its citizens from attack</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Thayer,** 07 [Bradley A. Thayer, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, “America Empire”, pg. 16]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[Another critical question is not simply how much the United States spends on defense but what benefits it receives from its spending… was because he saw what happened to Saddam Hussein.”]</span>



=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">November-December</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">January-February</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">March-April</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>