[[toc]]
If you have any problems or questions about the cites, or just have a debate question in general, email me at 13karand@students.harker.org and I'll gladly respond.
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===CBT AC=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Anscombe defines ought:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">G.E.M Anscombe, Modern Moral Philosophy, Philosophy 33, No. 124, January 1958,[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/mmp.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The terms “should”… required by law.</span>



And, the purpose of the US Justice system is to prevent crime. **Haist**

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Matthew Haist; </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://acadia.law.northwestern.edu/jclc/backissues/v99/n3/9903_789.haist.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">; DETERRENCE IN A SEA OF “JUST DESERTS”: ARE UTILITARIAN GOALS ACHIEVABLE IN A WORLD OF “LIMITING RETRIBUTIVISM”?; Journal of Law & Criminology</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">utilitarian theories of...in future crimes</span>


governments have an obligation to reduce recidivism and that’s all they care about. Latessa and Holsinger



Edward J. Latessa and Alexander Holsinger; “The Importance of Evaluating Correctional Programs: Assesing Outcome and Quality”; [[http://www.cimh.org/downloads/EBJJ3-4/EBP7.pdf]]; 1998

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">despite these limitations...of a program</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text: In the United States, all adults and juveniles will be treated in a criminal justice system that emphasizes rehabilitation over retribution through Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) with anger control and interpersonal problem solving components as a mandatory program for convicted high risk offenders. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Milkman and Wanberg describe the unique aspects of CBT and how it is better than other rehabilitation programs. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Harvey Milkman, Ph.D., Department of Psychology, Metropolitan State College of Denver, Denver, Colorado, Kenneth Wanberg, Th.D., Ph.D., Center for Addictions Research and Evaluation (CARE), COGNITIVE-BEHAVIORAL TREATMENT: A Review and Discussion for Corrections Professionals, May 2007 </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">History and Background…outcomes in society. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Inherency: The status quo has a harsh focus on retribution over rehabilitation. Whitman</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.law.yale.edu/faculty/JWhitman.htm|James Q. Whitman]] is a professor of comparative law at Yale. He is the author of "Harsh Justice: Criminal Justice and the Widening Divide between America and Europe, JANUARY 21, 2011, When the Focus Is Retribution,[[http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2011/01/20/who-qualifies-for-the-insanity-defense/when-the-focus-is-retribution]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Even before the… the mentally ill.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Landenberger and Lipsey conducted a meta-analysis study that came to the conclusion that the plan would reduce recidivism by 52% as compared to a retributive approach.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment,[[http://restorativejustice.pbworks.com/f/Landenberger_Lipsey.pdf]], The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">When the corresponding… in this metaanalysis.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, CBT is the best rehabilitation program. Milkman and Wanberg 2</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Harvey Milkman, Ph.D., Department of Psychology, Metropolitan State College of Denver, Denver, Colorado, Kenneth Wanberg, Th.D., Ph.D., Center for Addictions Research and Evaluation (CARE), COGNITIVE-BEHAVIORAL TREATMENT: A Review and Discussion for Corrections Professionals, May 2007 </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Traditional psychotherapy is… to their clients.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Prefer the study for five reasons:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The findings have been confirmed universally. Landenberger and Lipsey 2</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment,[[http://restorativejustice.pbworks.com/f/Landenberger_Lipsey.pdf]], The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">This meta-analysis…& MacKenzie, 2005).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The meta analytical study took 2947 studies and narrowed it down to 58 studies that met their criterion for having quality. Landenberger and Lipsey 3</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment,[[http://restorativejustice.pbworks.com/f/Landenberger_Lipsey.pdf]], The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The search for… present meta-analysis</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The meta analysis took 5 factors into consideration. Landenberger and Lipsey 4</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment,[[http://restorativejustice.pbworks.com/f/Landenberger_Lipsey.pdf]], The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Studies were assessed… in any language.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The program used for meta analysis was developed for this system—prefer it to generic protocol. Landenberger and Lipsey 5</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment,[[http://restorativejustice.pbworks.com/f/Landenberger_Lipsey.pdf]], The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Descriptive and outcome… months post-treatment.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The study took data from over 40 years of research. Landenberger and Lipsey 6</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment,[[http://restorativejustice.pbworks.com/f/Landenberger_Lipsey.pdf]], The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Computerized bibliography… none were missed.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edward J. Latessa and Alexander Holsinger; “The Importance of Evaluating Correctional Programs: Assesing Outcome and Quality”; [[http://www.cimh.org/downloads/EBJJ3-4/EBP7.pdf]]; 1998</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">what do we ... of program integrity</span>



===Determinism AC=== 


The concept of ought is grounded in the notion of the proper function of a system given its placement in the resolution.
**Wedgwood**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ralph. “The Meaning of 'Ought'” (ed. Russ Shafer-Landau). Oxford Studies in Metaethics. Vol. 1. 2006. Pgs. 127-160.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘Ought’ exhibits other…most effective way</span>


Punishing those who aren't culpable destroys the credibility of the law and is antithetical to the purpose of criminal justice system.
**Robinson**, Paul H. (Professor of Law, Northwestern University School of Law) and John M. **Darley** (Dorman T. Warren Professor of Psychology, Princeton University). “The Utility of Desert.” Northwestern University Law Review, Vol. 91, No. 2. 1997.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our central point…effectively reduce crime</span>

First, a prerequisite to discussing retribution is the assumption of responsibility and free will. If a crime was not committed voluntarily, retribution is definitionally off the table.
**Cragg**, Wesley//. The Practice of Punishment: Towards a Theory of Restorative Justice//. Psychology Press. 1992. Pg. 19.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">An essential element…is //mens rea//</span>




First, the brain crosses the ‘point of no return’ beyond which it is committed to taking an action, prior to the mind even becoming conscious of the potential action.
**<span style="background-color: white;">Newell</span>**<span style="background-color: white;">, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Brandi Jo. “Can Neuroscience Inform the Free Will Debate?” Indiana Undergraduate Journal of Cognitive Science: 4 (2009). Pgs 54-64.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As we previously…of free will</span>

Second, causality is an omnipresent factor in our relationships with the world around us that prevents us from making actual choices.
**Kant**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Immanuel. //Free Will// (ed. Derk Pereboom). Hacket Publishing Co. New York: September 1997.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If one takes…am never free</span>


Third, the only possible pre-causation reference to a free will must be the will itself, but this means that there is nothing that separates the person from the action.
**Chrisholm**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roderick. //Free Will// (Ed. Derk Pereboom). Hacket Publishing Co. New York: September 1997.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There must be…view of action</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Underview</span>

First, rehabilitation definitively and most effectively decreases recidivism.
**<span style="background-color: white;">Przybylski</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Roger.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">{</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mr. Przybylski served as associate director for the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, where he directed the authority’s research division. He also has served as coordinator of research for the Chicago Police Department, the nation’s second largest local law enforcement agency. Mr. Przybylski is a past president of the Justice Research and Statistics Association and current chairman of the American Evaluation Association’s crime and justice interest group. He has been an adjunct faculty member at Loyola University and the University of Illinois-Chicago, and an associate editor for the Justice Research and Policy Journal and the Journal of Offender Rehabilitation. He also has served as staff to the Illinois Legislative Committee on Juvenile Justice, the Governor's Commission on Gangs in Illinois, and the Illinois Task Force on Crime and Corrections. **}** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">"What Works: Effective Recidivism Reduction and Risk-Focused Prevention Programs." //Division of Criminal Justice//. Colorado Department of Public Safety, Feb. 2008. Web. <http://dcj.state.co.us/ors/pdf/docs/ww08_022808.pdf>.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">More than 30…reaching these goals</span>


===Death Penalty AC=== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Anscombe defines ought:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">G.E.M Anscombe, Modern Moral Philosophy, Philosophy 33, No. 124, January 1958,[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/mmp.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The terms “should”… required by law.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Function of gov't is consequentialist</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]</span>
Moreover, virtually all...advantage of society

# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A. Plan Text: The United States federal government will replace the death penalty with rehabilitative programs in life without parole. I reserve the right to clarify. I will specify more if asked in cross examination. The Socialist Alternative clarifies the plan. Socialist Alternative, http://www.socialistalternative.org/about/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Fight discrimination on...the death penalty</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">B. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Inherency: The death penalty still stands in the US. Equal Justice Initiative.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Equal Justice Initiative, [[http://www.eji.org/deathpenalty]], DEATH PENALTY</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">3170 people ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">the federal government.</span>



**Advantage 1 – EU Relations**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">US-Euro relations low-Europe is disappointed and has no hope in the US. The Tribune</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Tribune, September 7, 2012, [[http://tribune.com.pk/story/432975/europe-cool-on-obama-after-high-hopes-fade/|Europe cool on Obama after high hopes fade]],</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://tribune.com.pk/story/432975/europe-cool-on-obama-after-high-hopes-fade/]]</span>



analysts say expectations…global economic policy





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The European Union opposes the US use of the death penalty. **EU Website**</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">European Union; [[http://www.eurunion.org/eu/Hot-Topics/Death-Penalty.html]]; Last Updated Nov 1, 2012</span>



The European union…the various documents





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Death Penalty is Key to US-EU relations. **Smith**</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Simon PSmith; THE DEATH PENALTY AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: A CASE OF CONFLICT TRANSFORMATION THROUGH KNOWLEDGE </span>



As discussed earlier…so lose face





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">EU Relations Key To Solve Disease Breakout **Steinberg** </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Steinberg 3 James B. Steinberg, Vice President and Director, Foreign Policy Studies, 2003 [The Brookings Institution, Survival, vol. 45 no. 2, Summer, p. 113-46]</span>



Both the United States…these goals alone







Influenza and viruses lead to extinction Yu


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Yu, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, 09</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Victoria, May 22, DUJS aims to increase scientific awareness within the Dartmouth community by providing an interdisciplinary forum, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)</span>



a pandemic will… human-viable strain





**Advantage 2 – Racism**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">There is a statistical racial disparity in the dealing of the death penalty.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Michael Fraser, Western Connecticut State University, Social Sciences Journal Volume 10, 9 9-30-2011 Crime for Crime: Racism and the Death Penalty in the American South, http://repository.wcsu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1070&context=ssj</span>



A study performed…trial was upheld

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">When the impact is capital punishment, the blackness of a defendant influences the outcome of the trial. Eberhardt et al. 1</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Jennifer L. **Eberhardt**, P G. **Davies**, Valerie J. Purdie-**Vaughns**, Sheri Lynn **Johnson**, 5-10-2006, Looking Deathworthy: Perceived Stereotypicality of Black Defendants Predicts Capital-Sentencing, Cornell Law Library, Scholarship@Cornell Law: A Digital Repository, Cornell Law Faculty Publications, http://scholarship.law.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1040&context=lsrp_papers&sei-redir=1&referer=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2Fsearch%3Fhl%3Den%26client%3Dsafari%26sa%3DX%26ei%3D_oShT7HuI8n2ggfc4fCUCQ%26ved%3D0CBsQvwUoAQ%26q%3Djennifer%2Beberhardt%2Bdeathworthy%26spell%3D1%26biw%3D320%26bih%3D416#search=%22jennifer%20eberhardt%20deathworthy%22</span>







In the current…determinant of deathworthiness





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Eberhardt et al. 2 continues </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Jennifer L. **Eberhardt**, P G. **Davies**, Valerie J. Purdie-**Vaughns**, Sheri Lynn **Johnson**, 5-10-2006, Looking Deathworthy: Perceived Stereotypicality of Black Defendants Predicts Capital-Sentencing, Cornell Law Library, Scholarship@Cornell Law: A Digital Repository, Cornell Law Faculty Publications, [[http://scholarship.law.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1040&context=lsrp_papers&sei-redir=1&referer=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2Fsearch%3Fhl%3Den%26client%3Dsafari%26sa%3DX%26ei%3D_oShT7HuI8n2ggfc4fCUCQ%26ved%3D0CBsQvwUoAQ%26q%3Djennifer%2Beberhar|http://scholarship.law.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1040&context=lsrp_papers&sei-redir=1&referer=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2Fsearch%3Fhl%3Den%26clients%3Dsafari%26sa%3DX%26ei%3D_oShT7HuI8n2ggfc4fCUCQ%26ved%3D0CBsQvwUoAQ%26q%3Djennifer%2Beberhardt%2Bdeathworthy%26spell%3D1%26biw%3D320%26bih%3D416#search=%22jennifer%20eberhardt%20deathworthy%22]]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Why might a...cues to deathworthiness</span>



Racism is the biggest impact. Barndt

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Joseph </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Barndt</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Co-Director, Crossroads, DISMANTLING RACISM, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">91</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">p. 155-156</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The limitations imposed…it to continue</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 3 – Innocents</span>**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Thousands of innocent people are sentenced to death in the US</span>

David<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Love, staff writer – The Guardian, 12</span>

[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2012/may/21/america-death-penalty-murders-innocents]]



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The US criminal…wrote the study</span>


===Death Penalty AC - Golden Desert Update=== 
# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Competing Worlds</span>
# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Presume aff </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The concept of ought is grounded in the notion of the proper function of a system given its placement in the resolution.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wedgwood</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Ralph. “The Meaning of 'Ought'” (ed. Russ Shafer-Landau). Oxford Studies in Metaethics. Vol. 1. 2006. Pgs. 127-160.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">‘Ought’ exhibits</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">other …most effective way.</span>
# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Good is atrributive</span>
# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. No justifiable inferences</span>
# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Good in the abstract</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Since the subject of the resolution is the state, we must look to the state’s function. which is utilitarian </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Woller</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, virtually … </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">advantage of society.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan Text: The United States federal government will ban the death penalty and rehabilitate those convicted offenders to mark a shift away from retributive policies. I reserve the right to clarify. I will specify more if asked in cross examination. The ACLU clarifies the plan.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">ACLU; “End the Death Penalty!”; [[http://www.aclu.org/maps/end-death-penalty]]; No Date</span>
**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The death penalty s… must be ended.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Inherency: The US currently uses the death penalty **Spielmann 12**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Peter James Spielmann; AP; Huff Post; [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/03/27/capital-punishment_n_1381652.html]]; 3/27/12</span>
**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The United States …</span>__**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">a year earlier.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Advantage 1 is EU Relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Death Penalty is Key to US-EU relations. **Smith**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Simon PSmith; THE DEATH PENALTY AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: A CASE OF CONFLICT TRANSFORMATION THROUGH KNOWLEDGE; No Date</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As discussed earlier</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">… **__so lose face.__**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Relations with EU are key to solving terrorism **Holmes**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Holmes 3 Stephen Holmes, NYU Law School Professor, 2003 [“AMERICAN PROSPECT”, p. 21]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The September 11 … is patently inadequate.</span>

Failure to prevent terrorism risks nuclear extinction
Sid-Ahmed ‘4
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(Mohamed-, Al Ahram weekly, “Extinction!”, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]])</span></span>

**__We have … all be losers.__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Advantage 2 is Innocents</span>
Thousands of innocent people are sentenced to death in the US **Love**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;"> Love, staff writer – The Guardian, 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2012/may/21/america-death-penalty-murders-innocents]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The US criminal …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> wrote the study.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Advantage 3 is state budgets</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan key to solving state budget crisis.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NY Times, High Cost of Death Row, September 27, 2009, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/28/opinion/28mon3.html?_r=0]]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">States waste millions …</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> schools and parks.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Abolishing death penalty key to saving at least 1.25 million dollars per case.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Death Penalty Focus, The High Cost of the Death Penalty, http://www.deathpenalty.org/article.php?id=42</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Capital punishment</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> in … potential federal appeals</span>

Correctional spending trades off with higher education. California proves. Sankin ’12
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[California Spending More On Prisons Than Colleges, Report Says, Posted: 09/06/2012 8:47 pm Updated: 09/08/2012 4:32 pm,[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/09/06/california-prisons-colleges_n_1863101.html]] Aaron Sankin ] (Credits to Bronx Science for the Cite)</span>
**__There's a …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">its prison expenditures.)</span>

Government Funding for Education is key to Competitiveness
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Epstein, Senior Education Analyst for Center for American Progress, ’11 </span>(Diana, 8/8/11, Center for American Progress, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CFEQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.americanprogress.org%2Fissues%2F2011%2F09%2Fpdf%2Feducation_competitiveness.pdf&ei=OPvxT7rPHIqw6wH2x8n8BQ&usg=AFQjCNEvjztqUMldbJm3sIwo_psnAJ7alA&sig2=aEC9qDt7Si4ctbaZZCUkrA, “Investing in Education Powers U.S. Competitiveness: Education Funding Must Be Preserved,” AM)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Education is the …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> marketplace for talent.</span>

US economic competitiveness prevents multiple scenarios for global nuclear conflicts
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Friedberg & Schoenfeld 8</span> (Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School. Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, Ocbtober 21, 2008,http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the global … the camel's back</span>
Underview
# A. Interpretation The affirmative is allowed to parametricize as long as the the advocacy is topical.

B. Standards
1. Real World


# C. Voter - Education i

Topicality checks predictability
Wiki solves research burdens

===Death Penalty AC - Stanford Update=== 

Same as Golden Desert but new plan text and solvency advocate.
Plan Text: The United States federal government will ban the death penalty as an affirmation of rehabilitative values. I reserve the right to clarify. I will specify more if asked in cross examination. Amnesty International clarifies the plan.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amnesty International; [[http://www.amnestyusa.org/pdfs/dp_qa.pdf]]; “The Death Penalty; Questions and Answers”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is also...</span>**__rehabilitation of offenders__**.

===Death Penalty AC - Stanford Update v2=== 
# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Competing Worlds. </span>
# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Presume aff </span>

The concept of ought is grounded in the notion of the proper function of a system given its placement in the resolution.
**Wedgwood**, Ralph. “The Meaning of 'Ought'” (ed. Russ Shafer-Landau). Oxford Studies in Metaethics. Vol. 1. 2006. Pgs. 127-160.
**__‘Ought’ exhibits__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">other … most effective way.</span>

# <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">1.</span> <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> Good is atrributive</span>
# <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">2.</span> <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">No justifiable inferences</span>
# <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">3.</span> <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Good in the abstract</span>

Since the subject of the resolution is the state, we must look to the state’s function. which is utilitarian **Woller**:
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, virtually all …</span>**__advantage of society.__**

Plan Text: The United States federal government will ban the death penalty as an affirmation of rehabilitative values. I reserve the right to clarify. I will specify more if asked in cross examination. Amnesty International clarifies the plan.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amnesty International; [[http://www.amnestyusa.org/pdfs/dp_qa.pdf]]; “The Death Penalty; Questions and Answers”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is also …</span> **__rehabilitation of offenders__**.

Inherency: The US currently uses the death penalty **Spielmann 12**
Peter James Spielmann; AP; Huff Post; [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/03/27/capital-punishment_n_1381652.html]]; 3/27/12
**__<span style="color: #333333;">The United States …</span>__**<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;"> a year earlier.</span>

Advantage 1 is EU Relations
Death Penalty is Key to US-EU relations. **Smith**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Simon PSmith; THE DEATH PENALTY AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: A CASE OF CONFLICT TRANSFORMATION THROUGH KNOWLEDGE; No Date</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As discussed earlier</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… so lose face</span>**__.__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EU relations are key to solving multiple regional WMD conflicts</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamilton 3</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Daniel, Director of the Center for Transatlantic Relations @ Johns Hopkins University, 6/11/2003 FDCH Congressional Testimony) p. lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If our efforts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">pursue it together</span><span class="underline">. </span>

Advantage 2 is Innocents
Innocents are executed in the US
Anti-Death Penalty; [[http://www.antideathpenalty.org/reasons.html]]; “Reasons”; No Date
**__The innocent may…every 7 executed.__**

Advantage 3 is state budgets
Plan key to solving state budget crisis.
NY Times, High Cost of Death Row, September 27, 2009, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/28/opinion/28mon3.html?_r=0]]
**__States waste millions …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, schools and parks.</span>

Correctional spending trades off with higher education. California proves. Sankin ’12
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[California Spending More On Prisons Than Colleges, Report Says, Posted: 09/06/2012 8:47 pm Updated: 09/08/2012 4:32 pm,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/09/06/california-prisons-colleges_n_1863101.html]]</span> Aaron Sankin ]</span>
**__There's a direct …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">its prison expenditures.)</span>

Government Funding for Education is key to Competitiveness
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Epstein, Senior Education Analyst for Center for American Progress, ’11 </span>(Diana, 8/8/11, Center for American Progress, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CFEQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.americanprogress.org%2Fissues%2F2011%2F09%2Fpdf%2Feducation_competitiveness.pdf&ei=OPvxT7rPHIqw6wH2x8n8BQ&usg=AFQjCNEvjztqUMldbJm3sIwo_psnAJ7alA&sig2=aEC9qDt7Si4ctbaZZCUkrA, “Investing in Education Powers U.S. Competitiveness: Education Funding Must Be Preserved,” AM)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Education is the….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">marketplace for talent.</span>

US economic competitiveness prevents multiple scenarios for global nuclear conflicts
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Friedberg & Schoenfeld 8</span> (Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School. Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, Ocbtober 21, 2008,http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the global ….</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the camel's back.</span>

Advantage 4 is International Law

The Death Penalty violates international law **Amnesty International**
Amnesty International; “Death Penalty in International Law”; [[http://www.amnesty.org/en/death-penalty/international-law]]; No Date
**__The Universal Declaration …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the death penalty</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 13pt;">THE ONLY ALTERNATIVE TO INTERNATIONAL LAW IS GENOCIDE AND NUCLEAR WAR.</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 13pt;"> **Shaw 01** </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">(10/3/01 Martin Shaw Professor of International Relations and Politics at the University of Sussex. “The unfinished global revolution: intellectuals and the new politics of international relations” </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.martinshaw.org/unfinished.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">The new politics ….politics, are intertwined.</span>

Advantage 5 is Racism
There is a statistical racial disparity in the dealing of the death penalty.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Michael Fraser, Western Connecticut State University, Social Sciences Journal Volume 10, 9 9-30-2011 Crime for Crime: Racism and the Death Penalty in the American South, http://repository.wcsu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1070&context=ssj</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A study performed … trial was upheld. 13</span>
The terminal impact is extinction
Feagin, Fmr President-American Sociological Association, 6
<span class="cite">(Systemic Racism: A Theory of Oppression, P. 9)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed,</span> **__this planet … of racial oppression__**



Weighing
1. Traditional ethics must be abandoned in the face of extinction in order to ensure that deliberation over the alternatives can continue. **Bostrom:**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span>**__Bostrom ‘11__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The Concept of Existential Risk”, 2011, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy [[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.html]]</span>

**__These reflections on …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, if possible, improved). </span>


# 2. Presupposes Life
# 3. Internal link to Probability












==Negative== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fiscal Cliff DA</span>=== 
# <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Uniqueness: Fiscal cliff scheduled to pass—lawmakers cannot risk squabbling now.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/About/Staff/Liz-Marlantes|Liz Marlantes]], Correspondent, December 17, 2012, Amid Newtown grief, will a 'fiscal cliff' deal quietly get done?, Decoder Wire, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/DC-Decoder/Decoder-Wire/2012/1217/Amid-Newtown-grief-will-a-fiscal-cliff-deal-quietly-get-done]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Instead of a… they'll take it.</span>

# <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Links:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Criminal justice reform plays a huge part in political capital</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Although this pathology… of the public.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Reform risks loss of political capital. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Since election cycles…to safer streets.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The lack of short term benefits kills political capital. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In addition, since… cheap, political response.”116</span>

# <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Impact: Obama must use capital to secure a fiscal cliff solution—key to avoid global depression</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sullivan, 11/9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(The Daily Dish, “Now, Govern,” [[http://andrewsullivan.thedailybeast.com/2012/11/now-govern.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">I'm as amazed… magnanimous. And fast.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sequestration would be catastrophic for our national security and would trigger upheaval in the Middle East</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hutchison, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, 9/21/2012</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Despite warnings of… punish working families.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">That escalates globally and goes nuclear </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Primakov, ’09 (Yevgency, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian¶ Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial¶ Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which¶ the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of¶ Sciences in 2008, July-September 2009, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CDMQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fhawk.ethz.ch%2Fserviceengine%2FFiles%2FISN%2F105702%2Fichaptersection_singledocument%2F71a40dca-23cb-411d-9c5d-a7ce495e2522%2Fen%2F12.pdf&ei=ndKiUKSuJobYigLH8IGABQ&usg=AFQjCNHNDNHFFr_J0IYsuZjNoZt18HNMLQ&sig2=RpdwWxE0JtGaPxuFrS1gtw]], “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations,” ADM)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Middle East… such a possibility</span>


===Legal Obligations NC=== 

V – Justice


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Society is a cooperative venture between individuals. Dagger ONE</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Dagger, Richard. “Playing Fair with Punishment”. //Ethics,// Vol. 103, No. 3, April, 1993. Publisher: The University of Chicago Press</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As it applies…advantage of them</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">From this, it follows that justice requires the punishment of those who take unfair advantage of society’s benefits. Dagger TWO</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Dagger, Richard. “Playing Fair with Punishment”. //Ethics,// Vol. 103, No. 3, April, 1993. Publisher: The University of Chicago Press</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Punishment is justified…benefits and burdens</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VC -</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> punishing those who take unfair advantage of society’s benefits. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The act of breaking the law itself is gaining an unfair advantage because the law-breaker fails to reciprocate the restraint of other citizens. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Koritansky </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Koritansky, Peter. “Two Theories of Retributive Punishment: Immanuel Kant and Thomas Aquinas”. Source: History of Philosophy Quarterly, Vol. 22, No. 4 (Oct., 2005), pp. 319-338. Published by: University of Illinois Press.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The good being…the necessary restraint</span>


===Education Tradeoff DA=== 
Current Education funding is sufficient but budget constraints cause cuts in education
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">McWhirter et al, Staff Reporter for WSJ, 6/15 </span>(Cameron, with Jack Nicas, 6/15/12, WSJ, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303734204577466470850370002.html, “Universities Feel the Heat Amid Cuts,” AM)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">After decades of… billion from $678 million.</span>


<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; vertical-align: baseline;">Prison Rehab programs are being cut by states</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Promises</span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">; </span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Promises Treatment Centers; “Lack of Budget for Prison Rehab Programs Fails to Help Incarcerated Additcts”;http://www.promises.com/articles/addiction-treatment/lack-of-budget-for-prison-rehab-programs-fails-to-help-incarcerated-addicts/; No Date</span></span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: baseline;">National studies have … prison treatment programming.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Correctional funds directly take money away from programs such as education, **Thompson**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Don Thompson; AP; “California Prison Population: Jerry Brown Challenges Inmate Cap”; [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/08/california-prison-populat_n_2433421.html]]; 1/18/13</span>
**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Brown said the…</span>__**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> the statewide average</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Government Funding for Education is key to Competitiveness
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Epstein, Senior Education Analyst for Center for American Progress, ’11 </span>(Diana, 8/8/11, Center for American Progress, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CFEQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.americanprogress.org%2Fissues%2F2011%2F09%2Fpdf%2Feducation_competitiveness.pdf&ei=OPvxT7rPHIqw6wH2x8n8BQ&usg=AFQjCNEvjztqUMldbJm3sIwo_psnAJ7alA&sig2=aEC9qDt7Si4ctbaZZCUkrA, “Investing in Education Powers U.S. Competitiveness: Education Funding Must Be Preserved,” AM)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Education is the…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> marketplace for talent.</span>


US economic competitiveness prevents multiple scenarios for global nuclear conflicts
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Friedberg & Schoenfeld 8</span> (Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School. Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, Ocbtober 21, 2008,http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the global…</span> the camel's back.


===Debt Ceiling DA=== 

Debt Ceiling resolution will pass – GOP is divided and can’t generate any real opposition
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sargent, 1/4 </span>(Greg, Plum Line, The Washington Post, 1/4/13, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/wp/2013/01/04/the-debt-ceiling-isnt-obamas-problem-its-the-gops-problem/, “The debt ceiling isn’t Obama’s problem. It’s the GOP’s problem.,” ADM)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama and Dems …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">strong, after all.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Criminal justice reform plays a huge part in political capital</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Although this pathology… of the public.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Reform risks loss of political capital.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Since election cycles…to safer streets.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The lack of short term benefits kills political capital.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In addition, since… cheap, political response.”116</span>


Obama PC is key to convincing the GOP to compromise on the debt ceiling and sequestration now – failure causes global economic collapse
**Shear and Weisman 1-3** – Michael and Jonathan, writers for the International Herald Tribune (Republicans ready for another battle; Beaten on tax increase, they're spoiling to take on U.S. borrowing limit, International Herald Tribune, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Barack </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama'</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">s … over the debt limit.</span>

Economic collapse causes global nuclear war
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Friedberg and Schoenfeld, 2008</span> [Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]
__Then <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">with external adventures</span>__.__


===Immigration DA=== 

Obama has the political upper hand on immigration – it will pass, assuming no unexpected issues like the plan derail his PC
Chris <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weigant</span> – Political Blogger / Huff Post – <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1/23</span>/13, Handicapping Obama's Second Term Agenda, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/chris-weigant/obama-second-term_b_2537802.html]]

There is reason...wait and see

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Criminal justice reform plays a huge part in political capital</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Although this pathology… of the public.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Soft on crime reform risks loss of political capital.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Since election cycles…to safer streets.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The lack of short term benefits kills political capital.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. HECHINGER, J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights. 2011, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In addition, since… cheap, political response.”116</span>

Obama’s political capital is key to CIR
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foley, 1/15 </span>(Elise, Huffington Post, 1/15/13, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/15/obama-immigration-reform_n_2463388.html, “Obama Gears Up For Immigration Reform Push In Second Term,” ADM)

Obama and his...foreign migrant labor

Reform is key to US competitiveness
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bush, McLarty & Alden, 09</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – co-chairmen and director of a Council on Foreign Relations-sponsored Independent Task Force on U.S. Immigration Policy (7/21/09, Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and former White House Chief of Staff Thomas F. McLarty and Edward Alden, “Nation needs comprehensive, flexible immigration reform,” http://www.ajc.com/opinion/nation-needs-comprehensive-flexible-97393.html)</span>

our immigration system...residency and citizenship

Loss of Competitiveness results in great power conflict—collapses US hegemony
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2011 (“The Economy and National Security,” //National Review//, February 8th, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024, Accessed 02-08-2011)</span>

Today, economic and...of multi-polarity

===Immigration DA - Golden Desert Update=== 

Republicans will embrace immigration reform now, but votes can change
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Peoples and Thomas, 2/1 </span>(Steve and Ken, Associated Press, 2/1/13, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/02/01/republicans-immigration_n_2597565.html?ncid=edlinkusaolp00000003, “Republicans Face Immigration Balancing Act,” ADM)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">new reality ,,,like the idea</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Soft on crime reform kills capital</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. **HECHINGER**, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> **2011**, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Since election cycles ,,,</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> to safer streets.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Public reaction fuels congressional action against the aff.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">SCOTT R. **HECHINGER**, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> **2011**, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>

**__<span style="font-family: TimesTen-Roman;">Driven in large …</span>__**<span style="font-family: TimesTen-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">capable of rehabilitation.</span>
==== ==== 
Obama’s political capital is key to CIR
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foley, 1/15 </span>(Elise, Huffington Post, 1/15/13, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/15/obama-immigration-reform_n_2463388.html, “Obama Gears Up For Immigration Reform Push In Second Term,” ADM)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama and his ,,, foreign migrant labor.</span>

Competiveness key to economy and hegemony
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Segal, 04</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Adam, Foreign Affairs, “Is America Losing Its Edge?” November / December 2004, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span>//U//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates' </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…entrepreneurship at home.</span>

Hegemonic decline causes great power wars – 1930’s prove
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zhang & Shi,</span>Researcher @ The Carnegie Endowment,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> ’11</span>
[Yuhan Zhang, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi, Columbia University, Independent consultant for the Eurasia Group, Consultant for the World Bank, “[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/|America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry]],” January 22nd 2011, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Over the past…unrivalled US primacy</span>.

===Immigration DA - Stanford Update=== 

Immigration reform will pass, GOP obstructionism is irrelevant
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foley 2/3 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Elise Foley; Harry Reid On Immigration Reform: 'This Legislation Is Going To Pass' (VIDEO)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/02/03/harry-reid-immigration-reform_n_2610182.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- Senate Majority … this legislation passed."</span>
Criminal justice reform is politically toxic because it alienates republicans and democratics
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.article-3.com/author/rtrinick|Richard **Trinick**]]</span> | “Why Won’t The Candidates Talk About Prisons?”; [[http://www.article-3.com/why-wont-the-candidates-talk-about-prisons-99475]]; October 17, 20**12**
**__It’s politically toxic. …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to be made.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Public reaction fuels congressional action against the aff.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SCOTT R. **HECHINGER**, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">J.D., 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2004, Duke University. 2010–11, Sinsheimer Children’s Rights Fellow, Partnership for Children’s Rights.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **2011**, JUVENILE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE: AN ANTIDOTE TO CONGRESS’S ONE-WAY CRIMINAL LAW RATCHET?, N.Y.U Review of Law & Social Change, Vol. 35</span>
**__<span style="font-family: TimesTen-Roman;">Driven in large…</span>__**<span style="font-family: TimesTen-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">capable of rehabilitation.</span>

Obama’s political capital is key to CIR
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foley, 1/15 </span>(Elise, Huffington Post, 1/15/13, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/15/obama-immigration-reform_n_2463388.html, “Obama Gears Up For Immigration Reform Push In Second Term,” ADM)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama and his …foreign migrant labor.</span>

Reform is key to US competitiveness
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bush, McLarty & Alden, 09</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – co-chairmen and director of a Council on Foreign Relations-sponsored Independent Task Force on U.S. Immigration Policy (7/21/09, Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and former White House Chief of Staff Thomas F. McLarty and Edward Alden, “Nation needs comprehensive, flexible immigration reform,” http://www.ajc.com/opinion/nation-needs-comprehensive-flexible-97393.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Our immigration system…</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> residency and citizenship.</span>


Competiveness key to economy and hegemony
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Segal, 04</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Adam, Foreign Affairs, “Is America Losing Its Edge?” November / December 2004, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">U</span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">S</span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates' </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">…entrepreneurship at home.</span>

Hegemonic decline causes great power wars – 1930’s prove
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zhang & Shi,</span>Researcher @ The Carnegie Endowment,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> ’11</span>
[Yuhan Zhang, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi, Columbia University, Independent consultant for the Eurasia Group, Consultant for the World Bank, “[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/|America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry]],” January 22nd 2011, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]]
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Over the past …unrivalled US primacy</span>.

===Evolution NC=== 

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Epistemology: Naturalism is the only way to solve for radical skepticism.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">James Maffie. “Recent Work on Naturalized Epistemology.” //American Philosophical Quarterly//, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Oct., 1990), pp. 281-293. Illinois UP.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Naturalists maintain it…”post Cartesian” epistemology</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We do not have apriori knowledge. A naturalized epistemology is the only way to get closest to the truth through the usage of scientific rigour.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">James Maffie. “Recent Work on Nat uralized Epistemology.” American Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Oct., 1990), pp. 281-293. Illinois UP.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Contextual continuity: Naturalists…us by science.</span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Meta ethic: Morality must be grounded in the natural world. Therefore, the meta ethic is Darwinian Naturalism.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">P. Wesley Edwards. A Darwinian Approach to Meta-ethics. Free Thought Debater. August 2004. Google.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Attempting to argue…being self-contradictory</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And, because all things are grounded in the natural world, evolution produced moral notions in only humans.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">P. Wesley Edwards. A Darwinian Approach to Meta-ethics. Free Thought Debater. August 2004. Google.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As many people are…may have become</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Evolutionary fitness is enhanced by punishing wrondoers.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The Primate Diaries, May 18, 2010, [[http://scienceblogs.com/primatediaries/2010/05/18/punishing-cheaters/]], [[http://scienceblogs.com/primatediaries/2010/05/18/punishing-cheaters/|Punishing Cheaters Promotes the Evolution of Cooperation]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The more recent…for individual fitness</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Retribution has been chosen by natural selection.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Robert Boyd and Peter J. Richersont, Punishment Allows the Evolution of Cooperation (or Anything Else) in Sizable Groups Zentrum fiir lnterdiszipliniire Forschung, Universiti~t Bielefeld, Bielefeld, Germany, [[http://www.des.ucdavis.edu/faculty/Richerson/PunishmentAllowsAnything.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A number of…</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> range of behaviors.</span>__**

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
[[media type="custom" key="10353370"]]
[[media type="custom" key="21779904"]]
[[media type="custom" key="21930874"]]

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]