[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Universal Design - Glenbrooks and Crestian== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Current funding for transportation infrastructure has alienated people with disabilities from society by robbing them of their mobility** AAPD, 2012 (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, [[http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation and mobility… very uneven progress.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-C1-Despite the ADA, public transportation is still inaccessible for people with disabilities AAPD,2011(American Association for People With Disabilities ,"Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities", 7/16/2012,http://www.aapd.com/resources/publications/transportation-disabilities.pdf )]]**Despite the ADA, public transportation is still inaccessible for people with disabilities** AAPD,2011(American Association for People With Disabilities ,"Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities", 7/16/2012,[[http://www.aapd.com/resources/publications/transportation-disabilities.pdf]] )</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Train travel has… make travel prohibitive.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in universally designed transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Advantage 1: Automobility]]__**Advantage 1: Automobility**__</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Advantage 1: Automobility-Federal spending associated with automobility is a form of segregation that provides the mobile able body, we must strive for a reduction disparity in mobility Langan, associate professor of English at the University of California at Berkeley, in ‘1 [Celeste, “Mobility Disability” in Public Culture 13(3): 459–484]]]**Federal spending associated with automobility is a form of segregation that provides the mobile able body, we must strive for a reduction disparity in mobility** Langan, associate professor of English at the University of California at Berkeley, in ‘1 [Celeste, “Mobility Disability” in Public Culture 13(3): 459–484]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As Wasserman points… filmmaker Haskell Wexler.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Advantage 1: Automobility-United States automobility policies are modeled globally Springs 7 [Mary Alice, School of humanities @ college of charlston “Inequity in transportation: The Problem with Auto Hegemony]]]**United States automobility policies are modeled globally** Springs 7 [Mary Alice, School of humanities @ college of charlston “Inequity in transportation: The Problem with Auto Hegemony]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While problems with… toward auto hegemony.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Advantage 1: Automobility-Car culture results in millions of deaths and injuries per year: it ensures both the production of impairments and continued exclusion of people with disabilities, ensuring shorten life spans for countless individuals. Aldred and Woodcock 08 [Rachel Aldred and James Woodcock; School of Social Sciences, Media, andCultural StudiesUniversity of East London and Department of Epidemiology and PopulationHealthLondon School of Hygiene and Tropical¶ Medicine ‘Transport: challenging disabling environments’ LocalEnvironment: The International Journal of Justice and Sustainability; pgs 7-9; http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~content=a901696392]]]**Car culture results in millions of deaths and injuries per year: it ensures both the production of impairments and continued exclusion of people with disabilities, ensuring shorten life spans for countless individuals**. Aldred and Woodcock 08 [Rachel Aldred and James Woodcock; School of Social Sciences, Media, andCultural StudiesUniversity of East London and Department of Epidemiology and PopulationHealthLondon School of Hygiene and Tropical¶ Medicine ‘Transport: challenging disabling environments’ LocalEnvironment: The International Journal of Justice and Sustainability; pgs 7-9;[[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~content=a901696392]]]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The case of transport… sexism, and disablism.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Advantage 1: Automobility-And – The eugenic gaze cast by our relationship to disability culminates in the genocidal impulse – the institutional spaces of exclusion epitomized by transportation policies legitimize state-sponsored violence Hughes, 2002 (Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)]]**And – The eugenic gaze cast by our relationship to disability culminates in the genocidal impulse – the institutional spaces of exclusion epitomized by transportation policies legitimize state-sponsored violence** Hughes, 2002 (Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The dominant framework… politics of genocide.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Advantage 1: Automobility-And, focus on accessible transit solves the ideology of disability reinforced by car culture. Aldred and Woodcock 08 [Rachel Aldred and James Woodcock; School of Social Sciences, Media, and Cultural Studies University of East London and Department of Epidemiology and Population Health London School of Hygiene and Tropical¶ Medicine ‘Transport: challenging disabling environments’ Local Environment: The International Journal of Justice and Sustainability; pgs 9-11 ; http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~content=a901696392]]]**And, focus on accessible transit solves the ideology of disability reinforced by car culture**. Aldred and Woodcock 08 [Rachel Aldred and James Woodcock; School of Social Sciences, Media, and Cultural Studies University of East London and Department of Epidemiology and Population Health London School of Hygiene and Tropical¶ Medicine ‘Transport: challenging disabling environments’ Local Environment: The International Journal of Justice and Sustainability; pgs 9-11 ;[[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~content=a901696392]]]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">People with mobility… or electric scooters.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Adv 2: Stigma]]__**Adv 2: Stigma**__</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Adv 2: Stigma-Current transportation infrastructure relies on segregated services for people with disabilities, enforcing a naturalized binary between abled and disabled stigmatizing these bodies with their association with second class services. Silvers 1996 (Anita, professor and chair of the Philosophy Department, San Francisco State University, Disability, Discrimination, and Difference, pg 23-26)]]**Current transportation infrastructure relies on segregated services for people with disabilities, enforcing a naturalized binary between abled and disabled stigmatizing these bodies with their association with second class services.** Silvers 1996 (Anita, professor and chair of the Philosophy Department, San Francisco State University, Disability, Discrimination, and Difference, pg 23-26)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A segregated system... to disability benefits.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Adv 2: Stigma-Segregated systems ensure that people with disabilities will remain invisible and excluded from political and public spaces of interaction. This creates a central dependency of people with disability on charitable welfare services while ensuring that their voices are never heard. Sinyo 2011 (Josephine, first blind woman lawyer in Kenya. She is a trailblazer in politics for people with disabilities in Kenya, CHALLEGES OF DISABILITY, VISIBILITY, AS A HUMAN RIGHTS AGENDA A PAPER PRESENTED ON THE 8TH SEPTEMBER BY JOSEPHINE SINYO AT LELDEN NETHERLANDS. http://www.scribd.com/doc/57772810/Disability-Presentation-Josephine-Sinyo 2011)]]**Segregated systems ensure that people with disabilities will remain invisible and excluded from political and public spaces of interaction. This creates a central dependency of people with disability on charitable welfare services while ensuring that their voices are never heard.** Sinyo 2011 (Josephine, first blind woman lawyer in Kenya. She is a trailblazer in politics for people with disabilities in Kenya, CHALLEGES OF DISABILITY, VISIBILITY, AS A HUMAN RIGHTS AGENDA A PAPER PRESENTED ON THE 8TH SEPTEMBER BY JOSEPHINE SINYO AT LELDEN NETHERLANDS.[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/57772810/Disability-Presentation-Josephine-Sinyo]] 2011)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The relative invisibility... footing with others.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Adv 2: Stigma-The segregation of people with disabilities underlies able-nationalism, where the national body is purified of abnormal bodies, discourses, and activities. Snyder & Mitchell 2010 [Sharon L. Snyder, founder of Brace Yourselves Productions and the director of four award-winning films David T. Mitchell ssociate Professor in the Curriculum, Instruction, and Technology in Education Department in the College of Education at Temple University. “Introduction: Ablenationalism and the Geo-Politics of Disability” Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies, Volume 4, Number 2, 2010, pp. 113-125]]]**The segregation of people with disabilities underlies able-nationalism, where the national body is purified of abnormal bodies, discourses, and activitie**s. Snyder & Mitchell 2010 [Sharon L. Snyder, founder of Brace Yourselves Productions and the director of four award-winning films David T. Mitchell ssociate Professor in the Curriculum, Instruction, and Technology in Education Department in the College of Education at Temple University. “Introduction: Ablenationalism and the Geo-Politics of Disability” Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies, Volume 4, Number 2, 2010, pp. 113-125]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A key conflation... of social determinism.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Adv 2: Stigma-Exclusion of disabled bodies underlies all forms of oppression and mass death; All oppressive systems operate by isolating and eliminating people with traits deemed inferior and deviant. Only by reconceiving how disabled bodies appear can we begin to undo the underlying justification for all forms of violence against disqualified populations. Siebers 2010 (Tobin, professor of English, University of Michigan, Disability Aesthetics, pgs 23-28)]]**Exclusion of disabled bodies underlies all forms of oppression and mass death; All oppressive systems operate by isolating and eliminating people with traits deemed inferior and deviant. Only by reconceiving how disabled bodies appear can we begin to undo the underlying justification for all forms of violence against disqualified populations. Siebers 2010** (Tobin, professor of English, University of Michigan, Disability Aesthetics, pgs 23-28)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Disqualification as a... gender, and sexuality.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1A - Bronx-Solvency]]__**Solvency**__</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Universal design is crucial for accessibility of transport.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Audirac in ‘8 [Ivonne, Director-Program in City and Regional Planning. University of Texas-Arlington, “Accessing Transit as Universal Design”, Journal of Planning Literature 23: 4]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Accessing Transit as... providing transit services.</span>//


==Highways - Greenhill== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan: The USFG should substantially increase its investment in interstate highways by targeting areas of lower socio-economic class. </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Solvency</span>__**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation infrastructure represents the polity of a nation</span>**
Jim **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohen</span>**, September **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2009</span>**, “Divergent Paths, United States and France: Capital Markets, the State, and Differentiation in Transportation Systems, 1840-1940” Enterprise & Society, Volume 10, Number 3
Cross-national studies...such as transport.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">State key for protection of rights</span>**
Ruth E**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Groenhout, </span>**Department of Philosophy at Calvin College,**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 2002</span>**, “Essentialist Challenges to Liberal Feminism,” //Social Theory and Practice//, Volume 28, Number 1
Individual rights cannot...aristocracy or theocracy.

**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Advantage 1 – Abjectio</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">n</span>__**
**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">1)</span>** **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Geographically closed spaces are oppressive. We need highways to connect different places and come to terms with fluid boundaries in order to end exclusion in society</span>**
Robyn**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Longhurst, 2001</span>**, Geography and the Body: Exploring Fluid Boundaries, pg. 123-125
In this concluding...ideas in turn.

**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">2)</span>** **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Confronting sexual difference through the abject is key. The abject and the feminine signify the boundaries that exist spatially and create worry about contamination within our borders.</span>**
Robyn**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Longhurst, 2001</span>**, Geography and the Body: Exploring Fluid Boundaries, pg. 28-32
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Following Anne McClintock’s...</span><span style="background-color: #f7f7e6; font-size: 12pt;">and through sex/gender.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">3)</span>** **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Recognizing fluidity of the body and identity is key – we moved constantly through geographies, and fluid notions of the body through sexual difference is femininized and otherized, maintaining masculinity</span>**
Robyn**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Longhurst, 2001</span>**, Geography and the Body: Exploring Fluid Boundaries, pg. 19-20
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Like Callard (1998) I...</span>systems of signification.

**4) The imbalance in male-dominated societies is the root cause of environmental destruction, poverty, hunger, war and societal conflicts of all sorts.**
**Chew in 1998,** Phyllis Chim Lian, Senior lecturer at the school of arts, Nanyang technological University, **__International Journal on World Peace, 1998,__** //The Challenge of Unity: Women, Peace, and Power, p. 41//
There is a...together in harmony.

**__<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Advantage 2: Maternal Mobility</span>__**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1)</span>** **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Woman is defined by patriarchal location as place, which loses her identity as woman, self, and being – a violent loss. The use of mobility allows woman agency in regard to location, which means she is able to constitute herself as her gender.</span>**
Lyn **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCredden, 2001</span>**, Feminist Poetics of the Sacred: Creative Suspicions, page 214-215
French philosopher and...other with her. (Irigaray 1993:35)

2) **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Enforcing the distinction between technology and the self is the current dominant narrative in automobility which perpetuates heterosexism and patriarchy. In the expression of the mother through the automobile, there is no clear distinction between subject and object, political and technical, breaking down these structures every time she drives</span>**
Kevin Douglas **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kuswa</span>**, July **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2009</span>**, “Driving Ourselves and the Rise of Maternal Auto/mobility: Wright’s (1939) The Car Belongs to Mother,” Deb(K)ate, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://puttingthekindebate.com/2012/05/09/transportation-infrastructure-investments-and-maternal-mobility/]]</span>
Donna Haraway adds...within the home.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The automobile is a mechanism Mother can use to navigate her subjectivity –driving acts as both an escape from and the upholding of the bonds of the family</span>**
Kevin Douglas **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kuswa</span>**, July **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2009</span>**, “Driving Ourselves and the Rise of Maternal Auto/mobility: Wright’s (1939) The Car Belongs to Mother,” Deb(K)ate, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://puttingthekindebate.com/2012/05/09/transportation-infrastructure-investments-and-maternal-mobility/]]</span>
How does the...uphold the family**__.__**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">3)</span>** **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We must not sacrifice our identity to conform to the norms of a society or particular gender. This creates a universal that is damaging to both men and women</span>**
Luce **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Irigaray, 1996</span>**, I Love to You: Sketch for a Felicity within History, pg. 26-28
So how can...reduced to reproduction.
**We must resist the sacrifice of our identities to meet gender norms because this leads to dehumynization and a substantial decrease in the quality of life.**
Butler 2004, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Judith, prof of rhet & women’s studies @ Berkeley, __Undoing Gender__, p. 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Similarly, the transsexual...</span>or literal death.

=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
===__**Victimization K**__=== 
(against disabilities aff round 1)

A) Link: the affirmative discourse and appeals to action in the name of a helpless subject create a universal archetype of victimization which serves to essentialize both gender and culture.
Ratna Kapur, 2002 (Visiting Professor of Law, New York University School of Law; Director of the Centre for Feminist Legal Research, New Delhi, India "The tragedy of Victimization Rhetoric: Resurrecting the "Native" Subject in International/Post- Colonial Feminist Legal Politics" Harvard Human Rights Journal, vol 15, p 1-2, law.harvard.edu/students/orgs/hrj/iss15/kapur.shtml#Heading261) AC
"In the much...a sovereign state."

B) Impact: The reinforcement of victim imagery denies agency and difference, simultaneously disempowers those it seeks to emancipate, even while encouraging states to pass damaging legislation
Ratna Kapur, 2002 (Visiting Professor of Law, New York University School of Law; Director of the Centre for Feminist Legal Research, New Delhi, India "The tragedy of Victimization Rhetoric: Resurrecting the "Native" Subject in International/Post- Colonial Feminist Legal Politics" Harvard Human Rights Journal, vol 15, p 1-2, law.harvard.edu/students/orgs/hrj/iss15/kapur.shtml#Heading261) AC
"The victim subject...surveillance and regulation."

C) Alternative: Recognize alternate subjectivities as counter to the fiction of homogeneity and resit the urge to recreate the victim image through policy action.
Ratna Kapur, 2002 (Visiting Professor of Law, New York University School of Law; Director of the Centre for Feminist Legal Research, New Delhi, India "The tragedy of Victimization Rhetoric: Resurrecting the "Native" Subject in International/Post- Colonial Feminist Legal Politics" Harvard Human Rights Journal, vol 15, p 1-2, law.harvard.edu/students/orgs/hrj/iss15/kapur.shtml#Heading261) AC
"In challenging the...and inclusive politics."

D) Framework: Fiat is an illusion and the plan never passes but the way we talk about the world affects how we view and act toward the world.
Dr. Sonja Foss, 2004 communication scholar, UC-Denver, Rhetorical Criticism. Page 6 AC
"Another communicative function...have regarding them."

===Intersectionality=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A) Links </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">WHEN PEOPLE ATTEMPT TO BREAKDOWN SOCIETAL NORMS, THEY ARE OPPRESSED NOT JUST BY ONE CATEGORY. A COSYNTHESIS OF THIS OPPRESSION SOLVES.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Peter Kwan, May 1998 (Invention, Inversion and Intervention: The Oriental Woman in The World of Suzie Wong, M. Butterfly, and The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert LN) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Within white supremacist…of other forms. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">TO ATTEMPT TO COMPREHEND ONE FACET OF ONES IDENTITY WITHOUT UNDERSTANDING THE REST IS IMPOSSIBLE. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Peter **__Kwan__**, May **__1998__** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Invention, Inversion and Intervention: The Oriental Woman in The World of Suzie Wong, M. Butterfly, and The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert LN)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The language of…gender as white.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">THE OPPRESSION OF INDIVIDUALS GOES BEYOND THE STATIC IDENTITIES PINPOINTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Peter **__Kwan__**, May **__1998__** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Invention, Inversion and Intervention: The Oriental Woman in The World of Suzie Wong, M. Butterfly, and The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert LN)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cosynthesis, I submit</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">…of political struggles.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B) Impact </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">RAPE IS INEVITABLE IF WE DO NOT ADDRESS INTERSECTIONS OF OPPRESSION. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Peter Kwan, May 1998 (Invention, Inversion and Intervention: The Oriental Woman in The World of Suzie Wong, M. Butterfly, and The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert LN) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">These cosynthetic representations…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for its leniency. 63 </span>

<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">4) The imbalance in male-dominated societies is the root cause of environmental destruction, poverty, hunger, war and societal conflicts of all sorts.</span>**</span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">Chew in 1998,</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;"> Phyllis Chim Lian, Senior lecturer at the school of arts, Nanyang technological University, **__International Journal on World Peace, 1998,__**</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> //The Challenge of Unity: Women, Peace, and Power, p. 41//</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">There is a...together in harmony.</span>

**Alternative Text:** **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">UTILIZING A QUEER SPECTRUM ENCOMPASSES ALL DIFFERENT FORMS OF SEXUAL IDENTITY. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Peter **__Kwan__**, May **__1998__** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Invention, Inversion and Intervention: The Oriental Woman in The World of Suzie Wong, M. Butterfly, and The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert LN)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Queer identity is…all minority groups. 106</span>

==<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Case</span>== 
===solvency defense against disabilities aff=== 
==== ==== 
Addressing accessibility to transportation is insufficient – multiple other barriers prove the Aff doesn’t solve
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rosenbloom, 2007</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sandra, Professor of Planning at the University of Arizona, “Transportation Patterns and Problems of People with Disabilities”, The Future of Disability in America, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK11420/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Perhaps </span>the most ... transportation systems alone."

Fixating on transportation alone fails
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rosenbloom, 2007</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sandra, Professor of Planning at the University of Arizona, “Transportation Patterns and Problems of People with Disabilities”, The Future of Disability in America, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK11420/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Finally, </span>all evidence ... travelers with disabilities."

===Case against Port Security=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 21px; line-height: 32px;">Terrorism:</span>
**//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 14pt;">Turn: Terrorism is not the real threat to our society and the world. The real threat comes from the power we are giving to those who use terrorism as a tool to dominate us.</span>//**

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Annamarie Oliverio, professor at Stanford in the International Journal of Comparative Sociology, 1997.</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">[Annamarie Oliverio. “The State of Injustice: The Politics of Terrorism and the Production of Order.” International Journal of Comparative Sociology. June, 1997. Professor Oliverio teaches at Stanford University. jdudek]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Propaganda has always…organized fear campaign.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Solvency :</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Turn: It’s impossible to check every container-Doing so would collapse transportation stability.</span>__**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Virginia Pilot 2-5</span>**-12. [ http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-%E2%80%98boom-box%E2%80%99]

The technology isn’t…foot that bill.”


**//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 14pt;">Spending on security at ports will be misallocated and fail to solve</span>//**

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Veronique de Rugy, the Mercatus Center of George Mason University in</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;"> “Is Port Security Funding</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">Making Us Safer?”, </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">2007</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;"> [</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://web.mit.edu/cis/pdf/Audit_11_07_derugy.pdf%5D|http://web.mit.edu/cis/pdf/Audit_11_07_derugy.pdf]]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;"> JG</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">A close look…no nuclear bombs.</span>

==Topicality== 
A) Interpretation infrastructure does not include the military -
US law defines infrastructure as only non-military
National Infrastructure Improvement Act 7
(National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2007- Passed by the Senate,
http://uspolitics.about.com/od/legislation/l/bl_s775.htm, DOA: 6/27/12)
(4) INFRASTRUCTURE- (A) IN GENERAL...waste disposal facility
B) Violation
C) Ground
Limits
D) Voter for fairness and education

==D/A== 
A) UNIQUENESS
====1) Obama is winning but its close==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AP, 9/20</span>/12 (Associated Press, “Obama boosted by upbeat housing reports, new polls,” http://www.bostonherald.com/news/us_politics/view/20120920obama_boosted_by_upbeat_housing_reports_new_polls/srvc=home&position=recent, bgm)

Other new surveys…the dominant issue.

====B) LINK==== 
====1. No one wants new transportation spending==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Orski, 9/18</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (C. Kenneth Orski, public policy consultant and former principal of the Urban Mobility Corporation, “Confronting the Reality of Declining Federal Transportation Funding,” http://www.infrastructureusa.org/confronting-the-reality-of-declining-federal-transportation-funding/, bgm)</span>

“There is no…the federal contribution.

====2. The link only goes in our direction – the voters who are still undecided hate the government==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Greenman, 9/7</span>/12 (Joshua, New York Daily News, “Democratic and Republican conventions were great shows, but now fickle voters will decide who will win on Election Night,” [[http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/democratic-republican-conventions-great-shows-fickle-voters-decide-win-election-night-article-1.1154053]], bgm)

The conventions are…into the booth.

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**C) INTERNAL LINK** </span>
**__Internal Link: Republicans are against passing cybersecurity reform. It is imperative that Obama is re-elected to get the reform passed.__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brendan</span> **__Sasso__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">8/4/</span>**__12__**<span style="color: #111111; font-size: 8pt;">(After defeat of Senate cybersecurity bill, Obama weighs executive-order option) The Hill</span>
Senate Republicans recently…an executive order.


**D) IMPACT**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A knocked out power grid from a cyber attack can result in nuclear meltdown/extinction/mass dehumanization with a timeframe of a week as backup generators preventing nuclear reactor core meltdowns fail after a week. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(Steirn 3/24/12</span>** **<span style="background-color: #f7fafe; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">Matthew Stein is a design engineer, green builder and author</span>****<span style="background-color: #f7fafe; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>****<span style="background-color: #f7fafe; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">Stein is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he majored in mechanical engineering</span>****<span style="background-color: #f7fafe; font-size: 7pt;">, and </span>****<span style="background-color: #f7fafe; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">is a guest columnist for The Huffington Post.</span>** “<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Four Hundred Chernobyls: Solar Flares, Electromagnetic Pulses and Nuclear Armageddon</span>” [[http://truth-out.org/news/item/7301-400-chernobyls-solar-flares-electromagnetic-pulses-and-nuclear-armageddon]]**)**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Unfortunately, the world's…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">million years ago.</span>

**The cyber systems controlling the Power Grid are vulnerable. Cybersecurity reform needs to be passed in order to prevent a cyber attack on this system.**
**__The Economic Times__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">8/1/</span>**__12__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Power grid failure features in US lawmakers' cyber law debate)</span>
The US needs…people," Lieberman said.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]