[[toc]]
==Auto Tradeoff DA== 

**Auto Industry is matching pace with previous months and stocks are improving**
**Burroughs 8-20-12**(John, columnist for the property mentor group, 8-20-12, http://www.propertymentorgroup.com/auto-industry-has-a-strong-start-to-the-month-of-august-f-gm-hmc-tm/121736/)
Auto industry analysts and … current ratio of 1.05.

**New human transportation infrastructure hurts the auto industry.**
**Bethel 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Frazier Capital Valuatio; Masters in International Finance and European Business (Stephen, 1 December 2009, “The Valuation of Auto & Recreational Vehicle Dealership Operations,” Chapter 2, Frazier Capital, http://www.fraziercapital.com/books/auto/2.pdf</span>
Second, rivalry between existing … into the seller’s market.

**Key to the Navy**
**Ronis 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Prepared Statement of Dr. Sheila Ronis, Director, MBA/MS Programs, Walsh College; Vice President, National Defense University Foundation, Troy, Michigan CHINA’S IMPACT ON THE U.S. AUTO AND AUTO PARTS INDUSTRIES HEARING BEFORE THE U.S.­CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION ONE HUNDRED NINTH CONGRESS SECOND SESSION _ July 17, 2006 [[http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2006hearings/transcripts/july_17/06_07_17_trans.pdf]]</span>
In May 2001, the … with the auto industry.

**Solves great power wars**
**Conway et al 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]</span>
Deter major power war. … enable extended campaigns ashore.

==Weaponization DA== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against Weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>
As is well understood, … lurk in these details.

**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,”[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])</span>
Cooperation for contested and … responsible space-faring nations.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>
International cooperation is valuable … would be more likely.

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>
Perhaps of even greater … would be unacceptable to all.