[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==NIB 1AC - LSW== 


**The Advantage is Economy**

**Scenario** 1 **is Stimulus**

**Slow growth will persist now – only creating an NIB before pursuing deficit reduction can increase growth rates and insulate the economy from crisis in Europe and China**
**Schwenninger ~’10-29** (Sherle R. Schwenninger, Director, Economic Growth Program and American Strategy Program, and co-founder, New America Foundation, founding editor of World Policy Journal, and Senior Fellow at the World Policy Institute, former Senior Program Coordinator for the Project on Development, Trade, and International Finance at the Council on Foreign Relations, "The Missing Economic Debate," The Nation, 10-29-2012, [[http://newamerica.net/publications/articles/2012/the_missing_economic_debate_72715-http://newamerica.net/publications/articles/2012/the_missing_economic_debate_72715|http://newamerica.net/publications/articles/2012/the_missing_economic_debate_72715]])

Barack Obama and Mitt Romney agree on at least one thing: that this election
AND
of a major public investment program for creating jobs and supporting stronger growth.


**Infrastructure spending through an NIB is comparatively the best form of economic stimulus**
**Phillips et al. ~’10** (Charles Phillips, president of Oracle Corporation, AND Laura Tyson, professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, AND Robert Wolf, CEO and chairman of UBS Americas, "The U.S. Needs an Infrastructure Bank", 1/15/2010, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704586504574654682516084584.html-http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704586504574654682516084584.html|http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704586504574654682516084584.html]])

Our nation~’s investment in its physical infrastructure is far below what is necessary to meet
AND
and then justify its continued funding based on its performance and investment returns.

**Prefer expert studies —- the plan is a uniquely beneficial form of stimulus**
**Tyson ~’11** ~~[Laura D. Tyson, Chan Chair in Global Management at UC Berkeley~’s Haas School of Business, 2011, "A Better Stimulus Plan for the U.S. Economy", http://hbr.org/web/extras/hbr-agenda-2011/laura-d-tyson]

Although stimulus spending is a politically contentious issue, America is now in urgent need
AND
work in meaningful jobs. The time has come to make it happen.


**Scenario 2 is Transportation Infrastructure**

**Revitalizing transportation infrastructure is a prerequisite to recovery**
**Davidson ~’12** (Paul, 5/20/2012, "USA~’s creaking infrastructure holds back economy," http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-20/creaking-infrastructure/55096396/1)

Inland waterways quietly keep the nation~’s economy flowing as they transport %24180 billion of
AND
lower costs," Caterpillar Chief Financial Officer Ed Rapp says of the move.

**Infrastructure decline spills over to the entire economy —- prevents a resilient supply chain**
**Little ~’11** ~~[Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy, April 5, 2011, "Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness", http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]

The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in
AND
their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences.

**Transportation infrastructure upgrades are key to growth – NIB is key**
**Donahue ~’11** (Thomas J. Donohue, president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce, "The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure", 9/8/2011, http://www.csmonitor.com/layout/set/print/Commentary/Opinion/2011/0908/The-highway-to-jobs-via-better-infrastructure)

Throughout America~’s history, feats in infrastructure, like the Interstate Highway System, have
AND
first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are.



**Impacts**

**US economic stagnation leads to major war**
**Lieberthal %26 O~’Hanlon 12** (Kenneth Lieberthal and Michael O~’Hanlon, foreign policy scholars at the Brookings Institution, "The Real National Security Threat: America~’s Debt", 7/3/2012, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jul/03/opinion/la-oe-ohanlon-fiscal-reform-20120703)

Lastly, American economic weakness undercuts U.S. leadership abroad. Other countries
AND
possible if that fundamental prerequisite to effective foreign policy is not reestablished.


**Economic decline triggers war – best empirical evidence supports**
**Royal ~’10** – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.


**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through a national infrastructure bank.**



**Contention __ is Solvency**

**A Transportation-only national infrastructure bank attracts capital from the private sector, and transforms transportation infrastructure**
**Lovaas ~’11** (Deron Lovaas, Federal Transportation Policy Director for the National Resources Defense Council, "An Infrastructure Bank for Transportation", 6/28/2011, [[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html-http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html|http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html]])

Another creative funding idea that~’s getting some attention lately is a national infrastructure bank,
AND
good use of our limited public funds to vastly improve the status quo.


**NIB overcomes status quo structural problems – uses transparent cost-benefit analysis for project selection**
**McConaghy %26 Kessler ~’11** —- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, "A National Infrastructure Bank," [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf-http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf|http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]], p.4-5)

In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America~’s emerging infrastructure
AND
independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment.

**None of their generic turns apply – NIB uniquely secures private investment and investor confidence**
**Tyson ~’10** (Laura Tyson, Professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, was chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers and the National Economic Council in the Clinton administration. She is a member of President Obama~’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board. August 29, 2010, "Why We Need a Second Stimulus," NYT, Lexis)

OUR national debate about fiscal policy has become skewed, with far too much focus
AND
But for now the priorities of fiscal policy should be jobs and investment.


**Doesn~’t add to the long-term deficit—bank only needs start-up capital**
**Bloomberg ~’11** (Bloomberg, "A Bank That Can Get Americans on the Road and on the Job: View", Bloomberg, 8/10/2011, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/a-bank-that-can-get-americans-on-the-road-and-on-the-job-view.html-http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/a-bank-that-can-get-americans-on-the-road-and-on-the-job-view.html|http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/a-bank-that-can-get-americans-on-the-road-and-on-the-job-view.html]])

Enter the infrastructure bank, which would provide loans or loan guarantees for big projects
AND
such a bank should be seen as an investment, not "spending."


**NIB is key to private sector investment—Investor certainty**
**Miller et al ~’12** (Keith Miller, Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress. Formerly the deputy mayor for policy for the city of Philadelphia and secretary of policy and planning for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, AND Kristina Costa, Research Assistant in Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress. She has written on regulatory policy, government reform, innovation, education, and infrastructure, among other areas., AND Donna Cooper, intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress and a student at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute, "Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council: How Better Planning and Financing Options Can Fix Our Infrastructure and Improve Economic Competitiveness", September 2012, http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf, p.11)

An infrastructure bank would also help overcome the many problems associated with the annual appropriations
AND
critical federal loan programs that support them will exist in a year~’s time.


**Federal signal is key to energize the private sector and spur investment**
**Puentes ~’12** —- Senior Fellow, Metropolitan Policy Program at Brookings (7/16/2012, Robert, "What Would an Infrastructure Bank Really Do?" http://www.tnr.com/blog/the-avenue/105017/what-would-infrastructure-bank-really-do)

The related second point is that an NIB would ideally focus on projects that are
AND
a real hindrance to the development of the public-private partnership market.

==Violent Roadways 1AC - Districts== 

**We start the 1AC with a eulogy, commemorating the life of roadkill that we've encountered in our own lives. The eulogy changes according to the team.**

**This year’s resolution proposes “Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.” We find it disturbing that we have reached March without any discussion of the ongoing murder that transportation infrastructure entails. This is particularly relevant to the debate community because every tournament requires squads to drive on these sites of death. Every time we compete, we end lives. For our community to be ethical, we need to change our relationship to non-human animals. At a bare minimum, we need to be uncomfortable with the lives we end to have our discussions.**

**Transportation infrastructure induces the murder of countless animals. These violent deaths are so commonplace we have forgotten to care.**
**Soron ‘11** (Dennis Soron, associate professor of sociology @ Brock University, “Road Kill: Commodity Fetishism and Structural Violence”, chapter in Critical Theory and Animal Liberation, ed. John Sanbonmatsu, 2011, p.58-59)

Since James R. Simmons published his pioneering book Feathers and Fur on the Turnpike (1938) . . . but never empathy or concern.

**The expansion of transportation infrastructure threatens the extinction of multiple species on the altar of automotive-centered capitalism. Meanwhile, Road-induced animal deaths have become naturalized as the experience of driving distances us from embodied experience.**
**Soron ‘11** (Dennis Soron, associate professor of sociology @ Brock University, “Road Kill: Commodity Fetishism and Structural Violence”, chapter in Critical Theory and Animal Liberation, ed. John Sanbonmatsu, 2011, p.67-69)

The overall lack of critical public discourse . . . the pleasures and possibilities our own animal being.

**Constructing humans as exceptional in relation to other animals is rooted in the disavowal of our animal nature. Attempts to secure borders of ‘humanity’ historically cause the worst violence and come at the expense of others.**
**Stanescu ‘12** (James Stanescu, PhD student at Binghamton University's Philosophy, Interpretation, and Culture program, also the Director of Debate at Mercer University, and also serve as an adjunct professor there., Hypatia 27.3, 2012, p.)

THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE HUMAN Death and disavowal . . . fragile nature of any claims to human exceptionalism.

**Thus the Role of the Ballot is to endorse the team that best performatively or methadologically challenges human exceptionalism.**

**Our act of mourning affirms the precarious nature of all life. Current tendencies to inoculate our vulnerability lead to paradoxical wars for peace. Instead, shared embodied vulnerability and finitude becomes the basis for a new ethical politics**
**Stanescu ‘12** (James Stanescu, PhD student at Binghamton University's Philosophy, Interpretation, and Culture program, also the Director of Debate at Mercer University, and also serve as an adjunct professor there., Hypatia 27.3, 2012, p.)

Butler develops vulnerability and precariousness as an ethic . . . from determining which lives get to count as life.

**Mourning is inherently political – questions of ‘who gets to mourn’, ‘who is mournable’, and ‘where mourning is allowed’ determine who counts as alive in the first place**
**Stanescu ‘12** (James Stanescu, PhD student at Binghamton University's Philosophy, Interpretation, and Culture program, also the Director of Debate at Mercer University, and also serve as an adjunct professor there., Hypatia 27.3, 2012, p.)

MOURNING AS A POLITICAL ACT . . . very questions of how we constitute the political.

**We shouldn’t rush for quick-fix solutions. Dwelling on our powerlessness is vital to understanding our shared vulnerability with animals. It’s a prerequisite to policy success**
**Liebman ‘11** (Matthew Liebman, staff attorney at the Animal League Defense Fund, “ESSAY: WHO THE JUDGE A8TE FOR BREAKFAST: ON THE LIMITS OF CREATIVITY IN ANIMAL LAW AND THE REDEEMING POWER OF POWERLESSNESS”, Animal Law, 2011, 18 Animal L. 133, lexis)

I recently read a news story about a mother bear . . . "I am inasmuch as I am alongside the animal." n99


**Critique is an ongoing process – challenging speciesist assumptions through a sense of shared vulnerability on a cultural level is a prerequisite to institutional change**
**Thierman ‘11** (Stephen Thierman, Ph.D. candidate the University of Toronto, “The Vulnerability of Other Animals”, Journal for Critical Animal Studies, v.9, i.1-2, 2011, http://www.criticalanimalstudies.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/09/10.-Thierman-S-2011-Issue-1-2-The-Vulnerability-pp-182-208.pdf)

This essay does not advance any specific prescriptions . . . variety of human values and practices. 16









=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]