[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Capabilities Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Transportation barriers are a serious problem for people with disabilities and the ADA has not yet addressed these needs.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Rosenbloom 2k7</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sarah. The Future of Disability in America. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11898&page=525]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Transportation is an… medical service delivery</span>

People with disabilities can’t access the world around them.
Jean **Flynn** in **2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jean M. Flynn, June 29, 2012, “Lorain County Transit- an unacceptable situation”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://midlifeandtreachery.wordpress.com/2012/06/29/lorain-county-transit-an-unacceptable-situation/]], accessed 7/12/12</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Imagine you woke...talk about why I couldn’t get there,,,,,</span>

Transportation is the key issue regarding quality of life and human dignity amongst people with disabilities in the status quo.

**Fresher-Samways et al 2003**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[, Kathleen, Susan E. Roush, Kathy Choi, Yvette Desrosiers, and George Steel. "Perceived Quality of Life of Adults with Developmental and Other Signiﬁcant Disabilities." Disability and Rehabilitation 1097-1105 25.19 (2003): n. pag. Print.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Results: The highest PQOL was noted…</span>and employment services

Every human ought to have central capabilities in order to become capable of achieving eudaimonia.

**Nussbaum 2011****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Martha C. Prof of Ethics and somesuch @ UofC Capabilities, Entitlements, Rights:Supplementation and Critique, Journal of Human Development and Capabilities: A Multi-Disciplinary Journal for People-Centered Development, 12:1, 23-37]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In my two books about the CA,… beings with severe mental disabilities (Nussbaum, 2005, 2008).</span>

The first and foremost role of the ballot is to vote for the best ethical stance.
<span style="color: #101010; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">If the negative cannot defend their ethics-which are the basis for how they make decisions- then it is not your job as the judge to vote them up. We still defend links to the plan as long as the negative proves why their impacts matter.</span>

The questions of capability and dignity are prepolitical
**Nussbaum 2011****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Martha C. Prof of Ethics and somesuch @ UofC Capabilities, Entitlements, Rights:</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Supplementation and Critique, Journal of Human Development and Capabilities: A Multi-Disciplinary Journal for People-Centered Development, 12:1, 23-37]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nor are human beings the only creatures with fundamental entitlements…. been overwhelmingly the most common type of human rights theory.</span>

All the central capabilities must be accounted for, if even one is lost or diminished you are unethical.
**Nussbaum 2006**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [Martha Craven. Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership. Cambridge, MA: Belknap, 2006. Print.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Does the approach therefore prevent…. freedom of association. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">All are required by justice.)</span>

A failure to extend equal rights to people with disabilities leads to dehumanization and genocide. This is the root cause of mass killing and war.
**Moshman 2007**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[, David, "Us and Them: Identity and Genocide" (2007). Educational Psychology Papers and Publications. Paper 87. http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/edpsychpapers/87]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dehumanization reinforces and extends dichotomization….</span>. If not, it may be genocide.

The treatment of people with disabilities turns them into a Homo Sacer
**Overboe 2007**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [, James. "Disability and Genetics: Affirming the Bare Life (the State of Exception)." CRSA/RCSA (2007): n. pag. Web.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The theories of Giorgio Agamben allow me to….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">except as a "state of exception."</span>

Homo Sacer is ultimately Bare Life, where one is a dead man walking.
**Sirnes, 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[ Thorvald "Deviance or Homo Sacer? Foucault, Agamben and Foetal Diagnostics." Scandinavian Journal of Disability Research 7.3-4 (2005): 206-19. Print]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: AdvTR,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the Sovereign,…. time we may do whatever we want to the exposed</span>

Plan: The United States federal government should provide all necessary funding for Computer Assisted Universally Designed transportation infrastructure.

Rather than creating categories of solutions the plan models the //Individuals with Disabilities Education Act// (IDEA) and creates individualized programs for providing access.
**Nussbaum 2006****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[Martha Craven. //Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership//. Cambridge, MA: Belknap, 2006. Print.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With this conception of social cooperation established, or at least prominently… preschool-age children, and the funding of research and professional training.)</span>

Only a singular capabilities approach solves – other policy types turn people with disabilities into //types// rather than individuals and consequently dehumanizing them.
**Nussbaum 2006,**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Martha Craven. Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership. Cambridge, MA: Belknap, 2006. Print.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>insisting on the singleness<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">….</span>defined<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> entirely </span>bytheir<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> type </span>characteristics<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

The USFG has an ethical obligation to secure the central capabilities.
**Nussbaum 2011:** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Martha C. Prof of Ethics and somesuch @ UofC Capabilities, Entitlements, Rights:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Supplementation and Critique, Journal of Human Development and Capabilities: A Multi-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Disciplinary Journal for People-Centered Development, 12:1, 23-37]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nonetheless, I do not agree with Sen that rights (or the central capabilities) …</span>If it has not, it is not even minimally just.

Legislative action is necessary to guarantee access.
**Nussbaum 2011**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">:</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Martha C. Prof of Ethics and somesuch @ UofC Capabilities, Entitlements, Rights:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Supplementation and Critique, Journal of Human Development and Capabilities: A Multi-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Disciplinary Journal for People-Centered Development, 12:1, 23-37]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout my own work on the CA, I have…. practitioners do typically perform this further work).</span>

Computer Assisted Universal Design allows for an ontological knowledge representations that ensure creativity and a more effective relations to people with disabilities.
**Afacan and Demirkan 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Yasemin and Halime, dep. Of interior architecture and environmental design, 11 may,]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this paper, </span>we present a novel ontology<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> who carried out the acceptability studies.</span>

MAP-21 funding has already been signed into law, and its funding will be discussing during September (FY 2014).
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snyder 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tanya, “How MAP-21 pushed transit to the edge of its own fiscal cliff”, [[http://dc.streetsblog.org/2012/11/15/how-map-21-pushed-transit-to-the-edge-of-its-own-fiscal-cliff/]], nov 15]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">greater difficulty reaching job opportunities.</span>

Pure consequentialism is impossible – there are too many reactions that are unforeseeable – as an alternative, we suggest a view of morals. This is because we can understand the virtue of an action but we can never understand the consequences
**Lenman 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Univeristy of Glasglow and the United Kingdom Arts and Humanities Research Board.Consequentialism and Cluelessness Author(s): James Lenman Reviewed work(s): Source: Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Autumn, 2000), pp. 342-370 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2672830 . Accessed: 24/07/2012 09:53</span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">A</span> typical morally significant… story would precisely not be consequentialist.__

=Negative= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; display: block; font-family: 'lucida grande',tahoma,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">China Fund CP</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; display: block; font-family: 'lucida grande',tahoma,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">XO CP</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; display: block; font-family: 'lucida grande',tahoma,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">Hagel PTX Scenario</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; display: block; font-family: 'lucida grande',tahoma,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">Debt Ceiling PTX Scenario</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; display: block; font-family: 'lucida grande',tahoma,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">Heidegger K</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; display: block; font-family: 'lucida grande',tahoma,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">Deleuze K</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]