[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

**The role of the ballot for this debate is to both performatively and methodologically challenge the oppressive structures directly tied to transportation infrastructure policy. Your ballot acts as an endorsement of utilizing the debate space as a safe place for queer political practices in the hard search and struggle for a place to call home.** 

<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">**The underground trains of New York, The back streets of Miami, To the cross roads of** </span>**Haight**<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;"> **and Ashbury.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">**We are not here for protection status, we're here because we are done with transportation infrastructure being used as the cold spot on the ground for displaced teenagers to sleep on. Our investment in transportation infrastructure relies on an invested investigation of the way space is always reserved for the hatred filled elites. Your ballot is the safe zone sign we're looking for so let's make debate another stable stepping stone on the path to true citizenship and resistance.** </span>


<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">we cast a wide, wide net here</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">you say we feel //safe// here</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">here we have //diversity// so we can fervently embrace //dormancy//, ignore the urgency of our //adversity// and personally embrace //hypocracy//</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">all in the name of //disharmony//, //anti-conformity//, we fight with //insurgency//, all furtively, you will never truly end the //normalcy// of oppression with this //exclusivity//, we must all take this //personally,// debate is //enormously// full of **__empty voices__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">and so you see, it’s time to talk about me</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">five //years// ago I began to feel //queer// and so I fought the //fear,// although my parents had never been vocally //severe// on the gays I couldn’t shake what I’d learned in my Catholic school years</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">endlessly entwined in societies designed to leave me behind, confined to their state of mind, resigned to the identity I was assigned, declined the chance to findthe label that was mine, trapped in a house </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">but not a home</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">had a bed, roof over my head, always fed, but misread, mislead by those who said they knew best, unrest, never addressed the suppressed, distressed, I must confess I was possessed by casual homophobia, never protest-ed on behalf of the oppressed-and I was a mess-and</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">then I was queer </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">middle school, I was a fool, we were all tools, tried to be cool, no one knew who they were or what was true, thought I was bi, tried to die because I hated what-was going on, in my life, too much strife</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">lost my friends, lost my voice, being queer ain’t a //choice,// but openness //is// one </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">it took a while, to find my style, I’ll omit the bit ‘bout tryin’ to commit to a label that wasn’t mine, although labels are fine, I just needed to find a sign, find what was mine, line-</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">pansexual doesn’t rhyme with anything</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">but boom, I bloomed, I mean, I assume it had something to //do// with what I //knew,// </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">who I was but just because I was okay, didn’t mean they had //swayed// on their positions but hey, what can I say, I didn’t stray,</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">made new friends near the end, still doesn’t amend //society//, excuse lack of //variety//, we must silently //accept// where we’ve been kept, except for today, won’t stay, in a land of banned //feelings,// dealing with healing, barely existing, because I can’t be heard here, I disappear here, so this year I’ll make it clear,</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">debate’s seldom a space where we can be //welcome,// let’s fix it, bit by bit hit the parts that omit queer //voices//, being queer ain’t a choice but //this// is, let’s make a home for the //homeless,// not the //literal// but the figurative //hopeless,// we all need to know where home //is,// </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">it’s where we can be //heard,// speak our //words,// end the cycle of oppression, repression, aggression, depression, in this debate we create a space to sate the needs of us queers, eliminate the fears found in our current social spheres, and make debate our home</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Because the fact is, I’ve never not had a house.</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">From the homes of my parents to my aunt’s little condo, shoved into the space between Dodge and Farnam, there has always been a roof over my head. Sometimes they weren’t particularly attractive roofs; usually an uncomfortable mix of alcoholism, abuse, and neglect resided beneath. Nevertheless, they were roofs. Roofs, and four walls, and that special brand of warmth that makes everything vaguely cozy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">There’s a sort of base comfort there, a privilege that many people in my community don’t share. Despite being out to neither my aunt nor my father, it’s unlikely that I’ll lose that privilege anytime soon.</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">I am queer, but I have a house. I experience the same systematic oppression as the less fortunate within my community, but it has not affected my material possessions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Unfortunately, I’ve never had a home.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 14pt;">**Many people have not shared my same privilege.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 14pt;">**Samantha Box in 10** </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 9pt;">**(March, 2010 Invisible: The Crisis of LGBT Youth Homelessness)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">__According to a U.S. Department of Health and Human Services__ __estimate, the count of homeless and runaway youth ranges from 575,000 to 1.6 million per year. Out of that number, it is conservatively estimated that between 20 and 40 percent identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender__ (LGBT). __Given that between 3 and 5 percent of the American population identifies as LGBT____, the figures make it starkly clear: across America, in its major cities, and suburban and rural counties, a disproportionate share of the tragedy of youth homelessness falls on the backs of LGBT young people. Mostly poor and minority, many of these young people come from homes marred by instability, conflict, abuse, neglect, or parental drug use. In many cases, coming out as LGBT was the final factor that forced these young adults out of their homes: one-third were assaulted by a family member upon revealing their sexual orientation or gender identity, and over a quarter were kicked out of their homes outright. Having experienced this violent rejection at home, in church or school, or, in some cases, in foster care, many LGBT youth turn to the street, and its grim realities. Too often, sex work and survival crime, drug abuse and mental illness become a part of everyday life, as animosity towards their sexual orientation or gender expression at mainstream shelters and programs effectively bars them from receiving the meager services available to homeless youth, services that might take them towards stability. By being homeless in a society that discriminates against LGBT people, these young people have been rejected twice: first by their homes, families and communities, and then by the services and systems that are supposed to help and protect them. Caught in the intersection of race, poverty, gender expression and sexuality, these young adults fight to find their way through a society that chooses not to see or help them.__ </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">In 2005, disturbed by the silence surrounding this issue and seeking to put a face on this little-known crisis, I began photographing the residents of Sylvia's Place (MCCNY Homeless Youth Services: Sylvia's Place), New York City's only emergency shelter for homeless LGBT youth; its 30 beds comprise over half of the shelter space specifically designated for the upwards of 8,000 homeless young LGBT people in New York City. Using the shelter as a “home base”, I have spent countless hours with these young people, bearing witness to hidden and intimate aspects of their existence: working as a prostitute on “the stroll”; crying at the grave of the mother that left them too soon; kissing their new boyfriend; spending a last Mother's Day with children that they will never see again; moments of introspection. By eschewing exploitative visual stereotypes of homelessness, youth, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and especially gender non-conformity, I believe that these images truthfully show the urgency of their lives. In a perfect world, these young people would not be ignored: we would all be aware, not only of their daily struggles, but also of the hope that they have for their future selves. It is my hope that these images can bring awareness to the crisis of LGBT youth homelessness, and thus bring about positive change in the lives of this neglected population.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">**Modern society and cookie cutter Martha Stuart Living and Betty Crocker family values dictate that these matters are always ones that should be dealt with in private, but how can you keep something in the privacy of a home that doesn’t exist? It is this notion of isolation that will always separate queer discourse and prevent it from accessing the ranks of citizen discourse, and furthermore Isolation only serves to justify the violent removal of queer discourse in the public space. The struggle to find place and citizenship in high schools was and still is a battle hard fought. While the GSA remains protected at least in our high school, let our advocacy not be excluded from the realm of debate.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 15pt;">Debra Burrington 98 </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">(**The Public Square and Citizen Queer':Toward a New Political Geography Polity, Vol. 31, no. 1 (Autumn 1998)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">**__Kelli Peterson, a quiet 17 year old, provided the impetus behind formation of the Gay/Straight Alliance at East High School__****__. When asked__** </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">**early in the controversy** </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">**__why she and others wanted such a club, she stated that she started the group "to end the misery and isolation of being gay in high school."__3 __Her answer identifies the second mechanism by which members of marginalized groups are denied full citizenship____. Just as silence in public discourse allows dominant groups to separate what they regard as marginal from what they accept as normal, isolation reinforces that separation by physical means. Both contribute to the sense that a particular group is less worthy of joining in the life of civil society. Isolation is made possible by privacy, the invidious functions of which have been well analyzed elsewhere.33 The basic American reverence for privacy in familial and sexual matters enables the marginalization of some forms of family and sexuality under the guise of privacy as a "good thing" and an essential foundation of democracy. The "family" is protected by a principle called privacy, and society is protected from having to see or hear things that are best left to "private life." Opponents of the Gay/Straight Alliance sought to apply both invisibility and isolation. When prominent public leaders advocated silence about homosexuality-" I don't want it promoted in the public schools"-they were also calling for efforts to separate homosexuality physically, to keep it separate from the "normal" kids at school. Senator Charles Stewart, a vocal opponent of the Gay/Straight Alliance, advocated eliminating all school clubs or giving up federal funds for schools if that is what would be necessary to prevent the Alliance from meeting. At one point in the controversy h e remarked:" I think [homosexuality] is such a threat to our society, our children and our families that if the only way to keep these clubs from organizing is to ban all clubs, I'll vouch__** </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">**[sic]**</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;"> **__for that__.**</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">**"34**</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">**__Gayle Ruzicka__****__, head of Utah's Eagle Forum-which boasts a mailing list of 23,000-expressed concern about homosexuals coming onto school campuses and recruiting children. This led her to propose banning clubs like the Gay/Straight Alliance from school grounds and repeatedly suggested that gay students should go instead to the local gay/lesbian community center to meet.__**</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">**35** </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">**__The students regularly countered these attempts to isolate them by saying that part of the reason they should be allowed to meet at school and__** **__to discuss ways to make school a safer and more welcoming place for them was because this is where they encounter some of the greatest threats to their existence. For some of them, declaring their homosexuality meant home and church were no longer places__** **__of safety. Most of them report having been victims of verbal harassment and physical violence while many teachers and administrators turned their backs and kept silent and some even contributed to the harassment__****__.__-__During the school board__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">**__hearing at which over 100 people spoke to the club issue__** **__(the majority favoring keeping all clubs, including the Gay/Straight Alliance), opponents repeatedly suggested that the students meet at local churches, students' homes, local coffee houses, or places such as the YWCA, rather than risk the elimination of other clubs just to have their own on school grounds. The leader of one of the parent-teacher associations remarked that most parents believe that homosexual clubs have no place in the public schools.__**</span>
<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;"> </span>
**We shall repeat the role of the ballot: The role of the ballot for this debate is to both performatively and methodologically challenge the oppressive structures directly tied to transportation infrastructure policy. Your ballot acts as an endorsement of utilizing the debate space as a safe place for queer political practices in the hard search and struggle for a place to call home.** 
=Negative= 

We run arguments involving structural violence/Cap K, but here's the generic shell of cards we typically read:

SourceURL:file://localhost/Users/41368/Downloads/Hobosexuals%201NC.docx
**I as a member of Westside high school am here as an ally to LGBTQ people. My purpose in being here is to advance a queer political agenda, which exposes the unspoken, and unseen structural consequences of the discussions we have about transportation infrastructure. We ask a simple question, when do we ever stop and consider the plight of those who are disproportionately forced to live on the very spaces and places our fictional debate space occupies. At the end of this debate you will vote for a rejection of their non-material inaccessible brand of advocacy and embrace our move for a material struggle against class structures that operate to disadvantage homeless youths in most cases not much older than ourselves.**

**We’ll start with the stats…** 

<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">**Samantha Box in 10**</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 9pt;">**(March, 2010 Invisible: The Crisis of LGBT Youth Homelessness)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">__According to a U.S. Department of Health and Human Services__ __estimate, the count of homeless and runaway youth ranges from 575,000 to 1.6 million per year. Out of that number, it is conservatively estimated that between 20 and 40 percent identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender__ (LGBT). __Given that between 3 and 5 percent of the American population identifies as LGBT, the figures make it starkly clear____: across America, in its major cities, and suburban and rural counties, a disproportionate share of the tragedy of youth homelessness falls on the backs of LGBT young people. Mostly poor and minority, many of these young people come from homes marred by instability, conflict, abuse, neglect, or parental drug use. In many cases, coming out as LGBT was the final factor that forced these young adults out of their homes: one-third were assaulted by a family member upon revealing their sexual orientation or gender identity, and over a quarter were kicked out of their homes outright. Having experienced this violent rejection at home, in church or school, or, in some cases, in foster care, many LGBT youth turn to the street, and its grim realities. Too often, sex work and survival crime, drug abuse and mental illness become a part of everyday life, as animosity towards their sexual orientation or gender expression at mainstream shelters and programs effectively bars them from receiving the meager services available to homeless youth, services that might take them towards stability. By being homeless in a society that discriminates against LGBT people, these young people have been rejected twice: first by their homes, families and communities, and then by the services and systems that are supposed to help and protect them. Caught in the intersection of race, poverty, gender expression and sexuality, these young adults fight to find their way through a society that chooses not to see or help them.__ </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">In 2005, </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">__disturbed by the silence surrounding this issue and seeking to put a face on this little-known crisis__</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;"> __I began photographing the residents of__</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;"> Sylvia's Place (MCCNY Homeless Youth Services: Sylvia's Place), </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">__New York City's only emergency shelter for homeless LGBT youth; its 30 beds comprise over half of the shelter space specifically designated for the upwards of 8,000 homeless young LGBT people in New York City. Using the shelter as a “home base”,____I have spent countless hours with these young people, bearing witness to hidden and intimate aspects of their existence: working as a prostitute on “the stroll”; crying at the grave of the mother that left them too soon; kissing their new boyfriend; spending a last Mother's Day with children that they will never see again; moments of introspection. By eschewing exploitative visual stereotypes of homelessness, youth, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and especially gender non-conformity, I believe that these images truthfully show the urgency of their lives. In a perfect world, these young people would not be ignored: we would all be aware, not only of their daily struggles, but also of the hope that they have for their future selves. It is my hope that these images can bring awareness to the crisis of LGBT youth homelessness, and thus bring about positive change in the lives of this neglected population.__</span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman;"> </span>
**Unfortunately these statistics are never looked at or analyzed in the world of a state centered political agenda. Society crippled by the stranglehold of capitalism and a political system that enforces it only serves the interests of the elites in society and willingly ignores the plight of people over the interests of furthering crooked political agendas. It sacrifices people in the name of its own preservation. The state was and still is a tool utilized by the elites to preserve power and assure the silence, invisibility, and death of the structurally oppressed.** 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Mumia Abu Jamal indicates –** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998[“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

__It has often been observed that **America is a truly violent nation**____,__ __as shown by the thousands of cases of social and communal violence that occurs daily in the nation. **Every year**, some **20,000 people are killed by others, and** additional **20,000** folks **kill themselves**. Add to this the non lethal violence that Americans daily inflict on each other,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and we begin to see the tracings of a nation immersed in a fever of violence. But, as remarkable, and harrowing as this level and degree of violence is, it is, by far, not the most violent feature of living in the midst of the American empire.</span> **__We live__**__, equally immersed____, and to a deeper degree, **in a nation that condones and ignores wide-ranging "structural" violence**, of a kind **that destroys human life with a breathtaking ruthlessness**.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Former Massachusetts prison official and writer, Dr. James</span> __Gilligan observes; **“By structural violence' I mean the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society**, as contrasted by those who are above them.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of the class structure; and that structure is itself a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting `structural' with `behavioral violence' by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on." -- (Gilligan, J., MD, Violence: Reflections On a National Epidemic (New York: Vintage, 1996), 192.)</span> **__This form of violence__**__,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not covered by any of the majoritarian, corporate, ruling-class protected media,</span> **__is invisible__** __to us **and because of its invisibility, all the more insidious**__**__.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> How dangerous is it -- really? Gilligan notes:</span> **__"[E]very fifteen years__**__,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">on the average,</span> **__as many people die because of__** relative **__poverty as would be killed in a nuclear war__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that caused 232 million deaths;</span> **__and every__** single **__year, two to three times as many people die from poverty throughout the world as were killed by__ __the Nazi genocide__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the Jews over a six-year period.</span> **__This is__**, in effect, **__the equivalent of an ongoing____,__** __unending, in fact **accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide on the weak and poor every year of every decade,** throughout the world."__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Gillitgan, p. 196]</span> __Worse still, in a thoroughly capitalist society, much of **that violence became internalized**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, turned back on the Self,</span> **__because, in a society based on the priority of wealth, those who own nothing are taught to loathe themselves, as if something is__** __inherently **wrong with themselves, instead of the social order**__ __that promotes this self-loathing. **This** intense self-hatred was often **manifested in familial violence** as **when the husband beats the wife, the wife smacks the son,** and **the kids fight each other. This** vicious, **circular, and invisible violence**, unacknowledged by the corporate media, **uncriticized in** substandard **educational systems, and un- understood by the** very **folks who suffer in its grips, feeds on the** spectacular and **more common forms of violence** that **the system makes** damn sure -that we can recognize and must react to it. This fatal and systematic violence may be called The War on the Poor.It is found in every country, submerged beneath the sands of history, buried, yet ever present, as omnipotent as death. In the struggles over the commons in Europe, when the peasants struggled and lost their battles for their commonal lands (a precursor to similar struggles throughout Africa and the Americas), this violence was sanctified, by church and crown, as the 'Divine Right of Kings' to the spoils of class battle.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Scholars Frances Fox-Piven and Richard A Cloward wrote, in The New Class War (Pantheon, 1982/1985): </span>__They did not lose because landowners were immune to burning and preaching and rioting. They lost because the usurpations of owners were regularly defended by the legal authority and the armed force of the state. It was the state that imposed increased taxes or enforced the payment of increased rents, and evicted or jailed those who could not pay the resulting debts. It was the state that made lawful the appropriation by landowners of the forests, streams, and commons, and imposed terrifying penalties on those who persisted in claiming the old rights to these resources. It was the state that freed serfs or emancipated sharecroppers only to leave them landless. (52) The "Law", then, was a tool of the powerful to protect their interests, then, as now. It was a weapon against the poor and impoverished, then, as now. It punished retail violence, while turning a blind eye to the wholesale violence daily done by their class masters. **The law** was, and **is,** a tool of state power, **utilized to protect the status quo, no matter how oppressive** that status was, or is. **Systems are** essentially **ways of doing things that have concretized into tradition,** and custom, **without regard to the rightness of those ways. No system that causes this kind of harm to people should be allowed to remain,** based solely upon its time in existence. Systems must serve life, or be discarded as a threat and a danger to life. **Such systems must pass away, so** that **their** great and terrible **violence passes away with them.**__ 

**The queer on the streets or Hobosexual is a product of Capitalism infused structural violence, yet fights it at the same time. This identity group, of which I am an ally, screams the truth about the horrors of capital accumulation and further reveals the manic fluctuations of capital that destabilize these populations of homeless youth making them the ideal site for anti-capital resistance. Our alternative is an interrogation into the way transportation infrastrucure policy and the queer perspective interact.** 
**Heather Tapley in 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mapping the hobosexual: A queer materialism. //Sexualities// 2012 15: 373 DOI: 10.1177/1363460712439648 The online version of this article can be found at:</span>
<span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">http://sex.sagepub.com/content/15/3-4/373)</span>
<span style="color: #141413;"> </span>
<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">Because</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__this__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;"> molar </span><span style="color: #141413;">**__aggregate__** </span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">inherently includes and </span><span style="color: #141413;">**__relies on the molecular and its constant assembling and disassembling, the hobosexual as embodied resistance is always unstable__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">. For Deleuze and Guattari, this unstable subject is engendered by a desire based in pleasure, a desire embodied by what Hennessy critically refers to as ‘the undifferentiated subject of self-enjoyment’ (2000: 71).</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__The hobosexual__**, </span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">generated out of a working-class and poor labor history, however, </span><span style="color: #141413;">**__represents this fragmented subject as a product of class relations – in the selling of his labor, the hobo separated and objectified part of himself to sell on the market, resulting in a non-unified subject__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">**__.__** This difference in theorizing the fragmented subject is crucial</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__because it resignifies the queer subject as not only fragmented, but both a product of capitalism and an embodiment of capitalist resistance.__** **__Locating the hobosexual at the intersection of queer/anti-capitalist sex and work practices accentuates both the temporality and partiality of the molecular, but also recognizes the determinant conditions of capital that affect the degree of movement within the molecular. The instability of the hobosexual at the molar level as an identity of doing, then, reflects the instability of capitalism itself.__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">Even Deleuze and Guattari (1996) reference the capitalist processes of deterritorialization and reterritorialization, or the liberation of desire that is then consistently reconfigured into different commodity forms to maintain surplus value.</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__Alterations in capitalist production, particularly its busts and booms__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">, gauge the degree to which hobosexual practices occur as well, and it is these market fluctuations that</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__cause the instability of the hobosexual as an embodiment of anti-capitalist practices.__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">In mapping practice/desire at the molecular level – these ‘non-specific connections, inclusive disjunctions, nomadic conjunctions’ (1996: 143) –I want to stress the movement, the transience, the nomadic of the American hobo and of hobosexual practices, but I also recognize that it is capit- alism that determines the material reality, or the degree, of such mobility</span><span style="color: #141413;">. </span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">My focus on historicizing the hobo also differs from Deleuze and Guattari’s recurrent refer- ence to the nomad metaphorically. According to Kaplan (1996), the nomad as metaphor erases the material histories of actual nomadic subjects; while Deleuze and Guattari claim to deterritorialize desire from organized sexuality, they actually reterritorialize the nomad as a metaphor for such desire.In mapping the hobosex- ual, therefore, it is imperative I historicize the American hobo.</span>


**Finally, the hobosexual is the site of non-productive expenditure and the place of intersection of various identity categories making it an ideal starting point for resistance to capitalism. All those who have been denied their full potential as human beings by the smooth production of capital have a place in this alternative. Everyone should align themselves with the resistors.** 
**Heather Tapley in 2012**
(Mapping the hobosexual: A queer materialism. //Sexualities// 2012 15: 373 DOI: 10.1177/1363460712439648 The online version of this article can be found at:
<span style="color: blue;">http://sex.sagepub.com/content/15/3-4/373)</span>

<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">What</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__mapping the hobosexual accomplishes__**, </span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">that neither identity politics nor even hobo history achieves, is what Hennessy imagines as</span><span style="color: #141413;">**__a queer anti-capitalist connection between ‘all of capitalism’s disenfranchised subjects’__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">(Hennessy, 2000: 229). Extending Kelsh’s (2000) scholarship, Hennessy shifts the focus of queer politics from identity onto the capitalist production of ‘outlawed human needs,’ arguing that capitalism has, since the 19th century, organized ‘sensation and affect’ to reflect the logic of exploitation and surplus value (Hennessy, 2000: 217).</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__In producing a difference between sanctioned needs and those outlawed, capitalism has denied citizens of various practices, including those of same-sex sexuality, their full potential as human beings.__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">The hobosexual is part of the project Hennessy imagines.</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__The concept suspends the identity of being in identity politics in order to connect subjects through anti-capitalist practice, and these conscientious objectors to capitalism are driven by the pursuit of fulfilling the needs of nonproductive expenditure outlawed under capitalism.__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">As well, </span><span style="color: #141413;">**__while the hobosexual is generated out of American hobo history__**, </span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">the concept,</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__in its focus on anti-capitalist practice and not hobo identity, makes pos- sible the connections between subjects whom hobo identity has prohibited__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">histor- ically. Elsewhere, for instance, I have noted the exclusionary practices of hobo organizations of the early-20th century.7 Countering the discursive production of the hobo as a tramp by government and medical authorities, hobo organizations resignified the hobo as ‘a good man willing to work,’ a good man who traveled only in search of work, while the tramp was defined as a man who traveled but refused to labor (Hobo News Out, 1915: 7).8 In promoting these hierarchical differences, hobo organizations not only Othered the tramp, but did so by relying on capitalist tramp discourse and definition. Excluded as well were women from the hobo appel- lation,9 and hobo subculture was also particularly raced. DePastino notes, for example, that African-American migratory laborers were ‘systematically barred’ from Chicago’s hobohemia, and Asian-American workers were ‘shut out from the cheap hotels and employment agencies of hobohemian neighborhoods’ (2003: 77).</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__The hobosexual__**, </span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">if an identity at all an identity of doing,</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__is significant, for with an emphasis on class and practices of nonproductive expenditure, this concept opens up and makes available historical queer connections at the intersection of anti- capitalist practices. In doing so, the hobosexual represents a queer site of sus- pended identity, but a concept also able to include differences in race, gender, sex, sexuality and ability. For capitalism has historically produced these differences as Other to the valued bourgeois national subject, rendering the pursuit of needs associated with these disenfranchised citizens__**</span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">potentially</span><span style="color: #141413;"> **__anti-capitalist__** </span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 9pt;">and, there- fore, political.</span>