== == 
[[toc]]
== == 
=1AC= 

==__Plan__:== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the Port Security Grant Program.
==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention One is Inherency –</span>== 
(1. <span style="background-color: yellow;">Vital port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a successful WMD attack are high </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frantz, 7-15</span>-12 – Douglas, “Port security: U.S. fails to meet deadline for scanning of cargo containers,” Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html]].
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> administration has </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">failed to meet a</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND </span>
//w//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">eapon of </span>//m//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">ass </span>//d//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">estruction </span>into the //U//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates.”</span>
(2. //Solutions exist// but __drastic__ cuts to the Port Security Grant Program __destroy port security__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security
AND
to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This week </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Security Industry Association</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (SIA</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
are //scalable// and //ready to be implemented now//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>
(3. Cost and technology aren’t barriers – failure to act immediately is __fatal__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al, ’12</span> – Jerrold L
AND
.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MILLIONS of </span>cargo containers<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are unloaded from ships </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
Our nation can //no longer risk//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such </span>//delays//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
(4. __Only__ more grant investment in infrastructure can solve
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA, ’11</span> – The American Association of
AND
.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the decade since Sept. 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and important partners in our national defense."</span>

==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Two is the National Preparedness Goal – </span>== 
(1. The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency
AND
/port-security-grant-program.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. What is the purpose of the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of the core capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">within the NPG</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

(2. The NPG is critical to __coordination__ against __large-scale__, __catastrophic__ events
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of
AND
.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">you for your commitment to our national preparedness. </span>

(3. __Federal__ Interagency Operational Plans to strengthen the NPG are due on __September 25th__ – that halts __cyberterror__, __pandemics__ , __natural disasters__ and __transnational threats__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency
AND
.
National preparedness is aimed at strengthening the security
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in all of our PPD-8 efforts. </span>

(4. The NPG is //necessary// to solving __each__ internal link
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>
AND
.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In accordance with PPD-8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.</span>

(5. __Cybersecurity__ is vital to prevent __escalatory__ __great power__ nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations
AND
_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper will analyse the threat of cyber </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
__need for compromising command and control centres directly.__

(6. __Pandemics__ at ports //instantly// kill __billions__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Greger, ‘6</span>**–** Director of Public
AND
” http://www.Birdflubook.com]
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A pandemic today could be many times worse</span>
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579</span>

(7. Pandemics outweigh on __probability__ and __size__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Fareed, “
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat
AND
//No such expertise exists// for today's deadliest threat.

(8. __Natural disasters__ threaten human extinction __faster__ than any warscenario
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah
AND
]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The human species has never been exposed to </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
**__the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.__**

(9. Transnational threats are try or die for human extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Feffer, ‘9</span>. John, Contributing
AND
Vol. 4 No. 7. Lexis.
**__The neoconservative movement thrilled to__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">what it called </span>
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">hear the adding machine totting up the numbers. </span>

(10. //Only// the NPG can develop a __framework__ for //effective// __risk management__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency
AND
.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FEMA has developed a set of Frequently Asked </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, please contact us at PPD8-Engagement.</span>

(11. The __process__ of the plan is vital – it shapes __core budget decisions__ and //all// future federal assistance
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>
AND
.
The Goal is designed to prepare our Nation
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">on updated priorities and our resource </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> posture.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Three is Energy Security – </span>== 
(1. <span style="background-color: yellow;">Seaport security is vital to preventing attacks on key oil, nuclear and LNG terminals </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Most US energy power plants, critical bridges
AND
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">a central role in confronting such seaborne threats.</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow;">(2. It’s </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">empirically proven</span>__</span><span style="background-color: yellow;"> that these forms of infrastructure are </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">highly-targeted</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3.2.2.1 Critical </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">regulations increased the transportation cost of ammonium nitrate.</span>

(3. Threescenarios:

a. Oil – Attacks destroy refineries and three billion tons of oil
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CFR, ‘6</span> – Council on Foreign
AND
/targets-terrorism-ports/p10215.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Could terrorists attack U.S. ports</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the United States by hiding in shipping containers.</span>

That __spikes__ prices __overnight__ – barriers are //easily//overcome
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USA Today, ’11</span>– “Oil tanker
AND
plot-oil-tankers_n.htm
The FBI and<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the U.S. </span>
//AND//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">on a supertanker, especially in Asian waters.</span>
==== ==== 
Oil spikes produce __great power nuclear wars__ with a __high probability__ of escalation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Qasem, ‘7</span> – Islam Yasin,
AND
_coming_warfare_o.htm]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the conflict-ridden and oil-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a disaster which is already in the making.</span>
==== ==== 
b. __Meltdowns__ – nuclear plants are //extremely// vulnerable to __catastrophic__terrorattacks
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rockwell, ’12</span> – Mark, “Study
AND
.
While protections for nuclear plants from<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> possible </span>terror
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">material commonly used in cladding the fuel rods.</span>
==== ==== 
Meltdowns cause __extinction__ – global contamination will be __uncontainable__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lendman, ‘11</span>. Stephen, “
AND
.
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">"As a physician, I contend that </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Central America, and parts of South America. </span>

c. __LNG__ – insufficient __funding__ makes liquid natural gas attacks __catastrophic__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kaplan, ‘6</span> – CFR Security Analyst
AND
.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Are LNG ships and terminals potential terrorist targets</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">patrols, not armed combat," he says.</span>

LNG explosions outweigh nuclearwar
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lovin and Lovin, ‘1</span> – Amory
AND

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">About nine percent of such a tankerload of </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, or </span>about //fifty-five Hiroshima bombs//.