[[toc]]
=Notes= 
For cites, please email: [[mailto:elouvis@gmail.com|elouvis@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 

==Consumerism Aff== 
===Georgetown 1AC=== 
**Contention One: The Phantasy of Planning**

**The utility maximization principle is viewed as deux ex machina in transportation planning—the belief that humans act mechanically to optimize the utility of their income and the welfare of society not only governs behavioral theory and policy but is used to structure the basis of our consumer culture.**
Antti **Talivitie**, Ph.D. in Engineering, Certificate in psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis, transportation specialist and consultant at the World Bank (14 yrs), 19**97** (“Things planners believe in, and things they deny,” Transportation 24: 1–31)
Regardless of the method by which the demand… as has been ably demonstrated by Hau (1993).

**This analysis of behavior is incomplete: yes we do push to improve ourselves and increase our utility, but this is balanced with what Freud would call the death drive or the desire to revert to an earlier state of being, ultimately inanimate life. This is a phenomenon that economic theory cannot explain, but instead seeks to avoid. This error in understanding dooms the effectiveness of policies and cause a regressive repetition of market based desires.**
Antti **Talivitie**, Ph.D. in Engineering, Certificate in psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis, transportation specialist and consultant at the World Bank (14 yrs), 19**97** (“Things planners believe in, and things they deny,” Transportation 24: 1–31)
In his book Beyond the Pleasure Principle (Freud 1920a) introduced his… social problems using the economic theory will result in failure.

**This utility based form of planning has colonized politics and society—our ideals are governed by the hegemonic influence of consumerism that constantly attempts to materialize the object cause of our desire. This constant attempt at satisfaction is a means to no end—it only serves as a strategy to structurally ignore and escape the death drive.**
Yannis **Stavrakakis**, Teaching Fellow at the Department of Government at the University of Essex, 20**07** (The Lacanian Left, 229-230)
In the US especially, the symbiosis of consumption and politics has reached… only the last act in this long incestuous story.

**The pleasure obtained from maximizing utility becomes a framework by which all laws and actions are governed – this conquers human experience and deems all actions that do not fall under this framework to be deviant and harmful, including moments of wonder and agency**
**Zupančič 3**
(Alenka, Philosopher at the University of Ljubljana, “The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two,” p 47-52, evidence under erasure)
It might seem that the notion of the ascetic ideal, as well… Freud recognizes the paradigm of “religious” thinking.

**And, our society of consumption is the heart of late-capitalism. The superego splits the law of “you must not consume” into dual drives – “you must,” and “consume!” This competition leads to ever-increasing models and methods of consumption, and continues to uphold the framework of capitalism**
Bülent **Diken**, lecturer in Sociology at Lancaster University, **and** Carsten Bagge **Laustsen**, Ph.D. student at the University of Copenhagen, Department of Political Sciences, September 20**01**, online: http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/sociology/papers/Diken-Laustsen-Enjoy-Your-Fight.pdf, accessed August 24, 2004
The distinction between societies of discipline and… mask by shifting between idiosyncratic hobbies (Žižek 1999: 373).

**We affirm: The United States federal government should invest in transportation infrastructure that does not maximize utility.**


**Contention Two: Utility Minimilization**

**Our approach opens up space beyond the veil of capitalism that allows us to recognize the lack in our ability to achieve our internal desire, in other words an ethics of the real that acknowledges the impossibility of pure ideological politics and the inevitability of death.**
Michael **Gunder**, senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, 20**05** (“THE PRODUCTION OF DESIROUS SPACE : MERE FANTASIES OF THE UTOPIAN CITY?” Planning Theory, Vol 4(2): 173–199)
Traversing our fundamental fantasy for…the ‘good’ city of inclusive desired space for all.

**Utility maximization is restricted to ‘the logical implications of man’s rationality,’ a myopic worldview that subjects predictions to market and advertising influences that serve to legitimize the hegemony of consumerism. Psychoanalysis can exposes crucial externalities that explain how and why society is structured in this way, it also reconciles the issues of more radical critiques who have failed to produce organized alternatives.**
Yannis **Stavrakakis**, Teaching Fellow at the Department of Government at the University of Essex, 20**07** (The Lacanian Left, 229-230)
At least from a historical point of view, then… And the situation today is not markedly different.

**Recognition of the death drive abolishes the source of totalitarian temptations – our attempt to articulate a new way of living is the only hope to break away from our violent international order.**
**Zizek**, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, 19**99**
(Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 390-391)
On the other hand, against this stupid superego…totalitarian haven of closed order is profoundly misleading.

**Finally, our advocacy is crucial to imagining a world without catastrophe and securitization. The state of emergency cannot exist without the split that is caused by ignoring the death drive**
**Zizek 03**
(Slavoj, Puppet and the Dwarf, MIT Press p. 159-66)
This, perhaps, is also the most important ethics lesson of…existence that goes on indefinitely, life as one long emergency.

===Bronx 1AC=== 
We don't read the Dickens card
These Cards were added to the second contention:
**Neuroeconomics proves our argument—multiple studies agree—the idea of a utility maximizing individual is fictitious**
Colin F. **Camerer** is an American behavioral economist and a Robert Kirby Professor of Behavioral Finance and Economics at the California Institute of Technology, May 2, 20**06** (“Neuroeconomics: Using neuroscience to make economic predictions,” http://www.hss.caltech.edu/~camerer/Hahn06v3.pdf)
As-if models based on dubious assumptions …has a multiplier effect in the economy.

**This is a pre-requisite for effective decision making, utility maximization forces ill-informed seat of the pants judgments in the face of uncertainty**
Colin F. **Camerer** is an American behavioral economist and a Robert Kirby Professor of Behavioral Finance and Economics at the California Institute of Technology, May 2, 20**06** (“Neuroeconomics: Using neuroscience to make economic predictions,” http://www.hss.caltech.edu/~camerer/Hahn06v3.pdf)
Ambiguity-aversion: In subjective … fit to gamble valuations.

====2AC A2: Framework==== 
**Resolved is an intransitive verb that means to reduce to fundamentals by analysis**
**Webster 11**
(www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)
(1): to become separated into components …reduced by dissolving or analysis

**The part following the colon is merely an extension on what we are to be “resolved” about**
**Government Style Manual**. US Government Printing Office Style Manual. Chapter 8: Punctuation. 20**11**. http://frwebgate1.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/TEXTgate.cgi?WAISdocID=pO42O8/0/1/0&WAISaction=retrieve
Colon
The colon is used--8.23. Before … outdoor sport: it is service.

**Parroting the opinions of policymakers doesn’t lead to education—only creative approaches to problem solving can lead to unpredictable encounters which are the key internal link to education**
**Epstein 1**
(Mikhail; Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor Cultural Theory & Russian Literature @ Emory; The Role of The Humanities in Global Culture: Questions and Hypotheses; spring; rhizomes)
I think that education … he is unpredictable to himself.

**Their call to crystallize debate to a game of competing policy options leads to the death of debate – it is only the evolution of argument that keeps creative thinking going and asks the brightest students to participate**
**Baudrillard 1**
(Jean, Prof of Phil at the European Graduate School, Impossible Exchange, p 34-5)
A double, contradictory movement: alone …species lurching into the void.

**Even if we don’t produce the very most fair debate setup, demanding that we should be punished for taking a risk reveals an ethics of futile utopianism that requires us to become slaves to personal morality**
**Baudrillard 93** (Jean, Prof of Phil at EGS, The Transparency of Evil, p 165)
We live in a culture …a truly unheard of servitude.

===Scranton 1AC=== 
Added these cards to the second contention after Stavrakakis:
**Specifically, it’s key to feminism**
Heiko **Feldner** **and** Fabio **Vighi**. Zizek: Beyond Foucault. 20**07**, pp. 205-207.
On the strength of this …<span class="underline">in the guise of ‘not-all’</span>

**And, psychoanalysis can interrogate the unconscious attitudes that maintain racist beliefs and structures**
**Berlak 9**
(Ann, Elementary Ed Progra, SFSU, P 50-1, “Challenging the Hegemony of Whiteness by Addressing the Adaptive Unconscious” in Undoing Whiteness in the Classroom)
It was at this … are not monitoring their actions.

====More FW Stuff==== 
**We’ll impact turn your understanding of (rules/gaming)—rule-setting works through a will to power that cages critical energy to debate and forces us to project narcissistic fantasies of control onto the activity—this makes case a disad to their FW and an external VTL DA.**
Maxwell **Schnurer** (Ph.D., Pittsburgh) is Assistant Professor at Marist College, Spring 20**04** (“GAMING AS CONTROL: WILL TO POWER, THE PRISON OF DEBATE AND GAME CALLED POTLATCH,” CONTEMPORARY ARGUMENTATION AND DEBATE”)
__Snider’s new gaming advocacy is …**commit to becoming better debaters**__.

===Lex 1AC (Most Recent)=== 
**__<span style="font-family: Arial;">Contention One: The Phantasy of Planning </span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">The utility maximization principle is viewed as deux ex machina in transportation planning—the belief that humans act mechanically to optimize the utility of their income and the welfare of society not only governs behavioral theory and policy but is used to structure the basis of our consumer culture.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Antti **Talivitie**, Ph.D. in Engineering, Certificate in psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis, transportation specialist and consultant at the World Bank (14 yrs), 19**97** (“Things planners believe in, and things they deny,” //Transportation// 24: 1–31)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial;">Regardless of the method by …</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;">been ably demonstrated by Hau (1993). </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">This analysis of behavior is incomplete: yes we do push to improve ourselves and increase our utility, but this is balanced with what Freud would call the death drive or the desire to revert to an earlier state of being, ultimately inanimate life. This is a phenomenon that economic theory cannot explain, but instead seeks to avoid. This error in understanding dooms the effectiveness of policies and cause a regressive repetition of market based desires.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Antti **Talivitie**, Ph.D. in Engineering, Certificate in psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis, transportation specialist and consultant at the World Bank (14 yrs), 19**97** (“Things planners believe in, and things they deny,” //Transportation// 24: 1–31)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">In his book Beyond the …__theory will result in failure.__ </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">This utility based form of planning has colonized politics and society—our ideals are governed by the hegemonic influence of consumerism that constantly attempts to materialize the object cause of our desire. This constant attempt at satisfaction is a means to no end—it only serves as a strategy to structurally ignore and escape the death drive. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Yannis **Stavrakakis**, Teaching Fellow at the Department of Government at the University of Essex, 20**07** (//The Lacanian Left//, 229-230) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">In the US especially, __the …in this long incestuous story__.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">The pleasure obtained from maximizing utility becomes a framework by which all laws and actions are governed – this conquers human experience and deems all actions that do not fall under this framework to be deviant and harmful, including moments of wonder and agency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Zupančič 3</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Alenka, Philosopher at the University of Ljubljana, “The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two,” p 47-52, evidence under erasure)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">It might seem that the …the paradigm of “religious” thinking.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">And, the state of emergency is a condition of our current view of the death drive – these policies will only continue and worsen the conflict and atrocities of the status quo</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Zizek</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial;">03</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Slavoj,PuppetandtheDwarf,MITPressp.159-66)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">This, perhaps, is also the …__life as one long emergency.__ </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Stuyvesant CL affirms: The United States federal government should invest in transportation infrastructure that does not maximize utility. </span>**


**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Contention Two: Utility Minimilization </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Our approach opens up space beyond the veil of capitalism that allows us to recognize the lack in our ability to achieve our internal desire, in other words an ethics of the real that acknowledges the impossibility of pure ideological politics and the inevitability of death. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Michael **Gunder**, senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, 20**05** (“THE PRODUCTION OF DESIROUS SPACE : MERE FANTASIES OF THE UTOPIAN CITY?” //Planning Theory//, Vol 4(2): 173–199)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Traversing our fundamental fantasy for …__inclusive desired space for all__. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Utility maximization is restricted to a myopic worldview that subjects predictions to market and advertising influences that serve to legitimize the hegemony of consumerism. Psychoanalysis can exposes crucial externalities that explain how and why society is structured in this way, it also reconciles the issues of more radical critiques who have failed to produce organized alternatives. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Yannis **Stavrakakis**, Teaching Fellow at the Department of Government at the University of Essex, 20**07** (The Lacanian Left, 229-230) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">At least from a historical … situation today is not markedly different. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Science has evolved to become and endless stream of knowledge that stifles creativity and turns debate into a passive consumption of knowledge rather than active production. Accepting the finality of death opens space for genuine creativity in the realm of politics rather than a system that renders individual pursuit worthless </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Copjec ’02</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> (Joan, director of the Center for the Study of Psychoanalysis and Culture at the University at Buffalo, “Image There’s No Woman,” pg. 21-22) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">According to Lefort’s account, __the …__ benefit of his mortal existence. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Now even if they win that science is good for the pursuit of knowledge—our stuff is valid </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Neuroeconomics proves the idea of a utility maximizing individual is ficticuous </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Colin F. **Camerer** is an American behavioral economist and a Robert Kirby Professor of Behavioral Finance and Economics at the California Institute of Technology, May 2, 20**06** (“Neuroeconomics: Using neuroscience to make economic predictions,” http://www.hss.caltech.edu/~camerer/Hahn06v3.pdf) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial;">As-if models based on dubious … multiplier effect in the economy.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Lacanian psychoanalysis meets the burdens of scientific inquiry—its transmissibility via standard formula makes it verifiable. Their empiricism is less scientifically valid.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Evans ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> (Dylan, Lecturer in Behavioural Science in the School of Medicine at University College Cork, “Science and Truth: An Introduction,” The Sypmtom, lacan.com)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">On this point, Lacan agrees …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial;"> confronts its limit in madness</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case studies and behavioral psychology prove</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Richard </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Redding</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">, Professor of Law and Psychology at Chapman University. “Does Law Need an Analyst? Prospects for Lacanian Psychoanalysis in Law.” //Washington and Lee Law Review,// V. 54, I. 3. 19**97**, pp. 1135-1138.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">However, since Lacan's theory (while …to compensate for its effects. 12 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Neuroscience agrees with psychoanalysis</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Zyga 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Lisa, Phys Org, Quoting Anthony Cashmore, a Professor of Biology at University of Pennsylvania, “Free Will is an Illusion, Biologist says,” 3/3, [[http://www.physorg.com/new186830615.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">“Whereas the impressions are that …</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial;">much greater than he realized.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Desire shapes political action </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dean 5</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Jodi, “Enjoyment as a Category of Political Thought,” Annual Meeting of American Political Science Association, September, jdeanicite.typepad.com/i_cite/files/aspa_05_enjoyment.doc)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Thinking enjoymentintermsof…the existing framework of domination.</span>

====2AC TI PIC Cards==== 
**Turn—Focusing on the details of implementation causes interpassivity and disengagement from the goals of the plan—means we need to re-invest our jouissance unproductively back into the culture of consumerism.**
**Van Oenen 06** (Gijs, senior lecturer in practical philosophy at the Department of Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam, “A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political Life,” 2006)

The observations by Pfaller and …<span class="Underline">the products of this process</span>.


**Can’t solve case—discussion has to take place without the imperative to prevent death—the net benefit corrupts the authenticity of the CPs advocacy—that’s key to agency**
**__Zizek, 1999__** Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, (Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 374-375)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This antinomy can also be …</span>**__come to terms with them__**__.__

==Strategic Mobility Aff== 
===1AC=== 
====Plan==== 
**The Department of Defense should substantially increase its investment in the Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Support Platform (JDDSP), through the Transportation Working Capital Fund, consolidating spending among top suppliers.**

====1AC Hegemony==== 
**Subpoint A—Strategic Mobility**

**There is a significant gap in CONUS military transport infrastructure—multiple factors mean we can’t handle the military’s strategic shift**
Dr. Lawrence G. **Mallon**, Program Director California State University, Long Beach Foundation, May 31, 20**10** (“SM21 CONOPS revised - Phase II Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Support Platform: Joint Operational Concept,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a526512.pdf]])

DoD is no stranger to … primary cause for the disruptions.


**Transition to a CONUS based military is inevitable, the US has been __paying lip service__ to the lack of infrastructure necessary to sustain the military—key to maintaining power projection capability**
Colonel Kenneth E. **Hickins** is assigned to the U.S. Army Europe G–4 office. He has a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the University of Nebraska, master’s degrees in national security and strategic studies from the Naval War College, and a master’s degree in strategic studies from the Army War College, March/April 20**10** (“Strategic Mobility,” Army Sustainment Vol. 42, Iss. 2 [[http://www.almc.army.mil/alog/issues/MarApr10/spectrum_strategy_mobility.html]])

The Army has been implementing … the answer to be yes.

**Shifting now is key to military power – the coming paradigm shift in the rules of war means conventional power will be useless**
**Arquilla ‘10** (John Arquilla, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, MARCH/APRIL 2010, “The New Rules of War”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war)

The irony, however, is that … it, saving the world from darkness.

**Even if hard power is declining information dominance is a __prerequisite__ for its deployment.**
**Lowe ‘10** (Chris Lowe, Major, US Army; School of Advanced Military Studies, US Army Command and General Staff College, 2010, “From ‘Battle’ to the ‘Battle of Ideas’: The Meaning and Misunderstanding of Information Operations,” http://usacac.army.mil/cac2/IPO/repository/Lowe_Monograph.pdf)

Introducing language that would later … power of its military force.


**Net-centric transport infrastructure is key—spills over to cause a smooth transition to networked warfare**
Kenneth L. **Alford**, Ph.D.,**and** Steven R. **Ditmeyer**, National Defense University, DoT Faculty Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces, and Professor and Department Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “Net-Centric Operations: Defense and Transportation Synergy,” January 20**07**, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA487718

The Department of Defense (DoD) … implementation of net-centric railroading.


**Decline in power projection collapses heg**
**Zhang & Shi 11** – Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace; Lin Shi, Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and consultant for the World Bank, January 22, 2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” East Asia Forum, online: http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

Over the past two decades, … devoid of unrivalled US primacy.


**Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction**
Thomas P.M. **Barnett 11** Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads

It is worth first examining … the Pacific Century now unfolding.


**Best statistical studies prove heg solves war because it makes democratic peace resilient globalization sustainable---it’s the deeper cause of proximate checks against war**
**Owen 11** John M. Owen Professor of Politics at University of Virginia PhD from Harvard "DON’T DISCOUNT HEGEMONY" Feb 11 www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/

Andrew Mack and his colleagues … … for liberal democracy remains strong.

**Subpoint B is Naval Power**
**Naval power is at a tipping point in the squo—sustaining it is key to making inevitable US strategic retrenchment peaceful and maintain global engagement, the alternative is global instability**
Commander Brian **Clark and** Dr. Dan **Whiteneck**, February 20**11** (“Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point,” Proceedings Magazine Vol. 137/2/1, 296 available online at: [[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02/strategic-choices-tipping-point]])

In light of global economic … indeed be at a “tipping point.”


**Even if heg decline is inevitable a flexible navy is key to the transition—lack of engagement with the global commons breeds conflict**
Frank **Hoffman**, retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting, November 20**08** (“From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century,” Center for a New American Security, The Future of the US Military Series)

However, the need for leadership (… extend security via multilateral approaches.


**Naval engagement is key to check South China Sea tensions and great power war—interdependence doesn’t check, China reverts to mercantilist tendencies**
Richard Javad **Heydarian**, foreign affairs analyst, specializing on Middle Eastern affairs and international political economy, September 8, 20**11** ("The South China Sea Conundrum," Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, [[http://search.proquest.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/docview/894196564]])

Recent months have witnessed renewed … geopolitical architecture of the region.


**Extinction**
**Cheong 1** [Ching, BA Economics, Senior Reporter on Chinese Politics for Straight Times, “Will Taiwan Break Away?: The Rise of Taiwanese Nationalism”, p. 5-6]

THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-… puts sovereignty above everything else.



====1AC Agile Ports==== 
**Port collapse is inevitable—the lack of competitive ports leads to market volatility and is cemented by a passive policy context**
Dr. Jean-Paul **Rodrigue**, Hofstra University, New York, USA, **and** Dr. Theo **Notteboom**, President of ITMMA, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium, 20**12** (“Port regionalization: improving port competitiveness by reaching beyond the port perimeter,” Port Focus iss. 52 February 2012)

Containerization was a major technological innovation … which elements of inertia remain.


**Plan is key to intermodal transport networked highways are key to pick up the overhead**
Peter **Bradley**, Jul 20**08**, award-winning journalist with over three decades of experience in newspapers and national business magazines, his credentials include seven years as the transportation and supply chain editor at Purchasing Magazine and six years as the chief editor of Logistics Management, “The Logistics Infrastructure,” DC Velocity, p http://www.dcvelocity.com/articles/?article_id=1940&channel=11

A few months later, a long-… its freight efficiency," it says.


**Freight overload collapses US economic competitiveness**
Neil **Shister**, Sep 20**07**, editorial director of World Trade Magazine, “The Infrastructure (Again!),” World Trade Magazine 20.9, p ebsco

For the second-half of … is threatening economic competitiveness. H


**Lack of US economic leadership leads to war—their defense doesn’t account for global crises**
Jedediah **Royal**, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 20**10** (“Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214)

Less intuitive is how periods … systemic, dyadic and national levels.


**The US’ port processing deficit triggers a __chain reaction__ that destroys the global supply chain—plan is key**
Chang Qian **Guan**, Doctorate student at NJIT, May, 20**09** (“ANALYSIS OF MARINE CONTAINER TERMINAL GATE CONGESTION, TRUCK WAITING COST, AND SYSTEM OPTIMIZATION,” [[http://archives.njit.edu/vol01/etd/2000s/2009/njit-etd2009-046/njit-etd2009-046.pdf]])

North America has a growing port … at the terminal gate complex.


**Net-centric transport increases efficiency and lowers congestion – development solves the coming freight overload – it’s empirically proven to work**
Steven R.**Ditmeyer,** March 15th, 20**11**, DoT Faculty Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces,“Network-Centric Railway Operations – Utilizing Intelligent Railroad Systems,” [[http://www.transportation.northwestern.edu/docs/2011/2011.03.15.Ditmeyer_Paper.pdf]]

Network-centric railway operations and … changes in the transportation marketplace.

====1AC Solvency==== 
**The plan enhances capacity – integration of the technologies in the near future takes out all solvency deficits**
Cristopher P.L. **Barkan**, Mark H. Dinglerand Lai [Rex] Yung-Cheng, April 16th, 20**11**, (1) professor, director, Railroad Engineering Program, (2) graduate research assistant, Railroad Engineering Program, (3) assistant professor, Division of Transportation Engineering, NTU, “Effects of Communications-Based Train Control and Electronically Controlled Pneumatic Brakes on Railroad Capacity,” [[http://ebookbrowse.com/impact-of-cbtc-and-ecp-brakes-on-capacity-pdf-d114888226]]
*Note – CBTC = PTC

Railroads are increasingly using new … ECP brakes: shorter stopping distances.


**JDDSP is the missing link in CONUS forces—key to military decision making and streamlining commercial port distribution**
Dr. Lawrence G. **Mallon**, Program Director California State University, Long Beach Foundation, May 31, 20**10** (“SM21 CONOPS revised - Phase II Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Support Platform: Joint Operational Concept,” http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a526512.pdf)

The purpose of this Joint … in Joint Sea Basing Logistics.


**Agile ports are crucial to reducing congestion and establishing effective intermodal supply lines**
Bojan **Beškovnik**, Ph.D, Intereuropa, Global Logistics Service, **and** Elen **Twrdy**, Ph.D, University of Ljubljana,Faculty of Maritime Studies and Transport, March 8, 20**11** (“AGILE PORT AND INTERMODAL TRANSPORT OPERATIONSMODEL TO SECURE LEAN SUPPLY CHAINS CONCEPT,” Traffic & Transportation, Vol. 23, 2011, No. 2, 105-112)

Nowadays, more and more enterprises … quality standardsand lower lead time

==<span style="font-family: Arial;">Anthro Aff</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial;">1AC Pensburry Octas</span>=== 
**Transportation infrastructure instrumentalizes the environment for solely human ends—this reinforces our separation from the ecological systems in which we participate, ensuring catastrophic collapse.**
**Duyser ‘10** (Mitchell Duyser. Master of Architecture at University of Cincinnati. April 2010. “Hybrid Landscapes: Territories of Shared Ecological and Infrastructural Value”. Masters Thesis.Pages 3-7.)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The construct of modern human … </span>__of reintegrating civilization with ecology__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**The debate community polices otherness in a similarly anthropocentric manner—pleas to “reasonable agreement” about how a topic is defined imply the incorrect assumption that the debate community is made up of sufficiently similar alterities. This mindset requires the unconditional elimination of those who cannot access the authoritative, “rational” discourse that has become the norm in policy debate**
**Secomb 2K** (Linnell, a lecturer in Gender Studies at the University of Sydney, “Fractured Community,” Hypatia – volume 15, Number 2, Spring, pp. 138-9)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">This reformulated universalist model of … that assume homogeneity and transparency.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Although humans are radically and undeniably different from animals and other natural entities, using characteristics like sentience to rationally determine the political and social value of nature risks the worst forms of violence that are at the underbelly of civil society.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> Calarco ‘8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> (Matthew, Asst. Prof of Phil at CSUF, __Zoographies: The Question of the Animal From Heidegger to Derrida__, June, p. 92-94)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Agamben gives the name</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> “**__anthropological …__** , be able to stop them” (O, 38).</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Anthropocentrism is THE original hierarchy that makes racism, sexism, and other “-isms” possible—if the future is not to endlessly repeat the horrors of the past, then we NEED a politics that can respect more than human life.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Best 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> (Steven, Chair of Philosophy at UT-EP, //JCAS// 5.2)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">While a welcome advance over the … baggage official Christianity left behind. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Anthropocentrism allows the destruction of all forms of alterity to be reengineered for human purposes—this destroys value to life.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">**Lee 99** (Keekok, Visiting Chair in Philosophy at Lancaster University, //The Natural and the Artefactual//)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">To appreciate this dimension one … this sense, ontology precedes axiology. </span>


**Thus, Anne and I problematize U. S. transportation infrastructure investment in the United States by refusing the anthropocentrism of status quo practices of infrastructure in favor of an ethic that recognizes the intrinsic value of and our connection to the universe and all of the entities within it.**


**The role of your ballot is to evaluate which starting point best formulates an ethical orientation towards alterity. Your impact calculus should transcend human value—you should endorse an eco-centric ethics that sees the universe as having intrinsic value independent of humanity**
**Lee 99** (Keekok, Visiting Chair in Philosophy at Lancaster University, The Natural and the Artefactual, 1999)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">We should not delude ourselves … human­kind is around or not.</span>


**We reject the rationalist “view from nowhere.” We are in a room breathing air, a small part of an intergalactic ecosystem. We do not need to draw a circle defining our position in a human society; we are part of innumerable circles beyond human reckoning, sharing our embodiment with plants, animals, rivers, the Earth, and with the Andromeda Galaxy. Only this recognition can rejuvenate ethics.**
**Abram 7** (David, Alliance for Wild Ethics, Merleau-Ponty and Environmental Philosophy, edited by Suzanne L. Cataldi, William S. Hamrick, SUNY Press, [[http://www.wildethics.org/essays/earth_in_eclipse.html]])

We can have little hope … recklessly endanger all the others.


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Any other starting point fails—it results in green-washing and can’t solve the aff.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Rowe 3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> (Stan, retired ecology teacher, prof emeritus at the U of Saskatchewan, //The Trumpeter// Volume 19, Number 2)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Ethical systems express human values, … ) and a degree of communality (ethnocentric). </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Purely political approaches inevitably fail due to internal contradictions and epistemological impoverishment—the 1AC’s reorientation of our frame of reference in pedagogy shapes reality.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">**Bonnett 2** (Michael, Lecturer at University of Cambridge in Education, Sustainability as a Frame of Mind—and How to Develop It, The Trumpeter 18.1)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">So, why recommend the move …acknowledge natural rhythms and processes. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"><<Bonnett Continues Several Pages Later>></span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Parallel reservations about conditioning by … and spiritually that sustains us. </span>


=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===T-Direct Investment=== 
====1NC==== 
**Investment is spending on physical capital**
**C**ongressional **B**udget **O**ffice, October 20**09** (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October, http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf)
In this analysis, investment in…or on research and development.

**Capital spending requires direct investment**
Edward **Gramlich**, former professor of economics at the University of Michigan and a former member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, March 6, 19**98** (Testimony Before the President's Commission to Study Capital Budgeting, Washington, D.C.,,http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/speeches/1998/19980306.htm)
Apart from politics, how in…identifying this small amount of spending.

==Critiques== 
===Anthro K=== 
====1NC==== 
**Start your decision with a recognition of your connection to more than human others. Beginning with the human social betrays your anthropocentric bias and reinforces the root cause of violence.**
**Rose 6** (Rebecca, Lecturer in Literature for Trinity College Foundation Studies, The University of Melbourne, 2006, COLLOQUY text theory critique 12)
In recent decades concern for… billions of years in the making.29

**Although humans are radically and undeniably different from animals and other natural entities, using characteristics like sentience to rationally determine the political and social value of nature risks the worst forms of violence that are at the underbelly of civil society.**
**Calarco ‘8** (Matthew, Asst. Prof of Phil at CSUF, Zoographies: The Question of the Animal From Heidegger to Derrida, June, p. 92-94)
Agamben gives the name “anthropological … be able to stop them” (O, 38).

**Anthropocentrism is THE original hierarchy that makes racism, sexism, and other “-isms” possible—if the future is not to endlessly repeat the horrors of the past, then we NEED a politics that can respect more than human life.**
**Best 7** (Steven, Chair of Philosophy at UT-EP, JCAS 5.2//shree)//
//While a welcome advance over …baggage official Christianity left behind.//

**Anthropocentrism allows the destruction of all forms of alterity to be reengineered for human purposes—this destroys value to life.**
**Lee 99** (Keekok, Visiting Chair in Philosophy at Lancaster University, The Natural and the Artefactual)
To appreciate this dimension one …this sense, ontology precedes axiology.

**Vote negative to reject their egocentric and human centric ethics in favor of an ecocentric ethic that starts by emphasizing the intrinsic values of Earth’s geoecosystem.**
**Rowe 3** (Stan, retired ecology teacher, prof emeritus at the U of Saskatchewan, The Trumpeter Volume 19, Number 2)
Ethical systems express human values… home-centred, an Ecological Ethics.

**We reject the rationalist “view from nowhere.” We are in a room breathing air, a small part of an intergalactic ecosystem. We do not need to draw a circle defining our position in a human society; we are part of innumerable circles beyond human reckoning, sharing our embodiment with plants, animals, rivers, mountains, and the earth. Only this recognition can rejuvenate ethics.**
**Abram 7** (David, Alliance for Wild Ethics, Merleau-Ponty and Environmental Philosophy, edited by Suzanne L. Cataldi, William S. Hamrick, SUNY Press, http://www.wildethics.org/essays/earth_in_eclipse.html //shree)
We can have little hope of … recklessly endanger all the others.

**The role of your ballot is to evaluate which starting point is best to formulate an ethical orientation towards alterity.**
**The 1AC’s reorientation of our frame of reference in pedagogy shapes reality—they suffer from epistemological impoverishment.**
**Bonnett 2** (Michael, Lecturer at University of Cambridge in Education, Sustainability as a Frame of Mind—and How to Develop It, The Trumpeter 18.1)
So, why recommend the move …acknowledge natural rhythms and processes.
<<Bonnett Continues Several Pages Later>>
Parallel reservations about conditioning by ...and spiritually that sustains us.

===Anti-Science=== 
====1NC==== 
**To reduce all that is encountered to knowable, calculable factors does violence to forms of knowledge found in mystery and seduction**
Jean **Baudrillard**, professor of philosophy at the European Graduate School. “Carnival and Cannibal: Ventriloquous Evil.” 20**10**, pp. 70-73.

In the Promethean perspective of ...which is the intelligence of mystery.


===Bifo K=== 
====1NC==== 
**Reliance on economic rationality presupposes a neoliberal form of subjectivity that they superimpose upon the world in order to justify mass violence and homogenization. This makes transition wars and economic collapse inevitable, as it fails to understand how the crucial problem is one of symbolic exchange. Against this, we should withdraw from necronomics.**
**Bifo 11**
(Franco Berardi, Professor of the social history of communication at the Accademia di belle Arti in Milan and Founder of A/traverse, After the Future ed. Genesko & Thoburn, AK Press, p. 141-147)
More than ever, economic rationality...fabric of language and imagination.

**As capitalism withers away we must save desire and autonomy by withdrawing from impositions like the maintenance of a neoliberal subject. We must use the current recession as an opportunity to proliferate singularities as self creative processes capable of retaining value and sustaining freedom.**
**Bifo 11**
(Franco Berardi, Professor of the social history of communication at the Accademia di belle Arti in Milan and Founder of A/traverse, After the Future ed. Genesko & Thoburn, AK Press, p. 147-154)
Activism has generally conceived the...be considered an unending process.

===Carnival=== 
====1NC==== 
**The attempt to cement America’s image through is a farce – hegemony is a spectacle collapsed by actualization, and the affirmative is an attempt to humiliate the Other as consolation for the collapsing American moral narrative.**
**Baudrillard 10** [Jean, professor of sociology@egs, Carnival & Cannibal, 19-26]

Having said this, we should not be too quick...
the sovereignty, par excellence, of death.

===Complexity K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The aff’s appeal to a “reasonable leap of faith” between monolithic internal link chains endorses an educationally impoverished model of debate which causes their impacts in the real world. They should be held to a standard of tracing connections between actors**
Nick **Srnicek**, Doctoral Candidate in IR @ the London School of Economics, 20**07**, “Assemblage Theory, Complexity and Contentious Politics – The Political Ontology of Gilles Deleuze,”
http://lse.academia.edu/documents/0011/3585/SrnicekNick.2007Assemblage_TheoryComplexity_and_Contentious_Politics..pdf

Despite the brief hopefulness of the immediate...
and dynamism characteristic of the modern world

====2NC==== 
=====AT: Pragmatism===== 
**Pragmatic politics agrees knowledge isn’t static and requires interrogation – ignoring those questions results in non-reflexive scholarship that causes failure repetition**
**Hynek & Teti ‘10** (Nik, Institute of International Relations, Nerudova, and Andrea, Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Aberdeen, “Saving identity from postmodernism? The normalization of constructivism in International Relations” pp. 183-194)
That Pragmatism was concerned with ‘practical’ … IR’s infra-disciplinary centre of intellectual gravity.

===Death K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The affirmative approaches the world with the tautological rationality of viviocentrism – that is life-centeredness. Viviocentrism is a noble lie that informs all aspects of their advocacy and it is the same binary logic of natural mastery that justifies racism, sexism, anthropomorphism, etc. Opening our minds to death allows a transcendence of the tyranny of life – put the burden on them to justify physical existence as a roll for the ballot**
Mitchell **Heisman** (The opposite of a bullshitter, suicide practitioner, & University at Albany bachelor's degree in psychology) 20**10**
[Suicide Note, online @ http://www.suicidenote.info/, loghry]

There is a very popular opinion that choosing...
not dictate a bias towards life

===Deleuze=== 
====<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1NC</span>==== 
**A SUBPOINT. A SHAPE IS ITS LIMIT**

**FIRST, THE SYSTEM OF THOUGHT**
**The 1AC attempts to map the world within the coordinates of a metaphysical system which are capable of answering all of our questions by correlating certain parts of the system to matching parts of experience. The problem with this is that there CAN NEVER BE a final reason to prefer one over-arching correlation over another since all we can ever debate is about HOW observers observe the world, and not WHAT they observe, since the WHAT is always a question of the HOW. The project of the 1AC, just like rationalism, marxism, psychoanalysis and every other –ism, becomes nothing more than a worthless conceptual Bridge to Nowhere that leaves us vulnerable to agreeing with the worst sort of fanatical religiosity.**
**Bryant ‘8** /Levi, professor of Philosophy at Collins College, “Correlation and the Fate of Philosophy,” Larval Subjects, June 13/ [[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2008/06/13/correlationism-and-the-fate-of-philosophy/#more-623|http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2008/06/13/correlationism-and-the-fate-of-philosophy/#more-623]]
The inauguration of correlationism begins, …or not philosophy is possible.

**SECOND, THE SUBSTANCE OF POWER**
**The 1AC falsely assumed a priori that power is a substance which can be characterized in a certain way and then attempts to assign it particular characteristics based on certain underlying trend. This is a conceptual error akin to saying that ‘a wind is made of dry leaves’ or actually believing ‘there is never any objections to the government in dictatorships’. Power is not a substance but rather a movement through actant objects and is almost always negotiable and the thinner it’s stretched the weaker it gets. Rather than resent bureaucratic forms of thought we should admire it for its venal flaws**
**Harman ‘9** Graham, professor of philosophy American University of Cairo, “Prince of Networks: Bruno Latour and Metaphysics” p. 21-22
It is never the actant in naked …result, not a guiding principle.



**B. THE VIOLENCE OF THE BLUEPRINT**
**The 1AC project of describing the world through a systematically coherent explanation of reality insinuates an insidious new regime of conceptual totalitarianism which binds our imaginations in the ropes of the present. Artificial explanation is practically worthless and the source of nearly all worldly problems**
**Pelevin ‘2** Victor,Leo Kropywiansky, post-Soviet science fiction author, Buddhist scholar, “Victor Pelevin” Interview, BOMB Magazine, Issue 79 Spring 2002, , LITERATURE [[http://www.bombsite.com/issues/79/articles/2481]]
VP Since it happened a long time …issue that interests me as a writer and as a person.

**This artificial centering of politics around the 1AC’s heroic critical intervention singularizes the multiplicity of contingent histories of social anxiety and violence into transcendental and eternal value, a false ideal that makes the masses kill in the name of their servitude and drives systems of domination as they strive to locate apocalypse**
**Deleuze ’87** Gilles, famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, (two translations used) The Opera Quarterly 21.4 (2005) 716-724 AND Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs.61-62
How does one "act" on something, …the one the twin of the other.



**C. ALTERNATIVE- FLAT ONTOLOGY**

**Our alternative is to refuse the narcissism of presuming our unique human ability to narrate reality. The question of what exists within the world inevitably precedes the ethical and normative questions of how we ought to relate to the world of objects. Their metaphysical error confuses facts and values, when we cannot separate our interpretation of a fact from how we value the objects which it describes. We cannot say that we care about humans without first defining what it means to ‘care’ and what we mean by ‘human’. Refuse the metaphysics of the 1AC for a philosophy of unscripted combinations where every relation is itself an object**
**Bryant ’10** /Levi, professor of philosophy at Collin College, “Inhuman Ethics”, Larval Subjects, January 20/
[[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2010/01/20/inhuman-ethics/]]

It was this anxiety and … begin formulating these axiological questions.

===Freedom K=== 
====1NC==== 
**Subpoint A is the marked body**
**The victories of our free society have been the victories of the white male—to presume an ethical relationship towards the goals of globalization and hegemony ignores the __brutal underbelly__ of our history. The subjugation of the female and black bodies has contributed to a system in which sexual difference has become racialized and race sexed, the machine of phallicezed whiteness. We are seduced into championing freedom and stability, concepts that are __inconceivable__ to these bodies, when that goal only serves to entrench the __gratuitous violence__ always already done to them.**
**Winnubst 06** (Shannon, Phd, Associate Professor of Women’s Studies at Ohio State University, //Queering Freedom//, pg. 43-45)

Across the Atlantic and roughly … **__relations, and their subsequent freedom__**.


**Transportation infrastructure acts as a line of demarcation that maps these perverted notions of freedom and categories onto the oppressed body in order to make it legible to cultures of power**
**Winnubst 06** (Shannon, Phd, Associate Professor of Women’s Studies at Ohio State University, //Queering Freedom//, pg. 186-188)

In her introduction to her … __imagine these excessive, queer possibilities__.


**Subpoint B is sexual difference**
**Their appeal to the ideals of dominant western political ideology forecloses the possibility of it—the feminine is colonized under the guise of sexual neutrality, which sustains the masculine subject as universal through an Economy of the Same.**
**Deutscher 2**
(Penelope, Prof in French Phil and Gender at Northwestern, A Politics of Impossible Difference, P 26-31//)//

//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is a phenomenon Irigaray would … </span>__amplify them to a disruptive implosion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>//


**The discord between the sexed object and the sexed abject is against the very being of nature – it is the masculine phallic subjectivity which is at the root of aggression**
**Stone 3**
(Allison, Institute for Environment, Philosophy, and Public Policy, “Irigaray and Holderlin on the Relation Between Nature and Culture,” Continental Philosophy Review 36:4, p 415-432)

3. Irigaray’s response to Hölderlin … this dimension of her thought.


**Subpoint C is what the heck freedom is**
<span class="Underline">**The only way to avoid slavery, to totalize our autonomy, is to immanently dissolve into the moment, as long as we externalize the object of our desire, the essence of humanity becomes impossible. Their call to action amounts to nothing more than selling our souls to the devil of political power.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Bataille 45** (Georges Bataille, The Dark Lord amongst other things, philosopher, On Nietzche, 1945, Pantheon Books, pg xxvi-xxvii)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nonetheless, I don’t want my Inclination … </span>lacks further tasks to fulfill<span class="Underline">.) </span>


**Subpoint D is the fissure**
**The question we must ask ourselves is** **how we came to live in the midst of this pornographic consumptive culture in the first place. The alternative is an archaeology of “freedom” in society. This process constitutes a radical queering, an action against the grain, necessary to rupture the structural domination of the most privileged at the expense of all else.**
**Winnubst 06** (Shannon, Phd, Associate Professor of Women’s Studies at Ohio State University, //Queering Freedom//, pg. 192-195)

__While the__ service sector of __… our “I” of identity can become__.

===Nature K=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Conflict imageries surround infrastructure in a condition of vulnerability—policy becomes reactionary in the face of instability or breakdown—this split from the natural state of society and infrastructure causes serial policy failure and pathological risk avoidance</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">**Edwards ‘02** (Paul N., Professor in the School of Information and the Department of History at the University of Michigan, “Infrastructure and Modernity: Force, Time, and Social Organization in the History of Sociotechnical Systems,” Technology and Modernity: The Empirical Turn Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, forthcoming 2002) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Another, related scalar dimension is … the omnipresent category of risk .</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Rupturing this relationship reifies a feedback cycle of conflict projection—leads to annihilation and turns case—society is driven towards the insular fantasy of technology as a guard against feelings of anxiety and the threat of natural disaster</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">**Dodds ‘12** (Joseph, MPhil, Psychoanalytic Studies, Sheffield University, UK, MA, Psychoanalytic Studies, Sheffield University, UK BSc, Psychology and Neuroscience, Manchester University, UK, Chartered Psychologist (CPsychol) of the British Psychological Society (BPS), and a member of several other professional organizations such as the International Neuropsychoanalysis Society, Psychoanalysis and Ecology at the Edge of Chaos p 70)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Here there are echoes of … of bringing about our extinction. (Searles 1972: 371-372)</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Alt text: reject their political imagery of infrastructure in favor of an understanding of it through multi scalar analysis</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">This means subjecting their aff to different levels of perspectives in order to frame the plan as it relates to nature—this allows infrastructure to be understood as a contingent solution rather than a rigid background. This is not some postmodern theory, it is a rigorous form of empirical analysis that defines infrastructure’s place in modernity.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">**Edwards ‘02** (Paul N., Professor in the School of Information and the Department of History at the University of Michigan, “Infrastructure and Modernity: Force, Time, and Social Organization in the History of Sociotechnical Systems,” Technology and Modernity: The Empirical Turn Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, forthcoming 2002) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Macro-scale perspectives on force …at least make the attempt. </span>

===Ports K=== 
====1NC==== 
**Port security is caught in an ideology of total control and security of moving populations and goods that entrenches sovereign power and violence**
**Martin ‘12** (Craig, Department of Geography, Royal Holloway College, University of London, “Desperate Mobilities: Logistics, Security and the Extra-Logistical Knowledge of ‘Appropriation’” Geopolitics, Vol. 17.2)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Recent figures suggest that </span>some 300 … <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">embody a reconfigured notion of territoriality.</span>


**Control of critical ports is part of a larger biopolitical imagination attempting to achieve total control and the preemption of all violence**
**Martin ‘12** (Craig, Department of Geography, Royal Holloway College, University of London, “Desperate Mobilities: Logistics, Security and the Extra-Logistical Knowledge of ‘Appropriation’” Geopolitics, Vol. 17.2, pp. 370-372)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As I have attempted to show … </span><span class="Underline">suggests, </span>**__increasingly at the biopolitical__**<span class="Underline">.</span>


**Undetectability of the modern enemy means we have to go offensive, creating the threats we fear so we aren’t taken unaware. This turns and magnifies the 1AC impacts: preemptive politics makes them inevitable and worse**
**Massumi ‘7** (Brian, Prof. @ Université de Montréal, “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption,” Theory & Event, Vol. 10.2, Project Muse)

In the face of<span class="Underline"> the "… to actively contribute to </span>producing it.



**The alternative is a different form of political imagery that rejects the aff’s risk management approach to politics.**

**Their isolation of critical infrastructure and the war on terror develops threat centered political narratives that result in frantic securitization—a shift away allows for a more productive form of political engagement**
**Salter ‘8** (Mark B., Prof. @ School of Political Studies, U. of Ottawa, “Risk and imagination in the war on terror” Risk and the War on Terror)

Risk management<span class="Underline"> has been adopted ... </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a way of structuring imagination follows.</span>

===Psychoanalysis K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The desire to achieve security through transport planning causes planners to map policy through the lens of a harmonious ideology—this posits a distorted view of reality that serves only to inflate their egos making inaccurate and contradictory policy a no risk option**
Michael **Gunder**, senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, March 1, 20**04** (“Shaping the Planner's Ego-Ideal : A Lacanian Interpretation of Planning Education,” Journal of Planning Education and Research 23:299)

<span class="Underline">The ego-ideal governs the interplay …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the contradiction of “unpleasant enjoyment.”</span>


**Harmony is sustained by a focus on __removing__ instead of __solving__—ideological causalities are pinned on others as objects of annihilation. This turns case and makes their impacts inevitable because structural problems like class gaps play second fiddle to an assertion of our cultural superiority.**
Michael **Gunder**, senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, May 20**05** (“Obscuring Difference Through Shaping Debate: A Lacanian View of Planning for Diversity,” International Planning Studies, Vol. 10, No. 2, 83–103)

<span class="Underline">What allows planning to succeed is …of asserting one’s own superiority.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Zizek, 1999, p. 216) </span>


**The alt is a refusal of the politics of the aff in favor of an agonistic basis for planning**

**Our approach opens up space beyond the veil of capitalism that allows us to recognize the lack in our ability to achieve our internal desire, in other words an ethics of the real that acknowledges the impossibility of pure ideological politics**
Michael **Gunder**, senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, 20**05** (“THE PRODUCTION OF DESIROUS SPACE : MERE FANTASIES OF THE UTOPIAN CITY?” Planning Theory, Vol 4(2): 173–199)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Traversing our fundamental fantasy for …</span>__inclusive desired space for all__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

====2NC==== 
=====AT: Perm===== 
**Turn—__reasserting the ego__—the perm coopts the alt, putting its energy towards convincing the populous of the necessity of superiority**
**Summers 9** [Frank, Supervising and Training Analyst Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis Chicago, IL, USA and Associate Professor of Clinical Psychiatry and the Behavioral Sciences Northwestern University Medical School, International Journal of Applied Psychoanalytic Studies Int. J. Appl. Psychoanal. Studies 6(4): 300–320 (2009) Published online 29 June 2009 in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com) DOI: 10.1002/aps.202, access 2/8/2011]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Once American exceptionalism is seen … understanding can then become apparent.</span>

=====AT: Try or Die===== 
**Reject their any risk logic—using extinction as a justification of policy destroys decision-making and makes war and genocide no risk options**
Michael **Gunder,** senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, 20**08** (“Ideologies of Certainty in a Risky Reality: Beyond the Hauntology of Planning,” //Planning Theory//, Vol 7(2): 186–206)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the wider social science …emergence of the cosmopolitan state (Beck, 2004, 2005b; Ekberg, 2007). </span>

===Specral Risk K=== 
====1NC==== 
**Beware the specter—risk constitutes the unknowable abject, the “Thing” that drives our paranoid politics. Attempts to achieve absolute knowledge of it is impossible because just like a ghost it is not really there. The resulting failure of the political process jettisons our agency and degrades our faith in institutions. The aff is but a last ditch attempt to plan for a “good” tomorrow.**
Michael **Gunder**, senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, 20**08** (“Ideologies of Certainty in a Risky Reality: Beyond the Hauntology of Planning,” Planning Theory, Vol 7(2): 186–206)
In the wider social … emergence of the cosmopolitan state (Beck, 2004, 2005b; Ekberg, 2007).

**Failing to recognize the specter of the resolution causes a violent autoimmune reaction to self-difference**
**Fritsch 5** (Matthias Fritsch, Professor of Philosophy at Concordia, “The promise of memory: history and politics in Marx, Benjamin, and Derrida”, 2005, page 80-82)
For Derrida, our times are …already divides it against itself.

**This autoimmune logic causes perpetual apocalypse to become the part and parcel of our lives leading to the actualization of their impacts**
**Callus 4** (Ivan Callus, Associate Professor and Head of the Department of English at the University of Malta, and Stefan Herbrechter, Reader in Cultural Theory at Coventry University Department of Media and Communication, “The Latecoming of the Posthuman”, Reconstruction 4:3 (2004), http://reconstruction.eserver.org/043/callus.htm)

One has the impression (and I …than the following statement by Derrida:

**The alternative is an exorcism of the basis of planning—instead of striving towards singular idealistic goals we should instead embrace a form of utopic thinking that allows us to address the abject haunting our politics**
Michael **Gunder**, senior lecturer in the Department of Planning at The National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries, University of Auckland, New Zealand, 20**08** (“Ideologies of Certainty in a Risky Reality: Beyond the Hauntology of Planning,” Planning Theory, Vol 7(2): 186–206)
Beyond hauntology: towards a tangible …to the hauntology of risk!

=Strategies= 
==Georgetown== 
===Round 1 Vs. Eastside (Natives)=== 
Deleuze K (2NR)
Case

===Round 4 Vs. Riverhill DH (ITS)=== 
Bifo K (2NR)

===Round 5 Vs. Broadrun CW (Inland Waterways)=== 
Psychoanalysis K (2NR)
Case

===Doubles Vs. GBN SM (Port Dredging)=== 
Complexity K
Spectral Risk K
Death K (2NR)
Carnival
Harmony
Micropolitics
Antiscience

==Bronx== 
===Round 2 Vs. BCC BB (Katrina)=== 
Anthro K (2NR)

===Round 5 Vs. Atholton ZW (Whiteness)=== 
Rez PIC
Anthro K (2NR)
Case (2NR)

===Doubles Vs. Greenhill DJ (Gasoline Tax)=== 
T-Investment (2NR)
Spectral Risk K
Case

===Octas Vs. Pine Crest BG (HSR)=== 
Anthro K (2NR)
Case

==Scranton== 
===Round 2 Vs. Head Royce BY (ITS)=== 
Vagueness
Planning K (2NR)
Complexity K (2NR)
Case

===Round 4 Vs. McDonogh SP (Whiteness)=== 
Vagueness
State PIC (2NR)
Anthro K (2NR)
Case

===Round 6 Vs. Centennial KK (Whiteness)=== 
Vagueness
Anthro
Case (2NR)

===Doubles Vs. Marriotts Ridge WZ (Climate Hardening)=== 
T-Physical (2NR)
Anthro K
Nature K
Case

===Octas Vs. Head Royce PM (Deleuzian Airports)=== 
America (2NR)
Framework

==Blake== 
===Round 2 Vs. Lexington KF (Guam Roads)=== 
T-In
T-Its
Freedom K (2NR)

===Round 4 Vs. Rowland Hall WR (Ice Breakers)=== 
T-Vehicles
Complexity K
Psychoanalysis K (2NR)
Case

===Round 5 Vs. Bronx TM (Climate Adaptation)=== 
T-Investment
Anthro K
Nature K (2NR)
Case

===Round 6 Vs. Bronx BK (Climate Adaptation)=== 
T-Investment
Anthro K (2NR)
Nature K
Case

==MBA== 
===Round 2 Vs. Rowland Hall AS (Homelessness)=== 
Wilderson (2NR)

===Round 3 Vs. Lakeland PS (Port Security)=== 
T-Physical (2NR)
Complexity K
Ports K
Case

===Round 5 Vs. Milton GV (Space Guard)=== 
Wilderson (2NR)

==Lex== 
===Round 2 Vs. Centennial KH (Climate Resiliency)=== 
T-Physical
Vagueness (2NR)
Anthro K
Nature K
Case

===Round 3 Vs. Damien LR (Aircraft Carriers)=== 
T-Vehicles
Speculative Realism K
Psychoanalysis (2NR)
Case (2NR)

===Round 6 Vs. NYCUDL (Race Genealogy)=== 
Anthro K
Case (2NR)

===Doubles Vs. Westminster LP (NIB)=== 
Complexity (2NR)
Psychoanalysis (2NR)
Case

===Octas Vs. Bronx TM (Climate Adaptation)=== 
T-Physical
Vagueness (2NR)
Anthro K
Nature K

==Pensburry== 
===Round 1 Vs. Atholton DH (Climate Resiliency)=== 
T-Vagueness
T-Physical (2NR)
Anthro K
Nature K
Case

===Round 3 Vs. Lexington BL (NIB)=== 
Investment Banks Bad
It DA (2NR)
Complexity
Psychoanalysis
Case

==Harvard== 
===Round 2 Vs. McDonogh RE (Climate Resiliency)=== 
T-Vagueness
T-Physical
Anthro K (2NR)
Nature K
Case

===Round 3 Vs. Westminster PB (NIB)=== 
Complexity
Cap K (2NR)
Case

===Round 5 Vs. Greenhill GR (Bering Strait)=== 
T-Investment
Complexity
Psychoanalysis (2NR)
Case

===Round 7 Vs. Hendrickson SB (Disabilities)=== 
Anthro K (2NR)
Case

===Doubles Vs. Bronx BK (Climate Disposability)=== 
Wilderson (2NR)

===Octas Vs. Westminster LP (NIB)=== 
Complexity
Cap K (2NR)
Case

==Lakeland== 
===Round 2 Vs. Bronx Law AL (Wilderson)=== 
Anthro K (2NR)
Case

===Round 3 Vs. River Hill DD (Courts Accessibility)=== 
Plan Flaw
Vagueness
Wilderson (2NR)

===Round 5 Vs. Centennial HK (Walk Away From the State)=== 
Anthro K (2NR)
Case (2NR)

===Octas Vs. Lexington KL (Consumerism)=== 
Deleuze K (2NR)
Case (2NR)

===Quarters Vs. BCC BG (Katrina Disposability)=== 
Anthro K (2NR)
Case (2NR)

==TOCs== 
===Round 1 Vs. Bronx Law AL (Pa'Lante)=== 
Anthro K (2NR)
Case (2NR)

===Round 3 Vs. Leland KL (Poetry)=== 
Inherency Spec
Ignorance K
Anthro K
Psychopessimism K (2NR)
Case (2NR)

===Round 6 Vs. Notre Dame DB (LA Bus Narrative)=== 
Wilderson (2NR)

===Round 7 Vs. GBS CC (Ableism)=== 
Psychopessimism K (2NR)
Anthro K
Case