[[toc]]
=Round 1 - Aff vs. MBA BH - T. Mahoney= 
==1AC== 
===Accidents=== 

Advantage 1 is false alarms
Russian early warning systems are failing making false alarms inevitable
Forden et al 2K [Geoffrey Forden, Pavel Podvig and Theodore A. Postol, “False alarm, nuclear danger,” [[http://russianforces.org/podvig/2000/03/false_alarm_nuclear_danger.shtml]]; Geoffrey Forden is an analyst in the National Security Division of the U.S. Congressional Budget Office. He holds a Ph.D. in experimental high-energy physics, a field in which he has done research in the United States and Europe. Pavel Podvig is a researcher at the Center for Arms Control, Energy, and Environmental Studies at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology. He graduated from the general and applied physics department there in 1988. Podvig has written about the politics of missile defenses, the future of Russian strategic forces, and the U.S.-Russian strategic relationship. He is the editor of Russian Strategic Nuclear Weapons (IzdAT, Moscow, 1998). Theodore A. Postol has been professor of science, technology, and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in Cambridge, since 1989. Before that, he worked at Argonne National Laboratory as a research physicist, at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment as an analyst studying the MX missile, and at the Pentagon as the assistant for weapons technology to the chief of naval operations.

Those satellites, known as Defense Support Program (DSP) satellites, can detect the infrared energy radiated from the hot exhaust of a missile's rocket engine launched from anywhere on the earth's surface. DSP satellites reportedly detected all the Iraqi Scud missiles launched during the Persian Gulf War, which also marked the first time the general public became aware of their existence. Though designed to provide an early-warning alert of missile launches on the other side of the earth, their most important function to date has been to assure policymakers that missiles have not, in fact, been launched.
The 1979 incident was not the only false alarm to nearly trigger nuclear war. Shortly after dawn on 25 January 1995, Russian radars detected a rocket launched from an island off the northwest coast of Norway. Because of the limited resolution of the radars, they could determine only that the altitude and speed of the rocket looked like those of a U.S. Trident nuclear missile. Also, although the observed rocket was heading away from Russia, it was on a trajectory that could be used to blind Russian radars and prevent them from detecting an attack from U.S. land-based Minuteman or MX missiles or submarine-based Tridents. Official details of the event have never been released, but most probably, the rocket set off automated warning alarms at the radar sites, which then notified military commanders in Moscow and elsewhere.
What happened next throughout the Russian command structure is not known, except that then-President Boris Yeltsin was directly involved in the assessment of the warning alarms and the decision not to launch a nuclear retaliation against the West.
Some Western analysts worry that this incident represented a possible failure of Russia's command-and-control system. Russian experts, understandably irritated by alarmist statements in the West that suggest Russian incompetence, have countered that this case proved that their system works, even under a grave threat.
Whatever the truth may be, an analysis of the state of Russia's early-warning satellites at that time indicates that the country's leaders had reliable information that no nuclear attack was under way from land-based Minuteman or MX missiles. But they were unable to determine reliably whether they were under attack from the more capable U.S. nuclear Trident forces in the Atlantic and Pacific--which means that the warning system in 1995 was far from adequate. The fact that Russia did not mistakenly launch a counterattack on the United States at that time hardly guarantees that when future warning system accidents occur, they will lead to the same nondisastrous outcome.
Indeed, because of the prolonged effects of Russia's floundering economy, if a similar incident occurred today, Russian leaders would have far less information than they had in 1995. Currently, Russia is totally blind to a Trident attack from the Atlantic and Pacific, and, for all practical purposes, it is equally blind to a Minuteman or MX attack from the continental United States. With the breakup of the Soviet Union, Russia lost an important radar station in Latvia that was designed to warn of nuclear attack from the Atlantic. Plus, there is still an unmonitored corridor of attack from the Pacific. The result is that crucial gaps are evident in Russia's early-warning radar fence [Fig. 1].
What's more, the satellite constellation that in 1995 provided the country's leaders with reassurance that a Minuteman or MX attack was not under way has since suffered from the consequences of both mechanical failures in space and economic failure on the ground. The constellation can perform its early-warning mission only if each satellite is maintained in highly specialized elliptical orbits. Each orbit is fixed relative to the others so that the satellites will pass in sequence high over northern Europe, from which they can each in turn see the space above U.S. missile fields.
Now, however, most of the satellites have failed, or reached the end of their lives, and are drifting out of control. This has resulted in the development of large gaps in coverage during any given 24-hour period. In fact, the U.S. Congressional Budget Office, a federal body that provides Congress with analyses needed to make economic and budget decisions, has estimated that these satellites can work no more than 17 hours of each day, and possibly much less.
As for the newest generation of Russian satellites, designed to warn against submarine missile attack, the system is still inoperable. At present, only one Russian geostationary early-warning satellite, Cosmos 2224, is working, and that was launched in 1992. Given the limited capabilities of these satellites today, and the gaping holes in the ground-based early-warning radar system, it is obvious that the Russians cannot use these systems to reassure themselves that they are not under attack.
These shortfalls in the early-warning system and the faltering political relationship between the United States and Russia increase the chances that an unforeseen set of events will trigger a massive coordinated launch of the latter's nuclear forces. If such an event were to occur, in addition to massive strikes against the United States, it is almost certain that nuclear warheads would fall on other North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies, as well as on other countries that pose a threat to Russia. While various recommendations have been put forward to improve the country's early-warning capabilities, to date little has been done.
Spotting the dangers
Obviously, a deteriorating Russian command-and-control system that cannot distinguish between a benign event and a real attack poses a worldwide threat. Far less obvious is what problems really exist and how they might be solved. Some Russians have openly discussed the issues raised by the potential for accidents in both sides' early-warning systems. But others deny to this day the occurrence of any false alarms--despite first-hand accounts, published in both Russia and the West, of a serious Russian false alarm amid the Cold War tensions of 1983 [see "Colonel Petrov's good judgment"], as well as the post-Cold War incident in 1995.
Fortunately, the physical processes used to detect missiles in flight, the celestial mechanics that govern satellite orbits, and publicly available information released over the years by the U.S. Department of Defense make it possible to construct a fairly complete picture of both sides' early-warning capabilities. The results of such analyses can help in understanding, even without access to classified Russian or U.S. information, what can be done to reduce the danger of nuclear war from accidents that could cause false alerts.
The 1995 incident started harmlessly enough. Shortly before sunrise, NASA, in collaboration with Norwegian scientists, launched a four-stage Black Brant XII rocket to study the Northern Lights from an island off the coast of Norway.
The launch was no rarity. Andoya Island is the site of a sounding rocket launch facility, from which many scientific experiments have been fired. But the Black Brant XII had a different configuration from that of other rockets typically launched from Andoya, one that, to the low-resolution Russian early-warning radars, made it indistinguishable from a Trident missile in powered flight.
The coincidences that led the Black Brant to be mistaken for a Trident are uncanny, and should be taken as a sobering warning that accidents in these early-warning systems can and will happen again. The rocket's first and second stages were discarded at a low altitude, never rising to a height where they could be seen by the radar. The third-stage motor also burned out below the radar horizon, but was then carried over the horizon by its momentum. At that point, it was trailing the Black Brant at a speed and distance similar to those between a Trident and its discarded first stage. As the Black Brant's fourth stage rose higher over the radar horizon, its velocity and altitude resembled those of a Trident during its second-stage powered flight. Add to these circumstances the Black Brant's ejection of its nosecone at an altitude and speed similar to those of a Trident. That event led to yet another radar signature tending to confirm that the unknown rocket was a Trident [Fig. 2]. It is a near certainty that the computers on Russia's early-warning radars were programmed to issue an alarm when these signatures were observed in the radar data.

Incomplete information will force Russia to retaliate
NTRC 5 [The Nuclear Threat Reduction Campaign (NTRC), a joint project of Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and The Justice Project, educates and mobilizes key constituencies on a centrist, bipartisan basis to advance public policy that reduces the threat posed by nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, “U.S.-Russian Ballistic-Missile Early-Warning Cooperation,” [[http://www.veteransforamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/01/22-early-warning-final.pdf]]]

The deficiencies in Russia’s E-W system create dangers for the U.S. ironically because of the more capable U.S. strategic force and the nuclear posture that Russia may believe it must maintain. We have a nuclear force ready for launch in a very few minutes—about 1,300 submarine-based nuclear warheads deployed at sea that could reach targets in Russia within 10 to 15 minutes,5 along with 500 land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles with multiple warheads6 that could reach Russia in about 30 minutes.7 Most of this nuclear force (primarily our submarine-based missiles) would survive a Russian first strike. By contrast, Russia has only about 20 to 200 nuclear weapons that could survive a U.S. attack; and it may consider this an insufficient deterrent. To counter this vulnerability, Russia may adopt a “launch-on-warning” strategy, particularly during a period of international tension, making about 1,900 strategic nuclear warheads ready for launch within minutes of an attack order being given.8
Thus, if Russia were to detect an incoming missile attack—or erroneously conclude that one likely was underway—the Russian president would have, at best, only about 10 minutes in which to try to obtain verification and decide either to order an immediate counterattack or to run the risk that attacking warheads would destroy Russia’s ability to retaliate on a massive scale. While making this decision whether to “use them or lose them,” the Russian leadership would be confounded by the knowledge that its E-W system could be providing false information that an attack was underway or, by virtue of the gaps in its coverage, leave them with no way to verify whether a suspected attack was real.
The above-mentioned RAND study ascribes the resulting dangers for the U.S. to two main reasons:
First, without a clear, accurate picture of what is happening around the globe, Russia may confuse a benign event (such as a space launch) for a nuclear attack, possibly prompting a decision to launch a nuclear strike. Second, without a properly functioning, two-tiered E-W system, Russia will have less time available to decide … whether to launch a retaliatory response.9

Rapid escalation is inevitable – none of their defense assumes C3I vulnerability
Ford 10 [Christopher, Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C., former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, reserve intelligence officer in the U.S. Navy, “Playing for Time on the Edge of the Apocalypse: Maximizing Decision Time for Nuclear Leaders,” http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Decision%20Time%20Final%20for%20Print.pdf]

Yet this is not the end of the story, for sophisticated advocates of de-alerting measures do not necessarily contend that LOW is actually official policy. Rather, scholars such as Blair suggest that no matter what official policy is, U.S. and Russian decision-makers face formidable incentives to launch on warning anyway – as long as that option is technically available – because force and command-system vulnerabilities leave them with no alternative to LOW if they are to inflict the desired level of retaliatory damage on the enemy. Because both sides effectively lack a genuine “ride-out” option, the argument goes, they would be left, in practice, with little choice but to adopt a de facto LOW policy, which is indeed just as dangerously destabilizing and prone to accident as the more hawkish Wohlstetters and Kahns always believed. (Indeed, it is perhaps worse, insofar as the critics allege that the nuclear superpowers’ command-and-control systems are very likely at some point to give rise to an uncaught false alarm or some other accident likely to trip their de facto LOW postures into catastrophic motion.) Through this prism, de-alerting is said to become necessary as a means to prevent vulnerabilities from giving rise to launch-on-warning decisions by making it technically impossible to launch during the very brief span of time between detection of what looks like an enemy attack and its presumed time of impact.
Let us examine this argument in more detail, for it lies at the heart of the de-alerting debate – and perhaps our way out of it. As indicated, the most sophisticated and articulate critiques of current nuclear force postures, in which at least some forces are set up for extremely rapid launch, are Bruce Blair and Scott Sagan, who offer different but complimentary arguments. Blair’s account revolves around the incentives for a launch-on-warning posture he says are created by the vulnerability not just (or even principally) of nuclear forces themselves (e.g., missile silos) but of the command, control, communications, and intelligence (C3I) architectures upon which their employment in actual nuclear warfighting depends. In his view, in effect, both nuclear superpowers’ longstanding investments in survivable second-strike nuclear weapons to some extent missed the point – or at least proved radically incomplete – insofar as they failed to provide Washington and Moscow with a genuine ability to mount and manage a retaliatory strike because national C3I systems would be too damaged by a massive nuclear exchange to handle the demands of second-strike battle management.32 Both countries are thus said to have faced tremendous incentives for launch-on-warning – in practice, at least, whether or not this was official policy – because it was presumably clear to their nuclear planners that C3I degradation and outright force attrition (e.g., high losses of silo-based ballistic missiles and non-alerted bomber forces) from an enemy attack would prevent its recipient from mounting the kind of retaliatory strike it deemed necessary.33

The reset doesn’t solve – lingering tensions and inevitable crises mean conflict is still possible
Arbatov and Dvorkin 6 [Alexei Arbatov, Scholar-in-Residence and Program Co-chair of Nuclear Nonproliferation at the Carnegie Moscow Center and head of the Center for International Security at the Institute for International Economy and International Relationships of the Russian Academy of Sciences; Vladimir Dvorkin, senior researcher at the Center for International Security at the Institute for World Economy and International Relations of the Russian Academy of Sciences and former director of the Fourth Central Research Institute in Moscow, “Beyond Nuclear Deterrence: Transforming the U.S.–Russian Equation,” http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf]

Even when dramatic changes occur in the political relations between nuclear states that make them stop seeing each other as adversaries, as with Russia and the United States following the Cold War, these states’ armed forces, and foremost their nuclear forces, retain the powerful momentum of confrontation and competition. These forces cannot adjust to new cooperative political relations on their own without political and technical efforts that are consistent, well designed, and bilateral.
Furthermore, newly emerging adversaries, contingencies, and challenges brought about by nuclear proliferation and various conflicts of national interests may destabilize strategic relations between the former enemies. The result can be increased tensions in their strategic policies, with highly detrimental political, military, and legal arms control consequences.
For example, the 2002 U.S. decision to test and deploy a strategic ballistic missile defense (BMD) system, allegedly designed to defend the United States from the new countries (that is, “rogue states”) possessing ballistic missiles, and Washington’s withdrawal from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty, made Russia place increased reliance on its offensive strategic nuclear force. Thus, Moscow extended the service lives of those of its heavy intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) equipped with multiple independently targeted reentry vehicles (MIRVs) and even purchased a few dozen MIRV missiles from Ukraine’s stockpile. Also, as reported by President Vladimir Putin, Russia has accelerated development of a new strategic offensive weapon system fitted with a gliding and maneuvering reentry vehicle designed to penetrate “any BMD system.” In keeping with post-Cold War sensitivities no specific opponent has been mentioned, but this new system can only be assumed to be intended to target the United States.

The impact is extinction
Helfand and Pastore ‘9 [John, Ira – Physicians for Social Responsibility. ”US-Russia Nuclear War is Still a Threat” [[http://www.projo.com/|www.projo.com]], 3/31/9 //GBS-JV]

Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not. There remain in the world more than 20,000 nuclear weapons. Alarmingly, more than 2,000 of these weapons in the U.S. and Russian arsenals remain on ready-alert status, commonly known as hair-trigger alert. They can be fired within five minutes and reach targets in the other country 30 minutes later.
Just one of these weapons can destroy a city. A war involving a substantial number would cause devastation on a scale unprecedented in human history. A study conducted by Physicians for Social Responsibility in 2002 showed that if only 500 of the Russian weapons on high alert exploded over our cities, 100 million Americans would die in the first 30 minutes.
An attack of this magnitude also would destroy the entire economic, communications and transportation infrastructure on which we all depend. Those who survived the initial attack would inhabit a nightmare landscape with huge swaths of the country blanketed with radioactive fallout and epidemic diseases rampant. They would have no food, no fuel, no electricity, no medicine, and certainly no organized health care. In the following months it is likely the vast majority of the U.S. population would die.
Recent studies by the eminent climatologists Toon and Robock have shown that such a war would have a huge and immediate impact on climate world wide. If all of the warheads in the U.S. and Russian strategic arsenals were drawn into the conflict, the firestorms they caused would loft 180 million tons of soot and debris into the upper atmosphere — blotting out the sun. Temperatures across the globe would fall an average of 18 degrees Fahrenheit to levels not seen on earth since the depth of the last ice age, 18,000 years ago. Agriculture would stop, eco-systems would collapse, and many species, including perhaps our own, would become extinct.
===Cooperation=== 


Advantage 2 is space cooperation – it’s failing now
RADYUHIN 11 [Vladimir, Moscow correspondent of The Hindu, July 29, 2011, “Now begins the era of the Soyuz,” http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/lead/article2306053.ece]

The pooling of resources could help Russia and the U.S. develop a new generation of space vehicles faster and at a lesser cost. Experts say interplanetary missions would be too costly and technologically challenging for any nation. Two years ago, Russia and the U.S. set up a working group on space within a joint presidential commission for bilateral cooperation. However, the two countries are still largely going their separate ways. They are building two different space shuttle systems — a Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle in the U.S. and a Prospective Piloted Transport System in Russia — and are drawing up separate programmes for the exploration of the Moon and the Mars.
Prospects for cooperation improved after President Barack Obama last year signed a new National Space Policy that placed emphasis on international cooperation, openness and transparency in space in contrast to President George W. Bush's strategy of global supremacy. However, a strong military space component in the U.S. global missile shield plan, which Russia sees as a threat to its security, is likely to hamper cooperation in the development of new space hardware.

Cooperation is key to relations and prevents a space arms race
Savelyev 04, Alexander Head of Sector Geopolitics of Strategic Analysis IMEMO Vice-President of the Institute of National Security and Strategic Studies (INBSI), “ Prospects for US-Russian Cooperation in Ballistic Missile Defense and Outer Space Activities” Journal of Slavic Military Studies 17: 99–109, 2004, [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13518040490440674]] NEH)

Space, for many very understandable reasons, is the most realistic arena in which Russia and the US could try to overcome the historical obstacles in the path of promoting world security and strategic stability through cooperation in practically all current and prospective areas. Joint responsibility on the part of Russia and the US in this field could help solve many problems that the two countries face in the new century. Cooperation between Russia and the US can play the central role in solving the task of global monitoring of outer space using national information assets, including early-warning satellites and ground-based ABM systems. Data exchange on space objects, the environment and other matters, can also contribute to strategic stability and international security. Cooperation in the field of space control could help to work out a legal basis for international inspections of all space systems to be launched into orbit, as well as for international data exchange on hostile activities against these systems and their elements. However, in order to move toward broad and successful US-Russian cooperation (to which, in principle, there are no serious alternatives) that is both stable and forward-looking, not only must the parties choose the optimal nature of their behavior, they must also create a new model of inter-governmental links. The basis of such a model must be the agreed-upon joint responsibility of the two states for global peace and stability, and for the character, ways and the consequences of the development of international space activities. Regarding US-Russian cooperation in the ABM sphere, it is too early to speak of some large-scale program in this field. But that conclusion does not exclude the possibility of stable movement toward the development of a new international security system, with the participation not only of the two ‘great space states’, but also of other interested parties that are ready to share the responsibility for creating a new world order. Such cooperation would raise the general level of security relations and could become a decisive limiting factor against an arms race in outer space. It would also stimulate the process of developing a positive strategy for space exploration.

That causes global WMD conflict
<span style="color: #000000;">Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, 'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

It’s reverse causal – failure to cooperate undermines all other cooperation
Logsdon and Millar 01 – (February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University, [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf]] DH)

Yet, to one participant, "If nothing else, good relations in the area of space policy help provide us with a cushion when they are failing in other areas. . . . Moscow’s military as well as its space program are in very dire straits. Both would seem to be close to cardiac arrest. Having said that, I think our interactions with the Russians in both of these areas are critical to our future bilateral relationship. It would be easy to dismiss the Russians as serious players given their internal situation- an attitude often heard around Washington. To a large degree, we have to carry the ball for them. . . . So why should we continue to pick up the tab? Why should the American taxpayer continue to subsidize the Russian space program - or our military to military contacts? It seems to me that there are two answers to this question. First, when it comes to the space program we are dealing with a very high visibility program. If we ignore the Russian space program, we run the risk of wounding their pride in a very serious way. They don?t need to be told that they are down and out. They know it better than we do. My experience with Russians tells me that they are experts when it comes to knowing the extent of their technological inferiority vis-a-vis the West - or put differently, just how far they are behind us. But by keeping them involved in the space program we are at least giving them a psychological fig leaf."

The reset with Russia has stalled – renewed cooperation is necessary to prevent escalating tensions and relations collapse
Allison 10-31, Graham, <span style="text-decoration: none;">director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School and a former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, </span>Robert D. Blackwill is the Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, General Charles G. Boyd, U.S. Air Force (Ret.), is the Starr Distinguished National Security Fellow at the Center for the National Interest, Richard Burt serves as managing director at McLarty Associates, where he has led the firm’s work in Europe and Eurasia since 2007, Ambassador James F. Collins was appointed the director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in January of 2007, John Deutch is an Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. Richard A. Falkenrath is a Principal with The Chertoff Group, Thomas Graham is a managing director at Kissinger Associates, Inc., where he focuses on Russian and Eurasian affairs, Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and Associate Professor of International Relations at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, Mr. Maurice R. Greenberg is Chairman and CEO of C. V. Starr and Co., Inc, Dr. Fiona Hill is director of the Center on the United States and Europe, and senior fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at The Brookings Institution, General James Jones, USMC (Ret) was appointed as the 22nd National Security Advisor to the President of the United States on January 20, 2009, Kenneth I. Juster is a partner and managing director at the global private equity firm Warburg Pincus, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad is a counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, General Richard B. Myers retired as the 15th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 2005, Sam Nunn is Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a charitable organization working to reduce the global threats from nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, Paul Saunders is Executive Director of the Center for the National Interest and Associate Publisher of The National Interest, Dimitri Simes is President and CEO of the Center for the National Interest and Publisher of its foreign policy magazine, The National Interest, Ashley J. Tellis is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues, J. Robinson West is Chairman of the Board and CEO of PFC Energy as well as Chairman of the Board of The United States Institute of Peace, Dov S. Zakheim is Vice Chairman of the Center for The National Interest. He is also Senior Advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and Senior Fellow at CNA, Philip Zelikow is a professor of history at the University of Virginia, where he is also a dean leading the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. [“Russia and U.S. National Interests Why Should Americans Care?” October, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs] HURWITZJust as the United States should expect Russia to adjust many of its policies to achieve a sustainable cooperative relationship, Washington should recognize that Moscow is unlikely to support U.S. policy goals if the U.S.-Russian relationship significantly deteriorates. As a result, the failure to establish an ongoing working relationship with Russia would be quite costly for the United States. As a practical matter, even a stalled relationship could be problematic. The United States and Russia are both motivated to improve relations largely on the basis of hopes for what a stronger relationship could produce. If the prospects for realizing those hopes become too remote, it is uncertain whether what has been accomplished so far is sufficient to prevent our substantial remaining differences from tearing the U.S.-Russian relationship apart. U.S. officials must carefully weigh not only the American national interests in working more closely with Russia, but also the costs and benefits of failing to do so, keeping in mind Moscow’s capacity to act as a spoiler in a number of areas and on a number of issues that are of vital national interest to Washington. In our considered judgment, the choice is clear: the United States should pursue a sustainable cooperative relationship with Russia to advance vital American national interests, but do so without illusions regarding either Moscow’s sometimes neo-imperial ambitions, or the pace of democratic change in Russia.

Russia’s key to make international cooperation effective
Rojansky and Collins 10 (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409]],)

A year and a half after Barack Obama hit the "reset" button with Russia, the reconciliation is still fragile, incomplete, and politically divisive. Sure, Russia is no easy ally for the United States. Authoritarian yet insecure, economically mighty yet technologically backward, the country has proven a challenge for U.S. presidents since the end of the Cold War. Recent news hasn't helped: The arrest in July of a former deputy prime minister and leader of the Solidarity opposition movement, Boris Nemtsov, provoked some of the harshest criticism of Russia yet from the Obama administration. Then last Wednesday, Russia announced that it had moved anti-aircraft missiles into Abkhazia, the region that broke off from Georgia during the August 2008 war. The announcement was hardly welcome news for the United States, which has tried to defuse tensions there for the last 24 months. Yet however challenging this partnership may be, Washington can't afford not to work with Moscow. Ronald Reagan popularized the phrase, "Trust, but verify" -- a good guiding principle for Cold War arms negotiators, and still apt for today. Engagement is the only way forward. Here are 10 reasons why:
1. Russia's nukes are still an existential threat. Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Russia has thousands of nuclear weapons in stockpile and hundreds still on hair-trigger alert aimed at U.S. cities. This threat will not go away on its own; cutting down the arsenal will require direct, bilateral arms control talks between Russia and the United States. New START, the strategic nuclear weapons treaty now up for debate in the Senate, is the latest in a long line of bilateral arms control agreements between the countries dating back to the height of the Cold War. To this day, it remains the only mechanism granting U.S. inspectors access to secret Russian nuclear sites. The original START agreement was essential for reining in the runaway Cold War nuclear buildup, and New START promises to cut deployed strategic arsenals by a further 30 percent from a current limit of 2,200 to 1,550 on each side. Even more, President Obama and his Russian counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, have agreed to a long-term goal of eliminating nuclear weapons entirely. But they can only do that by working together.
2. Russia is a swing vote on the international stage. As one of the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, Moscow holds veto power over any resolution that the body might seek to pass -- including recent efforts to levy tougher sanctions on Iran or, in 2009, against North Korea following that country's second nuclear test. Russian support for such resolutions can also help persuade China and others not to block them. The post-reset relationship between Moscow and Washington works like a force multiplier for U.S. diplomacy. Russia plays an equally crucial role in the G-8 and G-20 economic groups, helping to formulate a coordinated approach in response to economic threats. In 2008, for example, Russia supported a G-20 resolution promising to refrain from protectionism and avoid new barriers to investment or trade.

That solves nuclear war and global instability
Fareed Zakaria, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/08, http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249

The "Global Trends" report identifies several worrying aspects of the new international order—competition for resources like oil, food, commodities and water; climate change; continued terrorist threats; and demographic shifts. But the most significant point it makes is that these changes are taking place at every level and at great speed in the global system. Nations with differing political and economic systems are flourishing. Subnational groups, with varied and contradictory agendas, are on the rise. Technology is increasing the pace of change. Such ferment is usually a recipe for instability. Sudden shifts can trigger sudden actions—terrorist attacks, secessionist outbreaks, nuclear brinksmanship.
The likelihood of instability might increase because of the economic crisis. Despite some booms and busts—as well as 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq—the world has been living through an economic golden age. Global growth has been stronger for the past five years than in any comparable period for almost five decades. Average per capita income has risen faster than in any such period in recorded history. But that era is over. The next five years are likely to be marked by slow growth, perhaps even stagnation and retreat, in certain important areas. What will be the political effects of this slowdown? Historically, economic turmoil has been accompanied by social unrest, nationalism and protectionism. We might avoid these dangers, but it is worth being acutely aware of them.
At the broadest level, the objective of the United States should be to stabilize the current global order and to create mechanisms through which change—the rise of new powers, economic turmoil, the challenge of subnational groups like Al Qaeda—can be accommodated without overturning the international order. Why? The world as it is organized today powerfully serves America's interests and ideals. The greater the openness of the global system, the better the prospects for trade, commerce, contact, pluralism and liberty.
Any strategy that is likely to succeed in today's world will be one that has the active support and participation of many countries. Consider the financial crisis, which several Western governments initially tried to handle on their own. They seemed to forget about globalization—and nothing is more globalized than capital. Belatedly recognizing this, leaders held the G20 meeting in Washington. This was a good first step (though just a first step). Without a coordinated approach, efforts to patch up the system will fail.
The same applies not just to "soft" problems of the future—pandemics, climate change—but to current security challenges as well. The problem of multilateralism in Afghanistan—a place where everyone claims to be united in the struggle—is a sad test case for the future. Thirty-seven nations, operating with the blessing of the United Nations and attacking an organization that has brutally killed civilians in dozens of countries, are still unable to succeed. Why? There are many reasons, but it does not help that few countries involved—from our European allies to Pakistan—are genuinely willing to put aside their narrow parochial interests for a broader common one. Terrorism in South Asia generally requires effective multinational cooperation. Business as usual will produce terrorism that will become usual.
National rivalries, some will say, are in the nature of international politics. But that's no longer good enough. Without better and more sustained cooperation, it is difficult to see how we will solve most of the major problems of the 21st century. The real crisis we face is not one of capitalism or American decline, but of globalization itself. As the problems spill over borders, the demand for common action has gone up. But the institutions and mechanisms to make it happen are in decline. The United Nations, NATO and the European Union are all functioning less effectively than they should be. I hold no brief for any specific institution. The United Nations, especially the Security Council, is flawed and dysfunctional. But we need some institutions for global problem-solving, some mechanisms to coordinate policy. Unless we can find ways to achieve this, we should expect more crises and less success at solving them.
In a world characterized by change, more and more countries—especially great powers like Russia and China and India—will begin to chart their own course. That in turn will produce greater instability. America cannot forever protect every sea lane, broker every deal and fight every terrorist group. Without some mechanisms to solve common problems, the world as we have come to know it, with an open economy and all the social and political benefits of this openness, will flounder and perhaps reverse.

Independently, Russian cooperation salvages climate talks and prevents rapid warming
Charap et al 9 [Samuel Charap, Fellow in National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Laura Conley, Special Assistant for National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Peter Juul, Research Associate at the Center for American Progress; Andrew Light, Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress specializing in climate, energy, and science policy; Julian L. Wong, Senior Policy Analyst with the Energy Opportunity team at the Center for American Progress, July 2009, “After the “Reset”: A strategy and new agenda for U.S. Russia policy”]

Enhancing cooperation on energy efficiency and climate change should be a major plank of U.S. Russia policy. Russia is a significant contributor to global warming—if the European Union is disaggregated, then it is the third largest emitter behind the United States and China and ahead of India—and will therefore play a key role in discussions on the post-Kyoto climate agreement. Russia is also the third largest consumer of energy and one of world’s most energy-intensive economies.
Making Russia a partner on these issues can contribute to the Obama administration’s climate-change agenda and enhance the energy security of our European allies by eventually making more Russian natural gas available for export.
Cooperation on Copenhagen
The United States should directly engage Russia on reaching a new international climate change agreement. An extension or successor to the Kyoto treaty will be negotiated at the U.N. climate talks in Copenhagen at the end of this year. The buildup to that meeting is bringing into focus the need for broad-based involvement from all countries— especially the developed countries and major emerging economies in the developing world—to create a consensus on global climate change action. There is insufficient attention being paid to the role that Russia will play in a new agreement given its status as a major contributor to the problem of global warming and the fact that it is a signatory of the Kyoto Protocol.
The likely structure of the Copenhagen treaty makes Russia one of the unacknowledged keys to success. The Kyoto agreement could not have been enacted unless at least 55 countries representing at least 55 percent of global carbon emissions signed and ratified it. The signatories at the time did not meet the latter criterion, and it would therefore not have gone into effect if then-President Putin had not signed the treaty in November 2004. We can expect a similar proviso in the post-Kyoto treaty, and a Russian signature will likely again be critical.
The Russians are likely to be opposed to stronger caps on emissions and domestic mitigation mechanisms in a new treaty, since those in the Kyoto Protocol will not require them to make emissions cuts until around 2020.29 Yet without more stringent caps the goal of cutting global emissions in half by 2050—which is necessary to avoid the worst consequences of climate change—will be significantly harder to achieve.
We therefore need to bring Russia on board in order to avoid a deadlock in international climate negotiations. The administration should work with the Russians to demonstrate that emissions caps further economic modernization—one of the Kremlin’s oft-repeated goals—and sustain growth and thus are in their long-term economic interest. Immediate bilateral engagement is key to making Russia a partner in addressing climate change. It is not in the U.S. interest for Russia to be a reluctant participant or a spoiler. We must listen and not lecture, since a finger-wagging approach will only backfire in the Russian context.

Extinction
Costello 11, Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ
Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority. The United Nations Convention on Climate Change was set up in 1992 to ensure that nations worked together to minimize the adverse effects, but McMichael and Neira noted that, in preparation for the Copenhagen conference in December 2009, only four of 47 nations mentioned human health as a consideration [1]. With business as usual, global warming caused by rising greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will threaten mass populations through increased transmission of some infections, heat stress, food and water insecurity, increased deaths from more frequent and extreme climate events, threats to shelter and security, and through population migration [2]. On the one hand it is necessary in the media to counter climate change sceptics and denialists, but on the other it is also important not to allow climate catastrophists, who tell us it is all too late, to deflect us from pragmatic and positive action. Catastrophic scenarios are possible in the longer term, and effective action will be formidably difficult, but evidence suggests that we do have the tools, the time and the resources to bring about the changes needed for climate stability. 2. Climate change evidence and denial Given the current body of evidence, it is surprising that global warming and its causal relationship with atmospheric GHG pollution is disputed any more than the relationship between acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, or lung cancer and cigarette smoking. The basic principles that determine the Earth’s temperature are, of course, relatively simple. Some of the short-wave solar radiation that strikes the Earth is reflected back into space and some is absorbed by the land and emitted as long-wave radiation (heat). Some of the long-wave radiation is trapped in the atmosphere by ‘greenhouse gases’, which include water vapour, carbon dioxide and methane. Without GHGs the Earth would be on average 33◦C colder. Over the last 150 years, since the Industrial Revolution, humans have been adding more carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere. The result is that the Earth’s atmosphere, ocean and land are indeed warming—due to increased atmospheric ‘greenhouse gas’ concentrations [3]. Gleick et al. [4], from the US National Academy of Sciences, wrote a letter to Science stating ‘There is compelling, comprehensive, and consistent objective evidence that humans are changing the climate in ways that threaten our societies and the ecosystems on which we depend’. The most recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) [5], amounting to nearly 3000 pages of detailed review and analysis of published research, also declares that the scientific uncertainties of global warming are essentially resolved. This report states that there is clear evidence for a 0.75◦C rise in global temperatures and 22 cm rise in sea level during the twentieth century. The IPCC synthesis also predicts that global temperatures could rise further by between 1.1◦C and 6.4◦C by 2100, and sea level could rise by between 28 and 79 cm, or more if the melting of Greenland and Antarctica accelerates. In addition, weather patterns will become less predictable and the occurrence of extreme climate events, such as storms, floods, heat waves and droughts, will increase. There is also strong evidence for ocean acidification driven by more carbon dioxide dissolving in the oceans [6]. Given the current failure of international negotiations to address carbon emission reductions, and that atmospheric warming lags behind rises in CO2 concentration, there is concern that global surface temperature will rise above the supposedly ‘safe limit’ of 2◦C within this century. Each doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration alone is expected to produce 1.9–4.5◦C of warming at equilibrium [7]. Of course, climate modelling is an extremely complex process, and uncertainty with projections relating to future emissions trajectories means that the time scale and magnitude of future climate change cannot be predicted with certainty [8]. These uncertainties are magnified when future climate predictions are used to estimate potential impacts. For example, the environmental impacts of climate change are also uncertain, but could underestimate such impacts because they detrimentally interact with habitat loss, pollution and loss of biodiversity due to other causes. There is also the additional problem that switching from biome to biome may not be directly reversible. For example, rainforest recycles a huge amount of water so it can survive a significant amount of aridification before it burns and is replaced by savannah. But the region then has to get much wetter before rainforest can return, as there is greatly reduced water cycling in savannah [9]. In the policy arena, further uncertainty surrounds the desire for international agreements on emission cuts, and the possible routes to such agreement and implementation. The feasible speed of technological innovation in carbon capture and provision of renewable/low-carbon energy resources is also uncertain. Denying the causes or the current weight of evidence for anthropogenic climate change is irrational, just as the existence of ‘uncertainties’ should not be used to deny the need for proportionate action, when such uncertainties could underestimate the risks and impact of climate change. There is no reason for inaction and there are many ways we can use our current knowledge of climate change to improve health provision for current and future generations. 3. Catastrophism At the other end of the scale are doom-mongers who predict catastrophic population collapse and the end of civilization. In the early nineteenth century, the French palaeontologist Georges Cuvier first addressed catastrophism and explained patterns of extinction observed in the fossil record through catastrophic natural events [10]. We know now of five major extinctions: the Ordovician–Silurian extinction (439 million years ago), the Late Devonian extinction (about 364 million years ago), the Permian–Triassic extinction (about 251 million years ago), the End Triassic extinction (roughly 199 million to 214 million years ago) and the Cretaceous– Tertiary extinction (about 65 million years ago). These mass extinctions were caused by a combination of plate tectonics, supervolcanism and asteroid impacts. The understanding of the mass extinctions led Gould & Eldredge [11] to update Darwin’s theory of evolution with their own theory of punctuated equilibrium. Many scientists have suggested that the current human-induced extinction rates could be as fast as those during these mass extinctions [12,13]. For example, one study predicted that 58 per cent of species may be committed to extinction by 2050 due to climate change alone [14], though this paper has been criticized [15,16]. Some people have even suggested that human extinction may not be a remote risk [17–19]. Sherwood & Huber [7] point to continued heating effects that could make the world largely uninhabitable by humans and mammals within 300 years. Peak heat stress, quantified by the wet-bulb temperature (used because it reflects both the ambient temperature and relative humidity of the site), is surprisingly similar across diverse climates and never exceeds 31◦C. They suggest that if it rose to 35◦C, which never happens now but would at a warming of 7◦C, hyperthermia in humans and other mammals would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible, therefore making many environments uninhabitable.
===Plan=== 

Thus the plan: the United States federal government should carry out its portion of the Russian American Observation Satellite project, as defined in the original project agreement. We’ll clarify.
===Solvency=== 

Contention 3 is solvency
In 2004 the United States unilaterally withdrew from the RAMOS project despite Russian interest
Samson 7 [Victoria, director of Washington Operations for the Secure World Foundation, “Prospects for Russian-American Missile Defense Cooperation: Lessons from RAMOS and JDEC,” Contemporary Security Policy, Volume 28 Issue 3]

When the Missile defense Agency ended RAMOS, it did it entirely. SDL was alerted when the budget justification documents released in February 2004 stated that the agency was going to end the program as a result of Russia’s "lack of commitment," according to Tom Humpherys, RAMOS manager at SDL.48 This again harkens back to the American perspective of the matter: take the way we want this program to be and accept it. The Russians, given the changes RAMOS had gone through in the course of its lifespan, were dubious about it but willing to give it another chance. When the United States announced that it was cutting the program, Russia was still interested in seeing how the program fared. The United States made the decision for both countries to cut it. In any case, SDL was then in the midst of a two-plus year-long critical design review awarded in December 2003 and worth $50 million.49 Said a surprised Michael Pavich, director of SDL, “We were made aware in the spring that 2005 funding for the RAMOS program would be eliminated. We were not expecting Congress to rescind already obligated 2004 funds, which resulted in the immediate contract termination notice from MDA.”50 This notice came in July 2004 and mandated that the close-out be finished by 15 September of that year.51 RAMOS was not going to come back. Instead, the United States decided it would focus more on less sweeping, yet unstated goals in cooperating with Russia on missile defense. Said Kadish at the time, “We want some small wins, if you will…I am very hopeful that we'll be able to get moving in this area."52

Reviving the program creates a mechanism for shared early warning and prevents miscalc
Ford 8 [Christopher, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation “Dilemmas of Nuclear Force ‘De-Alerting,’” [[http://www.politik.uni-kiel.de/Professuren/dokumente/krause/WS1011/GlobalZero/Sitzung4/Sitzung4_Ford_DilemmasDe-Alerting.pdf]]]

The idea of improved mutual transparency as a way to reduce accident risks – and to help manage the escalatory potential of any problems that do occur – is thus well established. The two powers have also explored additional methods to increase their reciprocal confidence levels and provide a means by which to make false alarms less likely. The United States and Russia for a time pursued the development of a joint reconnaissance satellite program, for instance, the purpose of which was to track potential ballistic missile launches and feed data directly to both governments in order to help prevent errors and misunderstandings. This Russian-American Observation Satellite (RAMOS) project originated in discussions between the first President Bush and Russian President Boris Yeltsin, and led to an agreement between the two governments in 1997 to create two satellites for the provision of shared warning data on ballistic missile attacks.
The RAMOS program had collapsed by 2004 – when the U.S. Department of Defense declined to request further funding for Fiscal Year 200586 – but its failure seems to have been the result principally of such things as cost overruns, friction between counterpart organizations, and a failure by the two governments to prioritize the effort.87 The demise of the satellite project does not appear to have about on account of any perception of fundamental strategic unwisdom or technical unfeasibility. If a firm commitment were made further to reduce accident risks, there would seem no reason, in principle, why something along such lines could not actually be implemented in the future.

Ramos tech allows Russia to repair its early warning
Forden 1 [Geoffrey, senior research fellow with the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Reducing a Common Danger: Improving Russia’s Early-Warning System,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa399.pdf]

U.S. assistance to Russia’s future earlywarning system should focus on two aspects. First, we should continue our joint research effort with Russia—known as the RussianAmerican Observation Satellites project. RAMOS has had a long and stormy history. The program started out in 1992 as an effort to engage Russia in missile defense research— a goal to which it continues to contribute. But some of the research also has significant implications for reducing the costs of Russia’s early-warning system.
One goal of RAMOS is to test a new way of filtering out reflected sunlight. If that line of inquiry is fruitful, as many scientists believe it will be, Russia and the United States will be able to deploy satellites that are no longer sensitive to reflected light, so the Russians will no longer need early-warning satellites in highly elliptical orbits. Instead, a single satellite in geostationary orbit over the Atlantic would give them all the ability that 10 do today. Relying on three such satellites would result in global coverage, considerable cost savings, and presumably allow Russia to better maintain its own satellites.
About $340 million would be needed to complete the RAMOS project. However, the United States gets considerably more than just the vital improvement in Russia’s earlywarning system. The research being done by RAMOS could directly contribute to improvements in the troubled Space-Based Infrared System—a low-satellite program that is a component of the U.S. national missile defense system. Furthermore, Russia has agreed to launch some tactical missiles for RAMOS satellites to observe; those observations should provide valuable data that the United States can use for its theater missile defenses.
After several years of tying U.S. assistance on RAMOS to Russian concessions on the ABM treaty, the Clinton administration wisely decided to remove that requirement. Unfortunately, the administration viewed the project as little more than foreign aid. RAMOS can contribute significantly to alleviating the common danger only if its scientific results are fully exploited. But scientific exploitation funds for the RAMOS program have been cut drastically. The funding is less than a sixth of what a previous space-based sensor research program spent on sciencerelated activities. For instance, millions were spent on collecting data during a preliminary RAMOS aircraft experiment, but no money has been allocated for analyzing those data. If the trend continues, the United States will have squandered hundreds of millions of dollars for RAMOS and an excellent chance to improve its own long-term security.

RAMOS overcomes mistrust and spills over to further space cooperation
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

In May 2001, BMDO officials briefed congressional staffers that a primary policy objective underlying the RAMOS program was to "develop with Russia, mutually beneficial space technologies for defense and civilian applications." BMDO officials further stated their intent that RAMOS would "increase trust between the U.S. and Russia", and would "establish groundwork for future cooperative efforts with the Russian Federation." Early successful scientific joint experiments in space-based observations suggested that such objectives were realistic. During the early phase of the program, the U.S. and Russia conducted the first joint space surveillance experiment in which observation data were exchanged between the two participants. Later, Russians flew an imaging radiometer on a U.S. satellite. The history of the program since 1998, however, belies the goal of cooperation. Mistrust has become rife on both sides and prospects for further cooperation, even during the current post-September 11th period of cooperation, are growing dim.
One important factor underlying the growing mistrust between US and Russian program officials lies in the instability which characterizes the weapons acquisition process. For decades, DoD officials have decried the "instability" which plagues the development and purchase of major weapon systems. Program plans and schedules are constantly revised; funding levels are continually adjusted both within DoD and by the Congress; and program schedules are frequently delayed to reflect those changes. Often, political interests in the Congress serve as the source of instability. RAMOS has a history similar to many other DoD programs in those respects. The important factor distinguishing RAMOS from other defense programs, however, is that RAMOS was conceived as an international "partnership" between former antagonists undertaken in large part to build trust between them.
Since its inception, the US RAMOS program and policy administrators have repeatedly directed significant changes to RAMOS plans, funds, and schedules with little input from their Russian counterparts. As a result, Russian officials and scientists increasingly question the validity of the "partnership" despite their government's repeated official statements supporting the RAMOS program. A brief summary of changes to program plans and objectives illustrates why.

Russia supports the original agreement – any CP that revises the program doesn’t solve
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The original RAMOS concept called for each country to develop its own observation satellite, both of which would be launched aboard Russian rockets into low earth orbit. The satellites, using short-, mid-, and long-wave infrared sensors, would observe and analyze various military and civilian scientific test objectives, including the firing of short-range test missiles such as SCUD missiles. Technological objectives included whether the polarization of solar glint could be used to mitigate short-wave infrared clutter for use by early warning satellites; whether missile emissions could be observed effectively against the earth's own background radiation; and whether infrared tracking could adequately observe a missile's flight pattern from below to above the horizon. The initial RAMOS plan also called for tests to observe and measure industrial effluents, volcanic plumes, and cyclonic storm activity. Under the original scheme, each nation would be responsible for constructing its own instrumentation and ground control station.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In 1998, BMDO conducted a Concept Design Review of the RAMOS program and determined that the original two-satellite demonstration program did not provide the United States with sufficient additional missile defense technical benefits to warrant moving forward with the original program plan. BMDO concluded that the political benefit of cooperating with Russia in missile defense could be achieved through other, unspecified cooperative programs. In short, without consulting with their Russian partners, DoD unilaterally backed away from the original agreement and shifted the priority of the program from "cooperation" to "operational benefit" for US space assets. Given that the technical objectives of the program are basic elements of effective missile defense not yet fully solved by MDA, the shift in priorities suggests that DoD changed its position on RAMOS for political, not technical, reasons.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Department of Defense did not, however, abandon the program at that point. Instead, BMDO proposed to restructure it. After examining a broad range of alternatives, the DoD developed two alternative program plans on its own to discuss with the Russian RAMOS team. The first alternative proposed using infrared sensors mounted on either an American or Russian aircraft to measure and simulate mid- and long-wave infrared against atmospheric clutter against the earth's background. The second alternative was simply to provide funding to the Russians to design and test new sensors on their own. Representatives of DoD met with Russian officials in March 1999 to discuss the matter. Although the Russians did not reject those options as additions to the program, they reiterated their support for the initial two-satellite program plan to which, in their view, both Presidents Yeltsin and Clinton had agreed. When Prime Minister Primakov met with Vice President Gore in New York in March 1999, he reiterated Russian support for the two-satellite program.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In July 2000, the Department of Defense proposed a revised plan to the Russians that returned to the two-satellite format of the initial program plan, but contained some important differences. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Jacques Gansler, proposed to the Russians that they be responsible for the design, construction and launch of both satellites and supporting ground station equipment. The US, he offered, would only be responsible for providing the basic sensors, the performance of sensor calibrations, and the integration of the sensors on to Russian satellites. The Russians have not formally accepted Dr. Gansler's proposal for the restructured program, a process that has doubtless been affected by Russian reactions to President Bush's announced intent for the U.S. to withdraw from the Anti-ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty.</span>

Only RAMOS can solve – pathfinder status and key capabilities
Humpherys et al 4 [T. Humpherys, V. Privalsky, Space Dynamics Laboratory, Utah State University; V. Sinelshchikov, V. Abramov, V. Misnik, Federal State Unitary Enterprise; A.T. Stair, I. Schiller, Visidyne, Inc; Nov 9, 2004, “Defense and Environmental Objectives for the Russian American Observational Satellites (RAMOS) Program,” http://www.sdl.usu.edu/downloads/papers/ramos-defense-environmental-objectives.pdf

RAMOS is a unique program in many ways. It has been the only cooperative space-based research program extant between the US Department of Defense and the Russian Ministry of Defense, it has enjoyed support at the highest levels of both governments, and it has brought scientists and engineers of the two countries together for more than a decade of fruitful cooperative research. In addition to its “pathfinder” status, RAMOS has been the only program investigating the usefulness of simultaneous, multi-spectral stereo-optical imaging
in the reduction of potential false alarms inherent in early warning systems—a capability of crucial importance to the US, Russia and the entire international community of nations. Finally, no other program is evaluating the utility of this unique simultaneous stereo-optical/multi-spectral imagery in assessing hazardous environmental phenomena worldwide and predicting their evolution and potential impact on human health and safety.

RAMOS technology is key
Bartschi et al. 98 [Brent, David Burt, Glen Wada, A.T. Stair, J.W. Carpenter, Orr Shepherd, “Russian American Observation Satellites,” [[http://www.sdl.usu.edu/programs/ramos.pdf]], Presented at the 1st Annual International Small Satellite Conference and Exhibition, November 16-20]

ENVIRONMENTAL--- RAMOS will demonstrate the feasibility of using defense-related assets for environmental monitoring. It will demonstrate the value to meteorological forecasters and modelers of real-time, high-resolution data in a stereo-optical or threedimensional presentation. This capability will enable investigators to measure the altitude of cloud tops with a 10-fold improvement in accuracy over current methods. Cloud fragment velocities, freezing point altitudes and other similar measurements will greatly enhance forecasters' ability to predict strength, speed and surface track of severe storm systems, and will minimize the need for costly and dangerous aircraft over-flights. The benefits that can arise from these data--a better understanding of hurricane evolution and wind strength prediction, for instance--are incalculable. A potential payoff is the ability to predict, worldwide, areas of potential hurricane damage with sufficient accuracy and timeliness to enable orderly evacuations and save lives. The ability to measure cloud elevations and velocities will also make possible early warning of potentially dangerous effluent clouds, both man-made (e.g., industrial) or natural (e.g., volcanic). The technology will greatly improve the ability to detect and track oil spills, to monitor environmentally-critical ocean, lake, crop and forest areas for signs of degradation, and to detect, track and map airborne contaminants. Specific, environmentally-directed science objectives of the RAMOS program include the following:
Climatological/Meteorological Data: Three-dimensional processing with a vertical resolution of 100 meters will improve current approaches of inferring cloud heights. Current methods, which use LWIR radiometric data coupled with temperature/altitude soundings yield, at best, accuracy to within 1 or 2 km. Combined with on-board spectro-photometric measurements of cloud-top temperatures (± 1 K), the RAMOS cloud-height measurements may accurately determine the intensities of tropical cyclones without the need for in-situ measurements from aircraft. Furthermore, direct measurements of both heights and horizontal velocities of cloud fragments will provide better information on the atmospheric wind field as a function of altitude; this information can be applied directly to numerical weather prediction. In combination with the on-board polarimetric capability, cloud-height measurements can determine the altitude at which cloud tops become glaciated. A compilation of these data will provide statistical information relevant to global climate modeling.
Parametric Effects: RAMOS will study the effects on space stereo imaging of varying the distance between the sensors in the orbit plane and the angle outside of the orbit plane. It will also study and evaluate the requirements for "real-time” (simultaneous) observations as opposed to stereo data obtained by viewing the scene later in time by the same satellite at a different point in its orbit. This will address the questions of time-varying geophysical phenomena driven by winds, atmospheric waves, etc.
Geophysical Events: The program will demonstrate the value of stereo-optical observation of unexpected ecological phenomena by viewing man-made environmental events, military conflicts, and geophysical events such as hurricanes, tornadoes and volcanoes. Stereooptical observations also provide the opportunity to probe at high resolution the threedimensional structure of the temporally and spatially-variable ozone layer to obtain additional insight into its underlying mechanisms.
Multispectral Measurements: RAMOS will obtain multispectral infrared measurements of various environmentally-sensitive areas such as crops, forests, flood plains, oil spills, etc. to help develop multispectral algorithms for large-area, distributed space-based sensors planned for the future.

Disasters cause extinction
SID-AHMED 05 Mohamed, Al-Ahram Online, Jan 6-12, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]])

The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within living memory. What happened in South Asia is the ecological equivalent of 9/11. Ecological problems like global warming and climatic disturbances in general threaten to make our natural habitat unfit for human life. The extinction of the species has become a very real possibility, whether by our own hand or as a result of natural disasters of a much greater magnitude than the Indian Ocean earthquake and the killer waves it spawned. Human civilisation has developed in the hope that Man will be able to reach welfare and prosperity on earth for everybody. But now things seem to be moving in the opposite direction, exposing planet Earth to the end of its role as a nurturing place for human life. Today, human conflicts have become less of a threat than the confrontation between [Humanity] Man and Nature. At least they are less likely to bring about the end of the human species. The reactions of Nature as a result of its exposure to the onslaughts of human societies have become more important in determining the fate of the human species than any harm it can inflict on itself. Until recently, the threat Nature represented was perceived as likely to arise only in the long run, related for instance to how global warming would affect life on our planet. Such a threat could take decades, even centuries, to reach a critical level. This perception has changed following the devastating earthquake and tsunamis that hit the coastal regions of South Asia and, less violently, of East Africa, on 26 December. This cataclysmic event has underscored the vulnerability of our world before the wrath of Nature and shaken the sanguine belief that the end of the world is a long way away. Gone are the days when we could comfort ourselves with the notion that the extinction of the human race will not occur before a long-term future that will only materialise after millions of years and not affect us directly in any way. We are now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

Solves extinction from disease
Ford et. al 11 (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, [[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]])

The scientific community has a relative consensus that epidemic and pandemic disease risks will be exacerbated by environmental changes that destabilize weather patterns, change distribution of vectors, and increase transport and transmission risk. Predictive modeling may lead to improved understanding and potentially prevent future epidemic and pandemic disease. Many respiratory infections are well known as highly climate dependent or seasonal. Although we are not yet able to predict their incidence with great precision, we may well be able to do this in the future. Meningococcal meningitis (caused by Neisseria meningitidis) in Africa is probably the best known example. In the disease-endemic so-called meningitis belt (an area running across sub-Saharan Africa from Senegal to Ethiopia), this is classically a dry season disease, which ceases with the beginning of the rainy season, likely as a result of changes in host susceptibility (19). Many other infectious diseases show strong seasonality or association with climatic conditions (20). Perhaps one of the most interesting is influenza, which is thought of as a wintertime disease in temperate climates but shows both winter and summer peaks in subtropical and tropical regions (21). Although the reasons for seasonality are often poorly understood, the close dependence of such diseases on climatic conditions suggests that these, too, are likely to be amenable to prediction by modeling and remote sensing (22). When we consider influenza, it is hard not to think about the future risks from pandemic influenza. Public health agencies in the United States and around the world are focusing on influenza preparedness, notably concerning influenza virus A subtype H5N1, which has captured attention because it causes severe disease and death in humans but as yet has demonstrated only very limited and inefficient human-to-human transmission. The severity of the disease raises images of the 1918 influenza epidemic on an unimaginably vast scale if the virus were to adapt to more efficient human-to-human transmission. Can predictive modeling using satellite or other imaging of environmental variables help in prediction of future influenza pandemics? Xiangming Xiao at the University of New Hampshire was funded in 2006 by the National Institutes for Health to lead a multidisciplinary and multi-institutional team to use remote satellite imaging to track avian flu. Xiao et al. have used satellite image–derived vegetation indices to map paddy rice agriculture in southern Asia (23). They believe that a similar approach can be used in conjunction with the more traditional approach of analyzing bird migration patterns and poultry production (24,25) to map potential hot spots of virus transmission (26).

=Round 2 - Neg vs. St. Marks BB - B. Bricker= 
==Aff== 
St. Marks Orbital Depots Aff
Advantages: NASA, Space Access, and leadership
==1nc== 
T- Human
Presidential Order CP
Central Planning K
Ozone DA
Ex Im Politics DA
Case Defense
==Cites== 
===Ex Im Politics DA=== 
Ex-Im reauthorization will pass – Obama’s pushing but it’s a fight
Politico 4-24, ("Hill close to Ex-Im Bank deal," 2012, dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=D44CBBFD-718D-4935-B4D6-AB12FC55A6B7)

<span style="text-decoration: none;"> House leaders showed increased confidence Tuesday of a deal soon on renewing the Export-Import Bank charter</span>, with most attention on a three-year framework raising the exposure cap to between $130 billion and $140 billion.
In recent days <span style="text-decoration: none;">the White House has provided new detail forecasting the bank’s lending needs into 2015. While the administration won’t get everything it wants</span>, House Majority Leader Eric <span style="text-decoration: none;">Cantor (R-Va.) has moved substantially from the much tighter caps he had proposed earlier this spring</span>.
“<span style="text-decoration: none;">My sense is we want to get this done</span>,” Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) told reporters of his own negotiations with Cantor. <span style="text-decoration: none;">When POLITICO asked Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) later if an Ex-Im bill agreement would be reached, his one word answer was “Sure</span>.”
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Boeing Co. and Delta Air Lines are still anxious, caught up in their own corporate brawl</span> over language in the draft bill that could impact the bank’s future financing for passenger aircraft sales overseas<span style="text-decoration: none;">. But an April 19th White House letter has helped clear the air at least regarding how much exposure Ex-Im will need</span> if it is to manage the demands for new financing.
“Frankly, the more we sell, hooray for us, we are exporting goods, the more the cost will be,” Hoyer said. Indeed, the revised White House estimates suggest that through fiscal 2015, the bank’s needs could reach $159 billion—$18 billion more than had been predicted a year ago.
The short term changes can be as important. By the end of fiscal 2012 this September 30, the bank’s exposure could be as high as $117 billion, well above its current $100 billion cap but also above the additional $10 billion stepped-increase proposed by the Senate Banking Committee.
In the talks now, getting some short-term leeway may be as important as the 2014 and 2015 caps. And for this reason, <span style="text-decoration: none;">it’s possible to see a deal shaping around a bill running through fiscal 2014 and raising the cap to between $130 billion – the Senate proposed level—and the revised White House forecast of $143 billion.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Hoyer steered clear of providing any details but indicated he and Cantor are “pretty close” to an agreement, and Republicans also said that their hope is to have legislation in place to be taken up by the House when it returns May 7 from next week’s recess</span>.

PC’s key
James 3-14, policy analyst at the Cato Institute, (Sallie, "Expanding Ex-Im's Mandate Is A Big Mistake," www.cato.org/publications/free-trade-bulletin/expanding-exims-mandate-is-big-mistake
Clearly the <span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama</span> administration <span style="text-decoration: none;">is keen to emphasize and increase the countervailing role of the bank. In February 2012 President Obama used the occasion of a speech at a Boeing plant in Washington State to announce that he would "give American companies a fair shot by matching the unfair export financing that their competitors receive from other countries</span>."5 <span style="text-decoration: none;">A concerted marketing push by the administration will presumably see the handful of countervailing financing recipients joined by many more.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Replacing the SLS costs capital</span>
Gerbis 11 [Nicholas Gerbis, communications director for Decision Center for a Desert City, October 14, “How the Space Launch System Will Work,” [[http://science.howstuffworks.com/space-launch-system2.htm]]]

Someone once described a camel as a horse designed by committee. The Space Launch System is a camel designed by NASA to specifications set down by Congress, with legs from Canoga Park, Calif.; withers from Brigham City, Utah, Huntsville, Ala. and Titusville, Fla.; and a hump and a head from New Orleans.
That adds up to a lot of jobs for a lot of constituencies, but does it make for the best possible spacecraft?
From the beginning, the SLS has been as much a political football as a vehicle to the stars. Ever since the Obama administration announced in February 2010 that the Constellation Program was cancelled and would not be replaced for five years, the clock has been running in a scrimmage between the White House and Capitol Hill. Ultimately, the congressional blitz proved to be too much for the administration, and it punted -- first by agreeing to take the Orion crew capsule out of mothballs, then by proposing an Ares-inspired knockoff to serve as the lift vehicle.
Nor did the pressure end there. Instead of merely approving agency goals and funding, members of Congress went further, directing NASA on what kind of vehicle to design and even which parts and vendors to use. Moreover, their requirements even included contracts and contractors to be retained without a bidding process [source: Simberg, "3 Questions"; Simberg, "NASA's Space"]. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Texas Republican and ranking member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, and Sen. Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat and chairman of the commerce committee's science and space subcommittee, played influential roles in this process and in pressuring NASA to comply with it quickly. NASA Mission Control is located in Houston, Texas, and Florida is home to the agency's launch facilities.

Causes war and turns the case
Khalilzad 11 – United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992 (Zalmay, 2/8, “The Economy and National Security,” 2-8, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]])
We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth. Even though countries such as China, India, and Brazil have profound political, social, demographic, and economic problems, their economies are growing faster than ours, and this could alter the global distribution of power. These trends could in the long term produce a multi-polar world. If U.S. policymakers fail to act and other powers continue to grow, it is not a question of whether but when a new international order will emerge. The closing of the gap between the United States and its rivals could intensify geopolitical competition among major powers, increase incentives for local powers to play major powers against one another, and undercut our will to preclude or respond to international crises because of the higher risk of escalation. The stakes are high. In modern history, the longest period of peace among the great powers has been the era of U.S. leadership. By contrast, multi-polar systems have been unstable, with their competitive dynamics resulting in frequent crises and major wars among the great powers. Failures of multi-polar international systems produced both world wars.American retrenchment could have devastating consequences. Without an American security blanket, regional powers could rearm in an attempt to balance against emerging threats. Under this scenario, there would be a heightened possibility of arms races,miscalculation, or other crises spiraling into all-out conflict. Alternatively, in seeking to accommodate the stronger powers, weaker powers may shift their geopolitical posture away from the United States. Either way, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions. As rival powers rise, Asia in particular is likely to emerge as a zone of great-power competition. Beijing’s economic rise has enabled a dramatic military buildup focused on acquisitions of naval, cruise, and ballistic missiles, long-range stealth aircraft, and anti-satellite capabilities. China’s strategic modernization is aimed, ultimately, at denying the United States access to the seas around China. Even as cooperative economic ties in the region have grown, China’s expansive territorial claims — and provocative statements and actions following crises in Korea and incidents at sea — have roiled its relations with South Korea, Japan, India, and Southeast Asian states. Still, the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression. Given the risks, the United States must focus on restoring its economic and fiscal condition while checking and managing the rise of potential adversarial regional powers such as China. While we face significant challenges, the U.S. economy still accounts for over 20 percent of the world’s GDP. American institutions — particularly those providing enforceable rule of law — set it apart from all the rising powers. Social cohesion underwrites political stability. U.S. demographic trends are healthier than those of any other developed country. A culture of innovation, excellent institutions of higher education, and a vital sector of small and medium-sized enterprises propel the U.S. economy in ways difficult to quantify. Historically, Americans have responded pragmatically, and sometimes through trial and error, to work our way through the kind of crisis that we face today.
=Round 3 - Aff vs. Carrolton DS - A. Parkinson= 
==1AC== 
===Accidents=== 

Advantage 1 is false alarms
Russian early warning systems are failing making false alarms inevitable
Forden et al 2K [Geoffrey Forden, Pavel Podvig and Theodore A. Postol, “False alarm, nuclear danger,” [[http://russianforces.org/podvig/2000/03/false_alarm_nuclear_danger.shtml]]; Geoffrey Forden is an analyst in the National Security Division of the U.S. Congressional Budget Office. He holds a Ph.D. in experimental high-energy physics, a field in which he has done research in the United States and Europe. Pavel Podvig is a researcher at the Center for Arms Control, Energy, and Environmental Studies at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology. He graduated from the general and applied physics department there in 1988. Podvig has written about the politics of missile defenses, the future of Russian strategic forces, and the U.S.-Russian strategic relationship. He is the editor of Russian Strategic Nuclear Weapons (IzdAT, Moscow, 1998). Theodore A. Postol has been professor of science, technology, and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in Cambridge, since 1989. Before that, he worked at Argonne National Laboratory as a research physicist, at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment as an analyst studying the MX missile, and at the Pentagon as the assistant for weapons technology to the chief of naval operations.

Those satellites, known as Defense Support Program (DSP) satellites, can detect the infrared energy radiated from the hot exhaust of a missile's rocket engine launched from anywhere on the earth's surface. DSP satellites reportedly detected all the Iraqi Scud missiles launched during the Persian Gulf War, which also marked the first time the general public became aware of their existence. Though designed to provide an early-warning alert of missile launches on the other side of the earth, their most important function to date has been to assure policymakers that missiles have not, in fact, been launched.
The 1979 incident was not the only false alarm to nearly trigger nuclear war. Shortly after dawn on 25 January 1995, Russian radars detected a rocket launched from an island off the northwest coast of Norway. Because of the limited resolution of the radars, they could determine only that the altitude and speed of the rocket looked like those of a U.S. Trident nuclear missile. Also, although the observed rocket was heading away from Russia, it was on a trajectory that could be used to blind Russian radars and prevent them from detecting an attack from U.S. land-based Minuteman or MX missiles or submarine-based Tridents. Official details of the event have never been released, but most probably, the rocket set off automated warning alarms at the radar sites, which then notified military commanders in Moscow and elsewhere.
What happened next throughout the Russian command structure is not known, except that then-President Boris Yeltsin was directly involved in the assessment of the warning alarms and the decision not to launch a nuclear retaliation against the West.
Some Western analysts worry that this incident represented a possible failure of Russia's command-and-control system. Russian experts, understandably irritated by alarmist statements in the West that suggest Russian incompetence, have countered that this case proved that their system works, even under a grave threat.
Whatever the truth may be, an analysis of the state of Russia's early-warning satellites at that time indicates that the country's leaders had reliable information that no nuclear attack was under way from land-based Minuteman or MX missiles. But they were unable to determine reliably whether they were under attack from the more capable U.S. nuclear Trident forces in the Atlantic and Pacific--which means that the warning system in 1995 was far from adequate. The fact that Russia did not mistakenly launch a counterattack on the United States at that time hardly guarantees that when future warning system accidents occur, they will lead to the same nondisastrous outcome.
Indeed, because of the prolonged effects of Russia's floundering economy, if a similar incident occurred today, Russian leaders would have far less information than they had in 1995. Currently, Russia is totally blind to a Trident attack from the Atlantic and Pacific, and, for all practical purposes, it is equally blind to a Minuteman or MX attack from the continental United States. With the breakup of the Soviet Union, Russia lost an important radar station in Latvia that was designed to warn of nuclear attack from the Atlantic. Plus, there is still an unmonitored corridor of attack from the Pacific. The result is that crucial gaps are evident in Russia's early-warning radar fence [Fig. 1].
What's more, the satellite constellation that in 1995 provided the country's leaders with reassurance that a Minuteman or MX attack was not under way has since suffered from the consequences of both mechanical failures in space and economic failure on the ground. The constellation can perform its early-warning mission only if each satellite is maintained in highly specialized elliptical orbits. Each orbit is fixed relative to the others so that the satellites will pass in sequence high over northern Europe, from which they can each in turn see the space above U.S. missile fields.
Now, however, most of the satellites have failed, or reached the end of their lives, and are drifting out of control. This has resulted in the development of large gaps in coverage during any given 24-hour period. In fact, the U.S. Congressional Budget Office, a federal body that provides Congress with analyses needed to make economic and budget decisions, has estimated that these satellites can work no more than 17 hours of each day, and possibly much less.
As for the newest generation of Russian satellites, designed to warn against submarine missile attack, the system is still inoperable. At present, only one Russian geostationary early-warning satellite, Cosmos 2224, is working, and that was launched in 1992. Given the limited capabilities of these satellites today, and the gaping holes in the ground-based early-warning radar system, it is obvious that the Russians cannot use these systems to reassure themselves that they are not under attack.
These shortfalls in the early-warning system and the faltering political relationship between the United States and Russia increase the chances that an unforeseen set of events will trigger a massive coordinated launch of the latter's nuclear forces. If such an event were to occur, in addition to massive strikes against the United States, it is almost certain that nuclear warheads would fall on other North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies, as well as on other countries that pose a threat to Russia. While various recommendations have been put forward to improve the country's early-warning capabilities, to date little has been done.
Spotting the dangers
Obviously, a deteriorating Russian command-and-control system that cannot distinguish between a benign event and a real attack poses a worldwide threat. Far less obvious is what problems really exist and how they might be solved. Some Russians have openly discussed the issues raised by the potential for accidents in both sides' early-warning systems. But others deny to this day the occurrence of any false alarms--despite first-hand accounts, published in both Russia and the West, of a serious Russian false alarm amid the Cold War tensions of 1983 [see "Colonel Petrov's good judgment"], as well as the post-Cold War incident in 1995.
Fortunately, the physical processes used to detect missiles in flight, the celestial mechanics that govern satellite orbits, and publicly available information released over the years by the U.S. Department of Defense make it possible to construct a fairly complete picture of both sides' early-warning capabilities. The results of such analyses can help in understanding, even without access to classified Russian or U.S. information, what can be done to reduce the danger of nuclear war from accidents that could cause false alerts.
The 1995 incident started harmlessly enough. Shortly before sunrise, NASA, in collaboration with Norwegian scientists, launched a four-stage Black Brant XII rocket to study the Northern Lights from an island off the coast of Norway.
The launch was no rarity. Andoya Island is the site of a sounding rocket launch facility, from which many scientific experiments have been fired. But the Black Brant XII had a different configuration from that of other rockets typically launched from Andoya, one that, to the low-resolution Russian early-warning radars, made it indistinguishable from a Trident missile in powered flight.
The coincidences that led the Black Brant to be mistaken for a Trident are uncanny, and should be taken as a sobering warning that accidents in these early-warning systems can and will happen again. The rocket's first and second stages were discarded at a low altitude, never rising to a height where they could be seen by the radar. The third-stage motor also burned out below the radar horizon, but was then carried over the horizon by its momentum. At that point, it was trailing the Black Brant at a speed and distance similar to those between a Trident and its discarded first stage. As the Black Brant's fourth stage rose higher over the radar horizon, its velocity and altitude resembled those of a Trident during its second-stage powered flight. Add to these circumstances the Black Brant's ejection of its nosecone at an altitude and speed similar to those of a Trident. That event led to yet another radar signature tending to confirm that the unknown rocket was a Trident [Fig. 2]. It is a near certainty that the computers on Russia's early-warning radars were programmed to issue an alarm when these signatures were observed in the radar data.

Incomplete information will force Russia to retaliate
NTRC 5 [The Nuclear Threat Reduction Campaign (NTRC), a joint project of Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and The Justice Project, educates and mobilizes key constituencies on a centrist, bipartisan basis to advance public policy that reduces the threat posed by nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, “U.S.-Russian Ballistic-Missile Early-Warning Cooperation,” [[http://www.veteransforamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/01/22-early-warning-final.pdf]]]

The deficiencies in Russia’s E-W system create dangers for the U.S. ironically because of the more capable U.S. strategic force and the nuclear posture that Russia may believe it must maintain. We have a nuclear force ready for launch in a very few minutes—about 1,300 submarine-based nuclear warheads deployed at sea that could reach targets in Russia within 10 to 15 minutes,5 along with 500 land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles with multiple warheads6 that could reach Russia in about 30 minutes.7 Most of this nuclear force (primarily our submarine-based missiles) would survive a Russian first strike. By contrast, Russia has only about 20 to 200 nuclear weapons that could survive a U.S. attack; and it may consider this an insufficient deterrent. To counter this vulnerability, Russia may adopt a “launch-on-warning” strategy, particularly during a period of international tension, making about 1,900 strategic nuclear warheads ready for launch within minutes of an attack order being given.8
Thus, if Russia were to detect an incoming missile attack—or erroneously conclude that one likely was underway—the Russian president would have, at best, only about 10 minutes in which to try to obtain verification and decide either to order an immediate counterattack or to run the risk that attacking warheads would destroy Russia’s ability to retaliate on a massive scale. While making this decision whether to “use them or lose them,” the Russian leadership would be confounded by the knowledge that its E-W system could be providing false information that an attack was underway or, by virtue of the gaps in its coverage, leave them with no way to verify whether a suspected attack was real.
The above-mentioned RAND study ascribes the resulting dangers for the U.S. to two main reasons:
First, without a clear, accurate picture of what is happening around the globe, Russia may confuse a benign event (such as a space launch) for a nuclear attack, possibly prompting a decision to launch a nuclear strike. Second, without a properly functioning, two-tiered E-W system, Russia will have less time available to decide … whether to launch a retaliatory response.9

Rapid escalation is inevitable – none of their defense assumes C3I vulnerability
Ford 10 [Christopher, Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C., former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, reserve intelligence officer in the U.S. Navy, “Playing for Time on the Edge of the Apocalypse: Maximizing Decision Time for Nuclear Leaders,” http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Decision%20Time%20Final%20for%20Print.pdf]

Yet this is not the end of the story, for sophisticated advocates of de-alerting measures do not necessarily contend that LOW is actually official policy. Rather, scholars such as Blair suggest that no matter what official policy is, U.S. and Russian decision-makers face formidable incentives to launch on warning anyway – as long as that option is technically available – because force and command-system vulnerabilities leave them with no alternative to LOW if they are to inflict the desired level of retaliatory damage on the enemy. Because both sides effectively lack a genuine “ride-out” option, the argument goes, they would be left, in practice, with little choice but to adopt a de facto LOW policy, which is indeed just as dangerously destabilizing and prone to accident as the more hawkish Wohlstetters and Kahns always believed. (Indeed, it is perhaps worse, insofar as the critics allege that the nuclear superpowers’ command-and-control systems are very likely at some point to give rise to an uncaught false alarm or some other accident likely to trip their de facto LOW postures into catastrophic motion.) Through this prism, de-alerting is said to become necessary as a means to prevent vulnerabilities from giving rise to launch-on-warning decisions by making it technically impossible to launch during the very brief span of time between detection of what looks like an enemy attack and its presumed time of impact.
Let us examine this argument in more detail, for it lies at the heart of the de-alerting debate – and perhaps our way out of it. As indicated, the most sophisticated and articulate critiques of current nuclear force postures, in which at least some forces are set up for extremely rapid launch, are Bruce Blair and Scott Sagan, who offer different but complimentary arguments. Blair’s account revolves around the incentives for a launch-on-warning posture he says are created by the vulnerability not just (or even principally) of nuclear forces themselves (e.g., missile silos) but of the command, control, communications, and intelligence (C3I) architectures upon which their employment in actual nuclear warfighting depends. In his view, in effect, both nuclear superpowers’ longstanding investments in survivable second-strike nuclear weapons to some extent missed the point – or at least proved radically incomplete – insofar as they failed to provide Washington and Moscow with a genuine ability to mount and manage a retaliatory strike because national C3I systems would be too damaged by a massive nuclear exchange to handle the demands of second-strike battle management.32 Both countries are thus said to have faced tremendous incentives for launch-on-warning – in practice, at least, whether or not this was official policy – because it was presumably clear to their nuclear planners that C3I degradation and outright force attrition (e.g., high losses of silo-based ballistic missiles and non-alerted bomber forces) from an enemy attack would prevent its recipient from mounting the kind of retaliatory strike it deemed necessary.33

The reset doesn’t solve – lingering tensions and inevitable crises mean conflict is still possible
Arbatov and Dvorkin 6 [Alexei Arbatov, Scholar-in-Residence and Program Co-chair of Nuclear Nonproliferation at the Carnegie Moscow Center and head of the Center for International Security at the Institute for International Economy and International Relationships of the Russian Academy of Sciences; Vladimir Dvorkin, senior researcher at the Center for International Security at the Institute for World Economy and International Relations of the Russian Academy of Sciences and former director of the Fourth Central Research Institute in Moscow, “Beyond Nuclear Deterrence: Transforming the U.S.–Russian Equation,” http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf]

Even when dramatic changes occur in the political relations between nuclear states that make them stop seeing each other as adversaries, as with Russia and the United States following the Cold War, these states’ armed forces, and foremost their nuclear forces, retain the powerful momentum of confrontation and competition. These forces cannot adjust to new cooperative political relations on their own without political and technical efforts that are consistent, well designed, and bilateral.
Furthermore, newly emerging adversaries, contingencies, and challenges brought about by nuclear proliferation and various conflicts of national interests may destabilize strategic relations between the former enemies. The result can be increased tensions in their strategic policies, with highly detrimental political, military, and legal arms control consequences.
For example, the 2002 U.S. decision to test and deploy a strategic ballistic missile defense (BMD) system, allegedly designed to defend the United States from the new countries (that is, “rogue states”) possessing ballistic missiles, and Washington’s withdrawal from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty, made Russia place increased reliance on its offensive strategic nuclear force. Thus, Moscow extended the service lives of those of its heavy intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) equipped with multiple independently targeted reentry vehicles (MIRVs) and even purchased a few dozen MIRV missiles from Ukraine’s stockpile. Also, as reported by President Vladimir Putin, Russia has accelerated development of a new strategic offensive weapon system fitted with a gliding and maneuvering reentry vehicle designed to penetrate “any BMD system.” In keeping with post-Cold War sensitivities no specific opponent has been mentioned, but this new system can only be assumed to be intended to target the United States.

The impact is extinction
Helfand and Pastore ‘9 [John, Ira – Physicians for Social Responsibility. ”US-Russia Nuclear War is Still a Threat” [[http://www.projo.com/|www.projo.com]], 3/31/9 //GBS-JV]

Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not. There remain in the world more than 20,000 nuclear weapons. Alarmingly, more than 2,000 of these weapons in the U.S. and Russian arsenals remain on ready-alert status, commonly known as hair-trigger alert. They can be fired within five minutes and reach targets in the other country 30 minutes later.
Just one of these weapons can destroy a city. A war involving a substantial number would cause devastation on a scale unprecedented in human history. A study conducted by Physicians for Social Responsibility in 2002 showed that if only 500 of the Russian weapons on high alert exploded over our cities, 100 million Americans would die in the first 30 minutes.
An attack of this magnitude also would destroy the entire economic, communications and transportation infrastructure on which we all depend. Those who survived the initial attack would inhabit a nightmare landscape with huge swaths of the country blanketed with radioactive fallout and epidemic diseases rampant. They would have no food, no fuel, no electricity, no medicine, and certainly no organized health care. In the following months it is likely the vast majority of the U.S. population would die.
Recent studies by the eminent climatologists Toon and Robock have shown that such a war would have a huge and immediate impact on climate world wide. If all of the warheads in the U.S. and Russian strategic arsenals were drawn into the conflict, the firestorms they caused would loft 180 million tons of soot and debris into the upper atmosphere — blotting out the sun. Temperatures across the globe would fall an average of 18 degrees Fahrenheit to levels not seen on earth since the depth of the last ice age, 18,000 years ago. Agriculture would stop, eco-systems would collapse, and many species, including perhaps our own, would become extinct.
===Cooperation=== 


Advantage 2 is space cooperation – it’s failing now
RADYUHIN 11 [Vladimir, Moscow correspondent of The Hindu, July 29, 2011, “Now begins the era of the Soyuz,” http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/lead/article2306053.ece]

The pooling of resources could help Russia and the U.S. develop a new generation of space vehicles faster and at a lesser cost. Experts say interplanetary missions would be too costly and technologically challenging for any nation. Two years ago, Russia and the U.S. set up a working group on space within a joint presidential commission for bilateral cooperation. However, the two countries are still largely going their separate ways. They are building two different space shuttle systems — a Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle in the U.S. and a Prospective Piloted Transport System in Russia — and are drawing up separate programmes for the exploration of the Moon and the Mars.
Prospects for cooperation improved after President Barack Obama last year signed a new National Space Policy that placed emphasis on international cooperation, openness and transparency in space in contrast to President George W. Bush's strategy of global supremacy. However, a strong military space component in the U.S. global missile shield plan, which Russia sees as a threat to its security, is likely to hamper cooperation in the development of new space hardware.

Cooperation is key to relations and prevents a space arms race
Savelyev 04, Alexander Head of Sector Geopolitics of Strategic Analysis IMEMO Vice-President of the Institute of National Security and Strategic Studies (INBSI), “ Prospects for US-Russian Cooperation in Ballistic Missile Defense and Outer Space Activities” Journal of Slavic Military Studies 17: 99–109, 2004, [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13518040490440674]] NEH)

Space, for many very understandable reasons, is the most realistic arena in which Russia and the US could try to overcome the historical obstacles in the path of promoting world security and strategic stability through cooperation in practically all current and prospective areas. Joint responsibility on the part of Russia and the US in this field could help solve many problems that the two countries face in the new century. Cooperation between Russia and the US can play the central role in solving the task of global monitoring of outer space using national information assets, including early-warning satellites and ground-based ABM systems. Data exchange on space objects, the environment and other matters, can also contribute to strategic stability and international security. Cooperation in the field of space control could help to work out a legal basis for international inspections of all space systems to be launched into orbit, as well as for international data exchange on hostile activities against these systems and their elements. However, in order to move toward broad and successful US-Russian cooperation (to which, in principle, there are no serious alternatives) that is both stable and forward-looking, not only must the parties choose the optimal nature of their behavior, they must also create a new model of inter-governmental links. The basis of such a model must be the agreed-upon joint responsibility of the two states for global peace and stability, and for the character, ways and the consequences of the development of international space activities. Regarding US-Russian cooperation in the ABM sphere, it is too early to speak of some large-scale program in this field. But that conclusion does not exclude the possibility of stable movement toward the development of a new international security system, with the participation not only of the two ‘great space states’, but also of other interested parties that are ready to share the responsibility for creating a new world order. Such cooperation would raise the general level of security relations and could become a decisive limiting factor against an arms race in outer space. It would also stimulate the process of developing a positive strategy for space exploration.

That causes global WMD conflict
<span style="color: #000000;">Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, 'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

It’s reverse causal – failure to cooperate undermines all other cooperation
Logsdon and Millar 01 – (February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University, [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf]] DH)

Yet, to one participant, "If nothing else, good relations in the area of space policy help provide us with a cushion when they are failing in other areas. . . . Moscow’s military as well as its space program are in very dire straits. Both would seem to be close to cardiac arrest. Having said that, I think our interactions with the Russians in both of these areas are critical to our future bilateral relationship. It would be easy to dismiss the Russians as serious players given their internal situation- an attitude often heard around Washington. To a large degree, we have to carry the ball for them. . . . So why should we continue to pick up the tab? Why should the American taxpayer continue to subsidize the Russian space program - or our military to military contacts? It seems to me that there are two answers to this question. First, when it comes to the space program we are dealing with a very high visibility program. If we ignore the Russian space program, we run the risk of wounding their pride in a very serious way. They don?t need to be told that they are down and out. They know it better than we do. My experience with Russians tells me that they are experts when it comes to knowing the extent of their technological inferiority vis-a-vis the West - or put differently, just how far they are behind us. But by keeping them involved in the space program we are at least giving them a psychological fig leaf."

The reset with Russia has stalled – renewed cooperation is necessary to prevent escalating tensions and relations collapse
Allison 10-31, Graham, <span style="text-decoration: none;">director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School and a former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, </span>Robert D. Blackwill is the Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, General Charles G. Boyd, U.S. Air Force (Ret.), is the Starr Distinguished National Security Fellow at the Center for the National Interest, Richard Burt serves as managing director at McLarty Associates, where he has led the firm’s work in Europe and Eurasia since 2007, Ambassador James F. Collins was appointed the director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in January of 2007, John Deutch is an Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. Richard A. Falkenrath is a Principal with The Chertoff Group, Thomas Graham is a managing director at Kissinger Associates, Inc., where he focuses on Russian and Eurasian affairs, Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and Associate Professor of International Relations at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, Mr. Maurice R. Greenberg is Chairman and CEO of C. V. Starr and Co., Inc, Dr. Fiona Hill is director of the Center on the United States and Europe, and senior fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at The Brookings Institution, General James Jones, USMC (Ret) was appointed as the 22nd National Security Advisor to the President of the United States on January 20, 2009, Kenneth I. Juster is a partner and managing director at the global private equity firm Warburg Pincus, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad is a counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, General Richard B. Myers retired as the 15th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 2005, Sam Nunn is Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a charitable organization working to reduce the global threats from nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, Paul Saunders is Executive Director of the Center for the National Interest and Associate Publisher of The National Interest, Dimitri Simes is President and CEO of the Center for the National Interest and Publisher of its foreign policy magazine, The National Interest, Ashley J. Tellis is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues, J. Robinson West is Chairman of the Board and CEO of PFC Energy as well as Chairman of the Board of The United States Institute of Peace, Dov S. Zakheim is Vice Chairman of the Center for The National Interest. He is also Senior Advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and Senior Fellow at CNA, Philip Zelikow is a professor of history at the University of Virginia, where he is also a dean leading the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. [“Russia and U.S. National Interests Why Should Americans Care?” October, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs] HURWITZJust as the United States should expect Russia to adjust many of its policies to achieve a sustainable cooperative relationship, Washington should recognize that Moscow is unlikely to support U.S. policy goals if the U.S.-Russian relationship significantly deteriorates. As a result, the failure to establish an ongoing working relationship with Russia would be quite costly for the United States. As a practical matter, even a stalled relationship could be problematic. The United States and Russia are both motivated to improve relations largely on the basis of hopes for what a stronger relationship could produce. If the prospects for realizing those hopes become too remote, it is uncertain whether what has been accomplished so far is sufficient to prevent our substantial remaining differences from tearing the U.S.-Russian relationship apart. U.S. officials must carefully weigh not only the American national interests in working more closely with Russia, but also the costs and benefits of failing to do so, keeping in mind Moscow’s capacity to act as a spoiler in a number of areas and on a number of issues that are of vital national interest to Washington. In our considered judgment, the choice is clear: the United States should pursue a sustainable cooperative relationship with Russia to advance vital American national interests, but do so without illusions regarding either Moscow’s sometimes neo-imperial ambitions, or the pace of democratic change in Russia.

Russia’s key to make international cooperation effective
Rojansky and Collins 10 (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409]],)

A year and a half after Barack Obama hit the "reset" button with Russia, the reconciliation is still fragile, incomplete, and politically divisive. Sure, Russia is no easy ally for the United States. Authoritarian yet insecure, economically mighty yet technologically backward, the country has proven a challenge for U.S. presidents since the end of the Cold War. Recent news hasn't helped: The arrest in July of a former deputy prime minister and leader of the Solidarity opposition movement, Boris Nemtsov, provoked some of the harshest criticism of Russia yet from the Obama administration. Then last Wednesday, Russia announced that it had moved anti-aircraft missiles into Abkhazia, the region that broke off from Georgia during the August 2008 war. The announcement was hardly welcome news for the United States, which has tried to defuse tensions there for the last 24 months. Yet however challenging this partnership may be, Washington can't afford not to work with Moscow. Ronald Reagan popularized the phrase, "Trust, but verify" -- a good guiding principle for Cold War arms negotiators, and still apt for today. Engagement is the only way forward. Here are 10 reasons why:
1. Russia's nukes are still an existential threat. Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Russia has thousands of nuclear weapons in stockpile and hundreds still on hair-trigger alert aimed at U.S. cities. This threat will not go away on its own; cutting down the arsenal will require direct, bilateral arms control talks between Russia and the United States. New START, the strategic nuclear weapons treaty now up for debate in the Senate, is the latest in a long line of bilateral arms control agreements between the countries dating back to the height of the Cold War. To this day, it remains the only mechanism granting U.S. inspectors access to secret Russian nuclear sites. The original START agreement was essential for reining in the runaway Cold War nuclear buildup, and New START promises to cut deployed strategic arsenals by a further 30 percent from a current limit of 2,200 to 1,550 on each side. Even more, President Obama and his Russian counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, have agreed to a long-term goal of eliminating nuclear weapons entirely. But they can only do that by working together.
2. Russia is a swing vote on the international stage. As one of the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, Moscow holds veto power over any resolution that the body might seek to pass -- including recent efforts to levy tougher sanctions on Iran or, in 2009, against North Korea following that country's second nuclear test. Russian support for such resolutions can also help persuade China and others not to block them. The post-reset relationship between Moscow and Washington works like a force multiplier for U.S. diplomacy. Russia plays an equally crucial role in the G-8 and G-20 economic groups, helping to formulate a coordinated approach in response to economic threats. In 2008, for example, Russia supported a G-20 resolution promising to refrain from protectionism and avoid new barriers to investment or trade.

That solves nuclear war and global instability
Fareed Zakaria, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/08, http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249

The "Global Trends" report identifies several worrying aspects of the new international order—competition for resources like oil, food, commodities and water; climate change; continued terrorist threats; and demographic shifts. But the most significant point it makes is that these changes are taking place at every level and at great speed in the global system. Nations with differing political and economic systems are flourishing. Subnational groups, with varied and contradictory agendas, are on the rise. Technology is increasing the pace of change. Such ferment is usually a recipe for instability. Sudden shifts can trigger sudden actions—terrorist attacks, secessionist outbreaks, nuclear brinksmanship.
The likelihood of instability might increase because of the economic crisis. Despite some booms and busts—as well as 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq—the world has been living through an economic golden age. Global growth has been stronger for the past five years than in any comparable period for almost five decades. Average per capita income has risen faster than in any such period in recorded history. But that era is over. The next five years are likely to be marked by slow growth, perhaps even stagnation and retreat, in certain important areas. What will be the political effects of this slowdown? Historically, economic turmoil has been accompanied by social unrest, nationalism and protectionism. We might avoid these dangers, but it is worth being acutely aware of them.
At the broadest level, the objective of the United States should be to stabilize the current global order and to create mechanisms through which change—the rise of new powers, economic turmoil, the challenge of subnational groups like Al Qaeda—can be accommodated without overturning the international order. Why? The world as it is organized today powerfully serves America's interests and ideals. The greater the openness of the global system, the better the prospects for trade, commerce, contact, pluralism and liberty.
Any strategy that is likely to succeed in today's world will be one that has the active support and participation of many countries. Consider the financial crisis, which several Western governments initially tried to handle on their own. They seemed to forget about globalization—and nothing is more globalized than capital. Belatedly recognizing this, leaders held the G20 meeting in Washington. This was a good first step (though just a first step). Without a coordinated approach, efforts to patch up the system will fail.
The same applies not just to "soft" problems of the future—pandemics, climate change—but to current security challenges as well. The problem of multilateralism in Afghanistan—a place where everyone claims to be united in the struggle—is a sad test case for the future. Thirty-seven nations, operating with the blessing of the United Nations and attacking an organization that has brutally killed civilians in dozens of countries, are still unable to succeed. Why? There are many reasons, but it does not help that few countries involved—from our European allies to Pakistan—are genuinely willing to put aside their narrow parochial interests for a broader common one. Terrorism in South Asia generally requires effective multinational cooperation. Business as usual will produce terrorism that will become usual.
National rivalries, some will say, are in the nature of international politics. But that's no longer good enough. Without better and more sustained cooperation, it is difficult to see how we will solve most of the major problems of the 21st century. The real crisis we face is not one of capitalism or American decline, but of globalization itself. As the problems spill over borders, the demand for common action has gone up. But the institutions and mechanisms to make it happen are in decline. The United Nations, NATO and the European Union are all functioning less effectively than they should be. I hold no brief for any specific institution. The United Nations, especially the Security Council, is flawed and dysfunctional. But we need some institutions for global problem-solving, some mechanisms to coordinate policy. Unless we can find ways to achieve this, we should expect more crises and less success at solving them.
In a world characterized by change, more and more countries—especially great powers like Russia and China and India—will begin to chart their own course. That in turn will produce greater instability. America cannot forever protect every sea lane, broker every deal and fight every terrorist group. Without some mechanisms to solve common problems, the world as we have come to know it, with an open economy and all the social and political benefits of this openness, will flounder and perhaps reverse.

Independently, Russian cooperation salvages climate talks and prevents rapid warming
Charap et al 9 [Samuel Charap, Fellow in National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Laura Conley, Special Assistant for National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Peter Juul, Research Associate at the Center for American Progress; Andrew Light, Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress specializing in climate, energy, and science policy; Julian L. Wong, Senior Policy Analyst with the Energy Opportunity team at the Center for American Progress, July 2009, “After the “Reset”: A strategy and new agenda for U.S. Russia policy”]

Enhancing cooperation on energy efficiency and climate change should be a major plank of U.S. Russia policy. Russia is a significant contributor to global warming—if the European Union is disaggregated, then it is the third largest emitter behind the United States and China and ahead of India—and will therefore play a key role in discussions on the post-Kyoto climate agreement. Russia is also the third largest consumer of energy and one of world’s most energy-intensive economies.
Making Russia a partner on these issues can contribute to the Obama administration’s climate-change agenda and enhance the energy security of our European allies by eventually making more Russian natural gas available for export.
Cooperation on Copenhagen
The United States should directly engage Russia on reaching a new international climate change agreement. An extension or successor to the Kyoto treaty will be negotiated at the U.N. climate talks in Copenhagen at the end of this year. The buildup to that meeting is bringing into focus the need for broad-based involvement from all countries— especially the developed countries and major emerging economies in the developing world—to create a consensus on global climate change action. There is insufficient attention being paid to the role that Russia will play in a new agreement given its status as a major contributor to the problem of global warming and the fact that it is a signatory of the Kyoto Protocol.
The likely structure of the Copenhagen treaty makes Russia one of the unacknowledged keys to success. The Kyoto agreement could not have been enacted unless at least 55 countries representing at least 55 percent of global carbon emissions signed and ratified it. The signatories at the time did not meet the latter criterion, and it would therefore not have gone into effect if then-President Putin had not signed the treaty in November 2004. We can expect a similar proviso in the post-Kyoto treaty, and a Russian signature will likely again be critical.
The Russians are likely to be opposed to stronger caps on emissions and domestic mitigation mechanisms in a new treaty, since those in the Kyoto Protocol will not require them to make emissions cuts until around 2020.29 Yet without more stringent caps the goal of cutting global emissions in half by 2050—which is necessary to avoid the worst consequences of climate change—will be significantly harder to achieve.
We therefore need to bring Russia on board in order to avoid a deadlock in international climate negotiations. The administration should work with the Russians to demonstrate that emissions caps further economic modernization—one of the Kremlin’s oft-repeated goals—and sustain growth and thus are in their long-term economic interest. Immediate bilateral engagement is key to making Russia a partner in addressing climate change. It is not in the U.S. interest for Russia to be a reluctant participant or a spoiler. We must listen and not lecture, since a finger-wagging approach will only backfire in the Russian context.

Extinction
Costello 11, Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ
Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority. The United Nations Convention on Climate Change was set up in 1992 to ensure that nations worked together to minimize the adverse effects, but McMichael and Neira noted that, in preparation for the Copenhagen conference in December 2009, only four of 47 nations mentioned human health as a consideration [1]. With business as usual, global warming caused by rising greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will threaten mass populations through increased transmission of some infections, heat stress, food and water insecurity, increased deaths from more frequent and extreme climate events, threats to shelter and security, and through population migration [2]. On the one hand it is necessary in the media to counter climate change sceptics and denialists, but on the other it is also important not to allow climate catastrophists, who tell us it is all too late, to deflect us from pragmatic and positive action. Catastrophic scenarios are possible in the longer term, and effective action will be formidably difficult, but evidence suggests that we do have the tools, the time and the resources to bring about the changes needed for climate stability. 2. Climate change evidence and denial Given the current body of evidence, it is surprising that global warming and its causal relationship with atmospheric GHG pollution is disputed any more than the relationship between acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, or lung cancer and cigarette smoking. The basic principles that determine the Earth’s temperature are, of course, relatively simple. Some of the short-wave solar radiation that strikes the Earth is reflected back into space and some is absorbed by the land and emitted as long-wave radiation (heat). Some of the long-wave radiation is trapped in the atmosphere by ‘greenhouse gases’, which include water vapour, carbon dioxide and methane. Without GHGs the Earth would be on average 33◦C colder. Over the last 150 years, since the Industrial Revolution, humans have been adding more carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere. The result is that the Earth’s atmosphere, ocean and land are indeed warming—due to increased atmospheric ‘greenhouse gas’ concentrations [3]. Gleick et al. [4], from the US National Academy of Sciences, wrote a letter to Science stating ‘There is compelling, comprehensive, and consistent objective evidence that humans are changing the climate in ways that threaten our societies and the ecosystems on which we depend’. The most recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) [5], amounting to nearly 3000 pages of detailed review and analysis of published research, also declares that the scientific uncertainties of global warming are essentially resolved. This report states that there is clear evidence for a 0.75◦C rise in global temperatures and 22 cm rise in sea level during the twentieth century. The IPCC synthesis also predicts that global temperatures could rise further by between 1.1◦C and 6.4◦C by 2100, and sea level could rise by between 28 and 79 cm, or more if the melting of Greenland and Antarctica accelerates. In addition, weather patterns will become less predictable and the occurrence of extreme climate events, such as storms, floods, heat waves and droughts, will increase. There is also strong evidence for ocean acidification driven by more carbon dioxide dissolving in the oceans [6]. Given the current failure of international negotiations to address carbon emission reductions, and that atmospheric warming lags behind rises in CO2 concentration, there is concern that global surface temperature will rise above the supposedly ‘safe limit’ of 2◦C within this century. Each doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration alone is expected to produce 1.9–4.5◦C of warming at equilibrium [7]. Of course, climate modelling is an extremely complex process, and uncertainty with projections relating to future emissions trajectories means that the time scale and magnitude of future climate change cannot be predicted with certainty [8]. These uncertainties are magnified when future climate predictions are used to estimate potential impacts. For example, the environmental impacts of climate change are also uncertain, but could underestimate such impacts because they detrimentally interact with habitat loss, pollution and loss of biodiversity due to other causes. There is also the additional problem that switching from biome to biome may not be directly reversible. For example, rainforest recycles a huge amount of water so it can survive a significant amount of aridification before it burns and is replaced by savannah. But the region then has to get much wetter before rainforest can return, as there is greatly reduced water cycling in savannah [9]. In the policy arena, further uncertainty surrounds the desire for international agreements on emission cuts, and the possible routes to such agreement and implementation. The feasible speed of technological innovation in carbon capture and provision of renewable/low-carbon energy resources is also uncertain. Denying the causes or the current weight of evidence for anthropogenic climate change is irrational, just as the existence of ‘uncertainties’ should not be used to deny the need for proportionate action, when such uncertainties could underestimate the risks and impact of climate change. There is no reason for inaction and there are many ways we can use our current knowledge of climate change to improve health provision for current and future generations. 3. Catastrophism At the other end of the scale are doom-mongers who predict catastrophic population collapse and the end of civilization. In the early nineteenth century, the French palaeontologist Georges Cuvier first addressed catastrophism and explained patterns of extinction observed in the fossil record through catastrophic natural events [10]. We know now of five major extinctions: the Ordovician–Silurian extinction (439 million years ago), the Late Devonian extinction (about 364 million years ago), the Permian–Triassic extinction (about 251 million years ago), the End Triassic extinction (roughly 199 million to 214 million years ago) and the Cretaceous– Tertiary extinction (about 65 million years ago). These mass extinctions were caused by a combination of plate tectonics, supervolcanism and asteroid impacts. The understanding of the mass extinctions led Gould & Eldredge [11] to update Darwin’s theory of evolution with their own theory of punctuated equilibrium. Many scientists have suggested that the current human-induced extinction rates could be as fast as those during these mass extinctions [12,13]. For example, one study predicted that 58 per cent of species may be committed to extinction by 2050 due to climate change alone [14], though this paper has been criticized [15,16]. Some people have even suggested that human extinction may not be a remote risk [17–19]. Sherwood & Huber [7] point to continued heating effects that could make the world largely uninhabitable by humans and mammals within 300 years. Peak heat stress, quantified by the wet-bulb temperature (used because it reflects both the ambient temperature and relative humidity of the site), is surprisingly similar across diverse climates and never exceeds 31◦C. They suggest that if it rose to 35◦C, which never happens now but would at a warming of 7◦C, hyperthermia in humans and other mammals would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible, therefore making many environments uninhabitable.
===Plan=== 

Thus the plan: the United States federal government should carry out its portion of the Russian American Observation Satellite project, as defined in the original project agreement. We’ll clarify.
===Solvency=== 

Contention 3 is solvency
In 2004 the United States unilaterally withdrew from the RAMOS project despite Russian interest
Samson 7 [Victoria, director of Washington Operations for the Secure World Foundation, “Prospects for Russian-American Missile Defense Cooperation: Lessons from RAMOS and JDEC,” Contemporary Security Policy, Volume 28 Issue 3]

When the Missile defense Agency ended RAMOS, it did it entirely. SDL was alerted when the budget justification documents released in February 2004 stated that the agency was going to end the program as a result of Russia’s "lack of commitment," according to Tom Humpherys, RAMOS manager at SDL.48 This again harkens back to the American perspective of the matter: take the way we want this program to be and accept it. The Russians, given the changes RAMOS had gone through in the course of its lifespan, were dubious about it but willing to give it another chance. When the United States announced that it was cutting the program, Russia was still interested in seeing how the program fared. The United States made the decision for both countries to cut it. In any case, SDL was then in the midst of a two-plus year-long critical design review awarded in December 2003 and worth $50 million.49 Said a surprised Michael Pavich, director of SDL, “We were made aware in the spring that 2005 funding for the RAMOS program would be eliminated. We were not expecting Congress to rescind already obligated 2004 funds, which resulted in the immediate contract termination notice from MDA.”50 This notice came in July 2004 and mandated that the close-out be finished by 15 September of that year.51 RAMOS was not going to come back. Instead, the United States decided it would focus more on less sweeping, yet unstated goals in cooperating with Russia on missile defense. Said Kadish at the time, “We want some small wins, if you will…I am very hopeful that we'll be able to get moving in this area."52

Reviving the program creates a mechanism for shared early warning and prevents miscalc
Ford 8 [Christopher, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation “Dilemmas of Nuclear Force ‘De-Alerting,’” [[http://www.politik.uni-kiel.de/Professuren/dokumente/krause/WS1011/GlobalZero/Sitzung4/Sitzung4_Ford_DilemmasDe-Alerting.pdf]]]

The idea of improved mutual transparency as a way to reduce accident risks – and to help manage the escalatory potential of any problems that do occur – is thus well established. The two powers have also explored additional methods to increase their reciprocal confidence levels and provide a means by which to make false alarms less likely. The United States and Russia for a time pursued the development of a joint reconnaissance satellite program, for instance, the purpose of which was to track potential ballistic missile launches and feed data directly to both governments in order to help prevent errors and misunderstandings. This Russian-American Observation Satellite (RAMOS) project originated in discussions between the first President Bush and Russian President Boris Yeltsin, and led to an agreement between the two governments in 1997 to create two satellites for the provision of shared warning data on ballistic missile attacks.
The RAMOS program had collapsed by 2004 – when the U.S. Department of Defense declined to request further funding for Fiscal Year 200586 – but its failure seems to have been the result principally of such things as cost overruns, friction between counterpart organizations, and a failure by the two governments to prioritize the effort.87 The demise of the satellite project does not appear to have about on account of any perception of fundamental strategic unwisdom or technical unfeasibility. If a firm commitment were made further to reduce accident risks, there would seem no reason, in principle, why something along such lines could not actually be implemented in the future.

Ramos tech allows Russia to repair its early warning
Forden 1 [Geoffrey, senior research fellow with the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Reducing a Common Danger: Improving Russia’s Early-Warning System,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa399.pdf]

U.S. assistance to Russia’s future earlywarning system should focus on two aspects. First, we should continue our joint research effort with Russia—known as the RussianAmerican Observation Satellites project. RAMOS has had a long and stormy history. The program started out in 1992 as an effort to engage Russia in missile defense research— a goal to which it continues to contribute. But some of the research also has significant implications for reducing the costs of Russia’s early-warning system.
One goal of RAMOS is to test a new way of filtering out reflected sunlight. If that line of inquiry is fruitful, as many scientists believe it will be, Russia and the United States will be able to deploy satellites that are no longer sensitive to reflected light, so the Russians will no longer need early-warning satellites in highly elliptical orbits. Instead, a single satellite in geostationary orbit over the Atlantic would give them all the ability that 10 do today. Relying on three such satellites would result in global coverage, considerable cost savings, and presumably allow Russia to better maintain its own satellites.
About $340 million would be needed to complete the RAMOS project. However, the United States gets considerably more than just the vital improvement in Russia’s earlywarning system. The research being done by RAMOS could directly contribute to improvements in the troubled Space-Based Infrared System—a low-satellite program that is a component of the U.S. national missile defense system. Furthermore, Russia has agreed to launch some tactical missiles for RAMOS satellites to observe; those observations should provide valuable data that the United States can use for its theater missile defenses.
After several years of tying U.S. assistance on RAMOS to Russian concessions on the ABM treaty, the Clinton administration wisely decided to remove that requirement. Unfortunately, the administration viewed the project as little more than foreign aid. RAMOS can contribute significantly to alleviating the common danger only if its scientific results are fully exploited. But scientific exploitation funds for the RAMOS program have been cut drastically. The funding is less than a sixth of what a previous space-based sensor research program spent on sciencerelated activities. For instance, millions were spent on collecting data during a preliminary RAMOS aircraft experiment, but no money has been allocated for analyzing those data. If the trend continues, the United States will have squandered hundreds of millions of dollars for RAMOS and an excellent chance to improve its own long-term security.

RAMOS overcomes mistrust and spills over to further space cooperation
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

In May 2001, BMDO officials briefed congressional staffers that a primary policy objective underlying the RAMOS program was to "develop with Russia, mutually beneficial space technologies for defense and civilian applications." BMDO officials further stated their intent that RAMOS would "increase trust between the U.S. and Russia", and would "establish groundwork for future cooperative efforts with the Russian Federation." Early successful scientific joint experiments in space-based observations suggested that such objectives were realistic. During the early phase of the program, the U.S. and Russia conducted the first joint space surveillance experiment in which observation data were exchanged between the two participants. Later, Russians flew an imaging radiometer on a U.S. satellite. The history of the program since 1998, however, belies the goal of cooperation. Mistrust has become rife on both sides and prospects for further cooperation, even during the current post-September 11th period of cooperation, are growing dim.
One important factor underlying the growing mistrust between US and Russian program officials lies in the instability which characterizes the weapons acquisition process. For decades, DoD officials have decried the "instability" which plagues the development and purchase of major weapon systems. Program plans and schedules are constantly revised; funding levels are continually adjusted both within DoD and by the Congress; and program schedules are frequently delayed to reflect those changes. Often, political interests in the Congress serve as the source of instability. RAMOS has a history similar to many other DoD programs in those respects. The important factor distinguishing RAMOS from other defense programs, however, is that RAMOS was conceived as an international "partnership" between former antagonists undertaken in large part to build trust between them.
Since its inception, the US RAMOS program and policy administrators have repeatedly directed significant changes to RAMOS plans, funds, and schedules with little input from their Russian counterparts. As a result, Russian officials and scientists increasingly question the validity of the "partnership" despite their government's repeated official statements supporting the RAMOS program. A brief summary of changes to program plans and objectives illustrates why.

Russia supports the original agreement – any CP that revises the program doesn’t solve
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The original RAMOS concept called for each country to develop its own observation satellite, both of which would be launched aboard Russian rockets into low earth orbit. The satellites, using short-, mid-, and long-wave infrared sensors, would observe and analyze various military and civilian scientific test objectives, including the firing of short-range test missiles such as SCUD missiles. Technological objectives included whether the polarization of solar glint could be used to mitigate short-wave infrared clutter for use by early warning satellites; whether missile emissions could be observed effectively against the earth's own background radiation; and whether infrared tracking could adequately observe a missile's flight pattern from below to above the horizon. The initial RAMOS plan also called for tests to observe and measure industrial effluents, volcanic plumes, and cyclonic storm activity. Under the original scheme, each nation would be responsible for constructing its own instrumentation and ground control station.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In 1998, BMDO conducted a Concept Design Review of the RAMOS program and determined that the original two-satellite demonstration program did not provide the United States with sufficient additional missile defense technical benefits to warrant moving forward with the original program plan. BMDO concluded that the political benefit of cooperating with Russia in missile defense could be achieved through other, unspecified cooperative programs. In short, without consulting with their Russian partners, DoD unilaterally backed away from the original agreement and shifted the priority of the program from "cooperation" to "operational benefit" for US space assets. Given that the technical objectives of the program are basic elements of effective missile defense not yet fully solved by MDA, the shift in priorities suggests that DoD changed its position on RAMOS for political, not technical, reasons.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Department of Defense did not, however, abandon the program at that point. Instead, BMDO proposed to restructure it. After examining a broad range of alternatives, the DoD developed two alternative program plans on its own to discuss with the Russian RAMOS team. The first alternative proposed using infrared sensors mounted on either an American or Russian aircraft to measure and simulate mid- and long-wave infrared against atmospheric clutter against the earth's background. The second alternative was simply to provide funding to the Russians to design and test new sensors on their own. Representatives of DoD met with Russian officials in March 1999 to discuss the matter. Although the Russians did not reject those options as additions to the program, they reiterated their support for the initial two-satellite program plan to which, in their view, both Presidents Yeltsin and Clinton had agreed. When Prime Minister Primakov met with Vice President Gore in New York in March 1999, he reiterated Russian support for the two-satellite program.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In July 2000, the Department of Defense proposed a revised plan to the Russians that returned to the two-satellite format of the initial program plan, but contained some important differences. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Jacques Gansler, proposed to the Russians that they be responsible for the design, construction and launch of both satellites and supporting ground station equipment. The US, he offered, would only be responsible for providing the basic sensors, the performance of sensor calibrations, and the integration of the sensors on to Russian satellites. The Russians have not formally accepted Dr. Gansler's proposal for the restructured program, a process that has doubtless been affected by Russian reactions to President Bush's announced intent for the U.S. to withdraw from the Anti-ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty.</span>

Only RAMOS can solve – pathfinder status and key capabilities
Humpherys et al 4 [T. Humpherys, V. Privalsky, Space Dynamics Laboratory, Utah State University; V. Sinelshchikov, V. Abramov, V. Misnik, Federal State Unitary Enterprise; A.T. Stair, I. Schiller, Visidyne, Inc; Nov 9, 2004, “Defense and Environmental Objectives for the Russian American Observational Satellites (RAMOS) Program,” http://www.sdl.usu.edu/downloads/papers/ramos-defense-environmental-objectives.pdf

RAMOS is a unique program in many ways. It has been the only cooperative space-based research program extant between the US Department of Defense and the Russian Ministry of Defense, it has enjoyed support at the highest levels of both governments, and it has brought scientists and engineers of the two countries together for more than a decade of fruitful cooperative research. In addition to its “pathfinder” status, RAMOS has been the only program investigating the usefulness of simultaneous, multi-spectral stereo-optical imaging
in the reduction of potential false alarms inherent in early warning systems—a capability of crucial importance to the US, Russia and the entire international community of nations. Finally, no other program is evaluating the utility of this unique simultaneous stereo-optical/multi-spectral imagery in assessing hazardous environmental phenomena worldwide and predicting their evolution and potential impact on human health and safety.

RAMOS technology is key
Bartschi et al. 98 [Brent, David Burt, Glen Wada, A.T. Stair, J.W. Carpenter, Orr Shepherd, “Russian American Observation Satellites,” [[http://www.sdl.usu.edu/programs/ramos.pdf]], Presented at the 1st Annual International Small Satellite Conference and Exhibition, November 16-20]

ENVIRONMENTAL--- RAMOS will demonstrate the feasibility of using defense-related assets for environmental monitoring. It will demonstrate the value to meteorological forecasters and modelers of real-time, high-resolution data in a stereo-optical or threedimensional presentation. This capability will enable investigators to measure the altitude of cloud tops with a 10-fold improvement in accuracy over current methods. Cloud fragment velocities, freezing point altitudes and other similar measurements will greatly enhance forecasters' ability to predict strength, speed and surface track of severe storm systems, and will minimize the need for costly and dangerous aircraft over-flights. The benefits that can arise from these data--a better understanding of hurricane evolution and wind strength prediction, for instance--are incalculable. A potential payoff is the ability to predict, worldwide, areas of potential hurricane damage with sufficient accuracy and timeliness to enable orderly evacuations and save lives. The ability to measure cloud elevations and velocities will also make possible early warning of potentially dangerous effluent clouds, both man-made (e.g., industrial) or natural (e.g., volcanic). The technology will greatly improve the ability to detect and track oil spills, to monitor environmentally-critical ocean, lake, crop and forest areas for signs of degradation, and to detect, track and map airborne contaminants. Specific, environmentally-directed science objectives of the RAMOS program include the following:
Climatological/Meteorological Data: Three-dimensional processing with a vertical resolution of 100 meters will improve current approaches of inferring cloud heights. Current methods, which use LWIR radiometric data coupled with temperature/altitude soundings yield, at best, accuracy to within 1 or 2 km. Combined with on-board spectro-photometric measurements of cloud-top temperatures (± 1 K), the RAMOS cloud-height measurements may accurately determine the intensities of tropical cyclones without the need for in-situ measurements from aircraft. Furthermore, direct measurements of both heights and horizontal velocities of cloud fragments will provide better information on the atmospheric wind field as a function of altitude; this information can be applied directly to numerical weather prediction. In combination with the on-board polarimetric capability, cloud-height measurements can determine the altitude at which cloud tops become glaciated. A compilation of these data will provide statistical information relevant to global climate modeling.
Parametric Effects: RAMOS will study the effects on space stereo imaging of varying the distance between the sensors in the orbit plane and the angle outside of the orbit plane. It will also study and evaluate the requirements for "real-time” (simultaneous) observations as opposed to stereo data obtained by viewing the scene later in time by the same satellite at a different point in its orbit. This will address the questions of time-varying geophysical phenomena driven by winds, atmospheric waves, etc.
Geophysical Events: The program will demonstrate the value of stereo-optical observation of unexpected ecological phenomena by viewing man-made environmental events, military conflicts, and geophysical events such as hurricanes, tornadoes and volcanoes. Stereooptical observations also provide the opportunity to probe at high resolution the threedimensional structure of the temporally and spatially-variable ozone layer to obtain additional insight into its underlying mechanisms.
Multispectral Measurements: RAMOS will obtain multispectral infrared measurements of various environmentally-sensitive areas such as crops, forests, flood plains, oil spills, etc. to help develop multispectral algorithms for large-area, distributed space-based sensors planned for the future.

Disasters cause extinction
SID-AHMED 05 Mohamed, Al-Ahram Online, Jan 6-12, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]])

The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within living memory. What happened in South Asia is the ecological equivalent of 9/11. Ecological problems like global warming and climatic disturbances in general threaten to make our natural habitat unfit for human life. The extinction of the species has become a very real possibility, whether by our own hand or as a result of natural disasters of a much greater magnitude than the Indian Ocean earthquake and the killer waves it spawned. Human civilisation has developed in the hope that Man will be able to reach welfare and prosperity on earth for everybody. But now things seem to be moving in the opposite direction, exposing planet Earth to the end of its role as a nurturing place for human life. Today, human conflicts have become less of a threat than the confrontation between [Humanity] Man and Nature. At least they are less likely to bring about the end of the human species. The reactions of Nature as a result of its exposure to the onslaughts of human societies have become more important in determining the fate of the human species than any harm it can inflict on itself. Until recently, the threat Nature represented was perceived as likely to arise only in the long run, related for instance to how global warming would affect life on our planet. Such a threat could take decades, even centuries, to reach a critical level. This perception has changed following the devastating earthquake and tsunamis that hit the coastal regions of South Asia and, less violently, of East Africa, on 26 December. This cataclysmic event has underscored the vulnerability of our world before the wrath of Nature and shaken the sanguine belief that the end of the world is a long way away. Gone are the days when we could comfort ourselves with the notion that the extinction of the human race will not occur before a long-term future that will only materialise after millions of years and not affect us directly in any way. We are now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

Solves extinction from disease
Ford et. al 11 (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, [[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]])

The scientific community has a relative consensus that epidemic and pandemic disease risks will be exacerbated by environmental changes that destabilize weather patterns, change distribution of vectors, and increase transport and transmission risk. Predictive modeling may lead to improved understanding and potentially prevent future epidemic and pandemic disease. Many respiratory infections are well known as highly climate dependent or seasonal. Although we are not yet able to predict their incidence with great precision, we may well be able to do this in the future. Meningococcal meningitis (caused by Neisseria meningitidis) in Africa is probably the best known example. In the disease-endemic so-called meningitis belt (an area running across sub-Saharan Africa from Senegal to Ethiopia), this is classically a dry season disease, which ceases with the beginning of the rainy season, likely as a result of changes in host susceptibility (19). Many other infectious diseases show strong seasonality or association with climatic conditions (20). Perhaps one of the most interesting is influenza, which is thought of as a wintertime disease in temperate climates but shows both winter and summer peaks in subtropical and tropical regions (21). Although the reasons for seasonality are often poorly understood, the close dependence of such diseases on climatic conditions suggests that these, too, are likely to be amenable to prediction by modeling and remote sensing (22). When we consider influenza, it is hard not to think about the future risks from pandemic influenza. Public health agencies in the United States and around the world are focusing on influenza preparedness, notably concerning influenza virus A subtype H5N1, which has captured attention because it causes severe disease and death in humans but as yet has demonstrated only very limited and inefficient human-to-human transmission. The severity of the disease raises images of the 1918 influenza epidemic on an unimaginably vast scale if the virus were to adapt to more efficient human-to-human transmission. Can predictive modeling using satellite or other imaging of environmental variables help in prediction of future influenza pandemics? Xiangming Xiao at the University of New Hampshire was funded in 2006 by the National Institutes for Health to lead a multidisciplinary and multi-institutional team to use remote satellite imaging to track avian flu. Xiao et al. have used satellite image–derived vegetation indices to map paddy rice agriculture in southern Asia (23). They believe that a similar approach can be used in conjunction with the more traditional approach of analyzing bird migration patterns and poultry production (24,25) to map potential hot spots of virus transmission (26).
=Round 4 - Neg vs. Greenhill BR - K. Demming= 
==Aff== 
Space Guard- Space Weather, Orbital Slots, and Air Force
==1nc== 
T- Human
Central Planning K
Consult Russia CP
Ex Im Politics DA

=Round 5 - Neg vs. College Prep LT - J. Heidt= 
==Aff== 
DSCOVR- Solar Storms, Knowledge
==1nc== 
T- Human
Central Planning K
ESA CP
Ex Im Politics DA

=Round 6 - Aff vs. GBN BS - A. McCarty= 
==Cooperation== 

Contention 1 is US-Russia space cooperation – it’s failing
RADYUHIN 11 [Vladimir, Moscow correspondent of The Hindu, July 29, 2011, “Now begins the era of the Soyuz,” http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/lead/article2306053.ece]

The pooling of resources could help Russia and the U.S. develop a new generation of space vehicles faster and at a lesser cost. Experts say interplanetary missions would be too costly and technologically challenging for any nation. Two years ago, Russia and the U.S. set up a working group on space within a joint presidential commission for bilateral cooperation. However, the two countries are still largely going their separate ways. They are building two different space shuttle systems — a Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle in the U.S. and a Prospective Piloted Transport System in Russia — and are drawing up separate programmes for the exploration of the Moon and the Mars.
Prospects for cooperation improved after President Barack Obama last year signed a new National Space Policy that placed emphasis on international cooperation, openness and transparency in space in contrast to President George W. Bush's strategy of global supremacy. However, a strong military space component in the U.S. global missile shield plan, which Russia sees as a threat to its security, is likely to hamper cooperation in the development of new space hardware.

Cooperation is key to relations and prevents a space arms race
Savelyev 04, Alexander Head of Sector Geopolitics of Strategic Analysis IMEMO Vice-President of the Institute of National Security and Strategic Studies (INBSI), “ Prospects for US-Russian Cooperation in Ballistic Missile Defense and Outer Space Activities” Journal of Slavic Military Studies 17: 99–109, 2004, [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13518040490440674]] NEH)

Space, for many very understandable reasons, is the most realistic arena in which Russia and the US could try to overcome the historical obstacles in the path of promoting world security and strategic stability through cooperation in practically all current and prospective areas. Joint responsibility on the part of Russia and the US in this field could help solve many problems that the two countries face in the new century. Cooperation between Russia and the US can play the central role in solving the task of global monitoring of outer space using national information assets, including early-warning satellites and ground-based ABM systems. Data exchange on space objects, the environment and other matters, can also contribute to strategic stability and international security. Cooperation in the field of space control could help to work out a legal basis for international inspections of all space systems to be launched into orbit, as well as for international data exchange on hostile activities against these systems and their elements. However, in order to move toward broad and successful US-Russian cooperation (to which, in principle, there are no serious alternatives) that is both stable and forward-looking, not only must the parties choose the optimal nature of their behavior, they must also create a new model of inter-governmental links. The basis of such a model must be the agreed-upon joint responsibility of the two states for global peace and stability, and for the character, ways and the consequences of the development of international space activities. Regarding US-Russian cooperation in the ABM sphere, it is too early to speak of some large-scale program in this field. But that conclusion does not exclude the possibility of stable movement toward the development of a new international security system, with the participation not only of the two ‘great space states’, but also of other interested parties that are ready to share the responsibility for creating a new world order. Such cooperation would raise the general level of security relations and could become a decisive limiting factor against an arms race in outer space. It would also stimulate the process of developing a positive strategy for space exploration.

That causes global WMD conflict
<span style="color: #000000;">Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, 'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

It’s reverse causal – failure to cooperate undermines all other cooperation
Logsdon and Millar 01 – (February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University, [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf]] DH)

Yet, to one participant, "If nothing else, good relations in the area of space policy help provide us with a cushion when they are failing in other areas. . . . Moscow’s military as well as its space program are in very dire straits. Both would seem to be close to cardiac arrest. Having said that, I think our interactions with the Russians in both of these areas are critical to our future bilateral relationship. It would be easy to dismiss the Russians as serious players given their internal situation- an attitude often heard around Washington. To a large degree, we have to carry the ball for them. . . . So why should we continue to pick up the tab? Why should the American taxpayer continue to subsidize the Russian space program - or our military to military contacts? It seems to me that there are two answers to this question. First, when it comes to the space program we are dealing with a very high visibility program. If we ignore the Russian space program, we run the risk of wounding their pride in a very serious way. They don?t need to be told that they are down and out. They know it better than we do. My experience with Russians tells me that they are experts when it comes to knowing the extent of their technological inferiority vis-a-vis the West - or put differently, just how far they are behind us. But by keeping them involved in the space program we are at least giving them a psychological fig leaf."

Russia’s key to make international cooperation effective
Rojansky and Collins 10 (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409]],)

A year and a half after Barack Obama hit the "reset" button with Russia, the reconciliation is still fragile, incomplete, and politically divisive. Sure, Russia is no easy ally for the United States. Authoritarian yet insecure, economically mighty yet technologically backward, the country has proven a challenge for U.S. presidents since the end of the Cold War. Recent news hasn't helped: The arrest in July of a former deputy prime minister and leader of the Solidarity opposition movement, Boris Nemtsov, provoked some of the harshest criticism of Russia yet from the Obama administration. Then last Wednesday, Russia announced that it had moved anti-aircraft missiles into Abkhazia, the region that broke off from Georgia during the August 2008 war. The announcement was hardly welcome news for the United States, which has tried to defuse tensions there for the last 24 months. Yet however challenging this partnership may be, Washington can't afford not to work with Moscow. Ronald Reagan popularized the phrase, "Trust, but verify" -- a good guiding principle for Cold War arms negotiators, and still apt for today. Engagement is the only way forward. Here are 10 reasons why:
1. Russia's nukes are still an existential threat. Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Russia has thousands of nuclear weapons in stockpile and hundreds still on hair-trigger alert aimed at U.S. cities. This threat will not go away on its own; cutting down the arsenal will require direct, bilateral arms control talks between Russia and the United States. New START, the strategic nuclear weapons treaty now up for debate in the Senate, is the latest in a long line of bilateral arms control agreements between the countries dating back to the height of the Cold War. To this day, it remains the only mechanism granting U.S. inspectors access to secret Russian nuclear sites. The original START agreement was essential for reining in the runaway Cold War nuclear buildup, and New START promises to cut deployed strategic arsenals by a further 30 percent from a current limit of 2,200 to 1,550 on each side. Even more, President Obama and his Russian counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, have agreed to a long-term goal of eliminating nuclear weapons entirely. But they can only do that by working together.
2. Russia is a swing vote on the international stage. As one of the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, Moscow holds veto power over any resolution that the body might seek to pass -- including recent efforts to levy tougher sanctions on Iran or, in 2009, against North Korea following that country's second nuclear test. Russian support for such resolutions can also help persuade China and others not to block them. The post-reset relationship between Moscow and Washington works like a force multiplier for U.S. diplomacy. Russia plays an equally crucial role in the G-8 and G-20 economic groups, helping to formulate a coordinated approach in response to economic threats. In 2008, for example, Russia supported a G-20 resolution promising to refrain from protectionism and avoid new barriers to investment or trade.

That solves nuclear war and global instability
Fareed Zakaria, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/08, http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249

The "Global Trends" report identifies several worrying aspects of the new international order—competition for resources like oil, food, commodities and water; climate change; continued terrorist threats; and demographic shifts. But the most significant point it makes is that these changes are taking place at every level and at great speed in the global system. Nations with differing political and economic systems are flourishing. Subnational groups, with varied and contradictory agendas, are on the rise. Technology is increasing the pace of change. Such ferment is usually a recipe for instability. Sudden shifts can trigger sudden actions—terrorist attacks, secessionist outbreaks, nuclear brinksmanship.
The likelihood of instability might increase because of the economic crisis. Despite some booms and busts—as well as 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq—the world has been living through an economic golden age. Global growth has been stronger for the past five years than in any comparable period for almost five decades. Average per capita income has risen faster than in any such period in recorded history. But that era is over. The next five years are likely to be marked by slow growth, perhaps even stagnation and retreat, in certain important areas. What will be the political effects of this slowdown? Historically, economic turmoil has been accompanied by social unrest, nationalism and protectionism. We might avoid these dangers, but it is worth being acutely aware of them.
At the broadest level, the objective of the United States should be to stabilize the current global order and to create mechanisms through which change—the rise of new powers, economic turmoil, the challenge of subnational groups like Al Qaeda—can be accommodated without overturning the international order. Why? The world as it is organized today powerfully serves America's interests and ideals. The greater the openness of the global system, the better the prospects for trade, commerce, contact, pluralism and liberty.
Any strategy that is likely to succeed in today's world will be one that has the active support and participation of many countries. Consider the financial crisis, which several Western governments initially tried to handle on their own. They seemed to forget about globalization—and nothing is more globalized than capital. Belatedly recognizing this, leaders held the G20 meeting in Washington. This was a good first step (though just a first step). Without a coordinated approach, efforts to patch up the system will fail.
The same applies not just to "soft" problems of the future—pandemics, climate change—but to current security challenges as well. The problem of multilateralism in Afghanistan—a place where everyone claims to be united in the struggle—is a sad test case for the future. Thirty-seven nations, operating with the blessing of the United Nations and attacking an organization that has brutally killed civilians in dozens of countries, are still unable to succeed. Why? There are many reasons, but it does not help that few countries involved—from our European allies to Pakistan—are genuinely willing to put aside their narrow parochial interests for a broader common one. Terrorism in South Asia generally requires effective multinational cooperation. Business as usual will produce terrorism that will become usual.
National rivalries, some will say, are in the nature of international politics. But that's no longer good enough. Without better and more sustained cooperation, it is difficult to see how we will solve most of the major problems of the 21st century. The real crisis we face is not one of capitalism or American decline, but of globalization itself. As the problems spill over borders, the demand for common action has gone up. But the institutions and mechanisms to make it happen are in decline. The United Nations, NATO and the European Union are all functioning less effectively than they should be. I hold no brief for any specific institution. The United Nations, especially the Security Council, is flawed and dysfunctional. But we need some institutions for global problem-solving, some mechanisms to coordinate policy. Unless we can find ways to achieve this, we should expect more crises and less success at solving them.
In a world characterized by change, more and more countries—especially great powers like Russia and China and India—will begin to chart their own course. That in turn will produce greater instability. America cannot forever protect every sea lane, broker every deal and fight every terrorist group. Without some mechanisms to solve common problems, the world as we have come to know it, with an open economy and all the social and political benefits of this openness, will flounder and perhaps reverse.

Cooperation revitalizes the Russian space program
Logsdon and Millar 01, John and James, scholars at the Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Affairs, George Washington University, Washington, “ US–Russian cooperation in human spaceflight: assessing the impacts*” Space Policy Volume 17, Issue 3, August 2001, Pages 171-178 NEH)

In the post-cold-war world, space policy is foreign policy. Russian participation could advance US goals in the former Soviet Union and strengthen President Boris Yeltsin. First, it would provide hard currency for the Government. Second, Russia is struggling to cling to the vestiges of its superpower status, and hardliners, in their fight against reforms, have played on the people's fear of diminished international standing. Remaining active in space exploration could help Russia maintain technological prestige while it reduces its nuclear arsenal. The project would allow Russia's talented scientists and engineers to escape from the confines of the military and intelligence apparatus. They could show American experts the full range of their skills and technology. This could open the doors to legitimate financial opportunities at a time when many are tempted by lucrative projects that would enhance the military capabilities of third world despots [1]. This listing of benefits to US interests from expanded US–Russian space cooperation closely parallels the rationales used by pro-cooperation advocates inside the US government. In the process of preparing initiatives for the initial Clinton–Yeltsin summit meeting in April 1993, the White House was searching for dramatic initiatives to symbolize the “strategic alliance for reform” that was at the heart of the Clinton administration's new strategy toward Russia. Summit planners hit upon the idea of, in essence, merging the US and Russian programs to develop a space station—an idea first suggested by Russian space leaders—as an ideal initiative from the administration's perspective. As observed by the Wall Street Journal, “Washington's decision to deal in the Russians on the orbiting space station is the cornerstone of an ambitious—and risky—strategy for binding Russia to the US and Western-style reforms by building links with its military, scientific and industrial elites” [2]. In summary, the major ‘nonprogrammatic’2 rationales for enhanced US–Russian cooperation in human spaceflight that led to Russia becoming a partner in the International Space Station program were • providing employment opportunities related to civilian space projects within Russia for Russian scientists and engineers who might otherwise have worked on projects not in the US interest; • providing incentives for the Russian government and Russian industrial enterprises to adhere to the provisions of the Missile Technology Control Regime and other nonproliferation measures; • building ties between US and Russian elites in the aerospace sector linked to shared Western values; • providing a way for the US government and private sector to channel hard currency into the Russian economy to assist in its stabilization and growth; • symbolizing US support for Russian reform and the administration of President Boris Yeltsin; and • helping Russia to maintain one of the emblems of its great power status—its human spaceflight program.

Cooperation strengthens the Russian economy and prevent brain drain
OTA 95 [US Congress Office of Technology Assessment, “U.S.-Russian Cooperation in Space,” April 1995, http://www.fas.org/ota/reports/9546.pdf]

Cooperation between the two countries raises economic, financial, scientific, foreign policy, and national security issues. U.S. efforts to include Russian scientists and engineers in cooperative efforts derive in large part from a desire to help Russia make a successful, stable transition to democracy, develop a market economy, and reduce military production in favor of civilian manufacturing. By involving some portion of Russia’s technical elite in high-technology space projects, the United States hopes to encourage highly educated professionals to stay in Russia and help develop its economy, rather than move to countries potentially hostile to the United States and its allies.7 U.S. purchases of space-related goods and services from Russia also provide much-needed hard currency for the Russian economy. Cooperation on Earth-observation projects stems in part from a desire to involve Russia more deeply in regional and global environmental matters.

Russian economic decline causes nuclear war
Patrick Speice, February, 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, p. lexis
Second, the economic decline that accompanied the transition to a market economy 36 exacerbated the problem, as the fiscal situation in the former Soviet states, most notably [*1437] Russia, made security programs impossible to fund. 37 Graham Allison summarizes the implications of post-Soviet disorder in Russia: The dramatic changes ... have produced political uncertainty, economic distress, and social dislocation. For tens of millions of Russians, hardship and deprivation are inescapable facts of life... [H]arsh economic conditions can create incentives for nuclear theft and smuggling. For people who are poorly housed, poorly fed, and poorly paid (when paid at all), there will be a temptation to do what they can to improve their lives and secure their futures. Russia's nuclear custodians face these pressures as they preside over weapons and materials that are immensely valuable to any state or group that covets nuclear weapons. It is not hard to imagine that people leading bleak, uncertain, and difficult lives might find irresistible the prospect of wealth and security via the nuclear black market... ... Organizations such as the Russian military and Minatom are now operating in circumstances of great stress. Money is in short supply, paychecks are irregular, living conditions unpleasant ... [D]isorder within Russia and the resulting strains within the military could easily cause a lapse or a breakdown in the Russian military's guardianship of nuclear weapons. 38 Accordingly, there is a significant and ever-present risk that terrorists could acquire a nuclear device or fissile material from Russia as a result of the confluence of Russian economic decline and the end of stringent Soviet-era nuclear security measures. 39 Terrorist groups could acquire a nuclear weapon by a number of methods, including "steal[ing] one intact from the stockpile of a country possessing such weapons, or ... [being] sold or given one by [*1438] such a country, or [buying or stealing] one from another subnational group that had obtained it in one of these ways." 40 Equally threatening, however, is the risk that terrorists will steal or purchase fissile material and construct a nuclear device on their own. Very little material is necessary to construct a highly destructive nuclear weapon. 41 Although nuclear devices are extraordinarily complex, the technical barriers to constructing a workable weapon are not significant. 42 Moreover, the sheer number of methods that could be used to deliver a nuclear device into the United States makes it incredibly likely that terrorists could successfully employ a nuclear weapon once it was built. 43 Accordingly, supply-side controls that are aimed at preventing terrorists from acquiring nuclear material in the first place are the most effective means of countering the risk of nuclear terrorism. 44 Moreover, the end of the Cold War eliminated the rationale for maintaining a large military-industrial complex in Russia, and the nuclear cities were closed. 45 This resulted in at least 35,000 nuclear scientists becoming unemployed in an economy that was collapsing. 46 Although the economy has stabilized somewhat, there [*1439] are still at least 20,000 former scientists who are unemployed or underpaid and who are too young to retire, 47 raising the chilling prospect that these scientists will be tempted to sell their nuclear knowledge, or steal nuclear material to sell, to states or terrorist organizations with nuclear ambitions. 48 The potential consequences of the unchecked spread of nuclear knowledge and material to terrorist groups that seek to cause mass destruction in the United States are truly horrifying. A terrorist attack with a nuclear weapon would be devastating in terms of immediate human and economic losses. 49 Moreover, there would be immense political pressure in the United States discover the perpetrators and retaliate with nuclear weapons, massively increasing the number of casualties and potentially triggering a full-scale nuclear conflict. 50 In addition to the threat posed by terrorists, leakage of nuclear knowledge and material from Russia will reduce the barriers that states with nuclear ambitions face and may trigger widespread proliferation of nuclear weapons. 51 This proliferation will increase the risk of nuclear attacks against the United States [*1440] or its allies by hostile states, 52 as well as increase the likelihood that regional conflicts will draw in the United States and escalate to the use of nuclear weapons. 53

Brain drain facilitates bioterror
Cook and Woolf 2 [Michelle, Research Assistant, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division; Amy, Specialist in National Defense, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division; Congressional Research Service, “Preventing Proliferation of Biological Weapons: U.S. Assistance to the Former Soviet States,”

Third, many experts believe that biological weapons capabilities in former Soviet states could be vulnerable to theft or sale.26 There are reports that the mafia and warring ethnic factions within Russia have tried to obtain biological weapons capabilities.27 Personnel at BRPCs in former Soviet states are generally poorly paid, which, some believe, could motivate them to steal and sell dangerous pathogens, weapons technologies, or instructions related to BW development and production.28 Seed cultures of pathogens might also be smuggled out of the BRPCs.
The United States does not have a complete knowledge of the biological weapons capabilities in the Soviet/RussianBWcomplex, and therefore, may not have vaccines or antibiotics that could provide a defense against infection. U.S. biodefense efforts have increased since September 11, 2001, but many public health officials stress that U.S. preparedness for a biological attack is still inadequate. In addition, according to many experts, biological weapons have several characteristics that could make them attractive to terrorist groups and hostile nation-states – they can produce mass casualties and incite panic;29 it could be difficult to trace the perpetrator of a biological attack;30 and they could provide an “asymmetric means” of challenging “America’s overwhelming conventional and nuclear war-fighting strength.”31
Some sources report that representatives of Iran and Al-Quaeda32 have attempted to recruit former Soviet scientists with BW expertise. According to George Tenet, the Director of Central Intelligence, these scientists possess expertise that could confer “the advantage of technological surprise” on enemies of the United States.33 Furthermore, hostile nations and terrorist groups might offer salaries significantly higher than the scientists’ current, often very low, incomes.34

Extinction
Ochs ‘02(Richard, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately”, June 09, Online: <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html</span>)

Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered biological weapons, many without a known cure or vaccine, are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. While a "nuclear winter," resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control. Biological weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated. There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. Abolition of chemical weapons is less of a priority because, while they can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment. Like the Holocaust, once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With nuclear and biological weapons, the killing will probably never end. Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. Potentially worse than that, bio-engineered agents by the hundreds with no known cure could wreck even greater calamity on the human race than could persistent radiation. AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? Human extinction is now possible.
Advantage 2
==Accidents== 


<span style="text-decoration: none;">History proves accidents in South Asia are probable – they’ll escalate</span>
Forden 1 [Geoffrey, senior research fellow with the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Reducing a Common Danger: Improving Russia’s Early-Warning System,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa399.pdf]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">India and Pakistan are relative newcomers to the problems associated with owning nuclear weapons. It is realistic for the three nuclear powers in the region, and in fact all countries of the world, to worry that one or the other country’s nuclear weapons are not sufficiently safe to be continuously deployed for extended periods of time. The nearly 60 years of U.S. nuclear weapons management has shown that deploying nuclear weapons is a dangerous undertaking. There have been a number of accidents that have strained the safety features on U.S. nuclear weapons and U.S. command and control to the limit. That no nuclear explosions occurred and that the accidents involving command and control did not cause an inadvertent nuclear war do not dispel the danger. Those incidents should make the world more aware of the dangers posed by deployed nuclear weapons.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The cause of an accidental nuclear explosion would not have to be design problems, though those too are possible. (It is known, for instance, that Iraq’s designs for nuclear weapons would have proved very unstable. Some UN arms inspectors stated that if the weapon had been constructed it could have exploded if it had been hit by a bullet or even dropped off a table.) 1 5 Perhaps even more likely are accidents associated with deployment. For instance, the United States has had airplanes carrying nuclear weapons crash or accidentally drop them. Such accidents severely stress any weapons safety features. In at least two accidents associated with B-52s, the conventional high explosives—used to initiate the nuclear explosion—detonated. It is possible, and some observers might argue, even likely, that a partial nuclear explosion could result. And in the heat of the moment, it might not be obvious that a subkiloton accident was not a several kiloton attack.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Of course, either India or Pakistan, and certainly China, might object that its own nuclear weapons were safe. But each country cannot be sure that all the nuclear weapons in the other countries in the region are safely deployed. For instance, if a nuclear explosion occurs in Pakistan, India’s vital security interest requires that Pakistan realize that an accidental detonation has occurred on its soil and was not the result of an Indian nuclear attack. Otherwise, Pakistan might mistakenly launch a “retaliatory” strike on India. China’s interests are also served by India’s knowing that a nuclear explosion on Indian territory was not the result of an attack. Similarly, Pakistan is well served if India knows that it was not attacked.</span>

Indo Pak war causes extinction
Robock and Toon 10 - Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado, received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine –http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf )
By deploying modern computers and modern cli­mate models, the two of us and our colleagues have shown that not only were the ideas of the 1980s correct but the effects would last for at least 10 years, much longer than previously thought. And by doing calculations that assess decades of time, only now possible with fast, current computers, and by including in our cal­culations the oceans and the entire atmosphere— also only now possible—we have found that the smoke from even a regional war would be heat­ed and lofted by the sun and remain suspended in the upper atmosphere for years, continuing to block sunlight and to cool the earth. India and Pakistan, which together have more than 100 nuclear weapons, may be the most worrisome adversaries capable of a regional nu­clear conflict today. But other countries besides the U.S. and Russia (which have thousands) are well endowed: China, France and the U.K. have hundreds of nuclear warheads; Israel has more than 80, North Korea has about 10 and Iran may well be trying to make its own. In 2004 this situation prompted one of us (Toon) and laterRich Turco of the University of California, Los Angeles, both veterans of the 1980s investiga­tions, to begin evaluating what the global envi­ronmental effects of a regional nuclear war would be and to take as our test case an engage­ment between India and Pakistan. The latest estimates by David Albright of the Institute for Science and International Security and by Robert S. Norris of the Natural Resourc­es Defense Council are that India has 50 to 60 assembled weapons (with enough plutonium for 100) and that Pakistan has 60 weapons. Both countries continue to increase their arsenals. In­dian and Pakistani nuclear weapons tests indi­cate that the yield of the warheads would be sim­ilar to the 15-kiloton explosive yield (equivalent to 15,000 tons of TNT) of the bomb the U.S. used on Hiroshima. Toon and Turco, along with Charles Bardeen, now at the National Center for Atmospheric Re­search, modeled what would happen if 50 Hiro­shima-size bombs were dropped across the high­est population-density targets in Pakistan and if 50 similar bombs were also dropped across In­dia. Some people maintain that nuclear weapons would be used in only a measured way. But in the wake of chaos, fear and broken communications that would occur once a nuclear war began, we doubt leaders would limit attacks in any rational manner. This likelihood is particularly true for Pakistan, which is small and could be quickly overrun in a conventional conflict. Peter R. La­ voy of the Naval Postgraduate School, for exam­ple, has analyzed the ways in which a conflict be­tween India and Pakistan might occur and ar­gues that Pakistan could face a decision to use all its nuclear arsenal quickly before India swamps its military bases with traditional forces. Obviously, we hope the number of nuclear targets in any future war will be zero, but policy makers and voters should know what is possible. Toon and Turco found that more than 20 million people in the two countries could die from the blasts, fires and radioactivity—a horrible slaugh­ter. But the investigators were shocked to discov­er that a tremendous amount of smoke would be generated, given the megacities in the two coun­tries, assuming each fire would burn the same area that actually did burn in Hiroshima and as­suming an amount of burnable material per per­son based on various studies. They calculated that the 50 bombs exploded in Pakistan would produce three teragrams of smoke, and the 50 bombs hitting India would generate four (one teragram equals a million metric tons). Satellite observations of actual forest fires have shown that smoke can be lofted up through the troposphere (the bottom layer of the atmosphere) and sometimes then into the lower stratosphere (the layer just above, extending to about 30 miles). Toon and Turco also did some “back of the en­velope” calculations of the possible climate im­pact of the smoke should it enter the stratosphere. The large magnitude of such effects made them realize they needed help from a climate modeler. It turned out that one of us (Robock) was already working with Luke Oman, now at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, who was finishing his Ph.D. at Rutgers University on the climatic effects of volcanic eruptions, and with Georgiy L. Stenchikov, also at Rutgers and an author of the first Russian work on nuclear winter. They developed a climate model that could be used fairly easily for the nuclear blast calculations. Robock and his colleagues, being conserva­tive, put five teragrams of smoke into their mod­eled upper troposphere over India and Pakistan on an imaginary May 15. The model calculated how winds would blow the smoke around the world and how the smoke particles would settle out from the atmosphere. The smoke covered all the continents within two weeks. The black, sooty smoke absorbed sunlight, warmed and rose into the stratosphere. Rain never falls there, so the air is never cleansed by precipitation; par­ticles very slowly settle out by falling, with air resisting them. Soot particles are small, with an average diameter of only 0.1 micron (μm), and so drift down very slowly. They also rise during the daytime as they are heated by the sun, re­peatedly delaying their elimination. The calcu­lations showed that the smoke would reach far higher into the upper stratosphere than the sul­fate particles that are produced by episodic vol­canic eruptions. Sulfate particles are transparent and absorb much less sunlight than soot and are also bigger, typically 0.5 μm. The volcanic par­ticles remain airborne for about two years, but smoke from nuclear fires would last a decade. Killing Frosts in Summer The climatic response to the smoke was surpris­ing. Sunlight was immediately reduced, cooling the planet to temperatures lower than any expe­rienced for the past 1,000 years. The global aver­age cooling, of about 1.25 degrees Celsius (2.3 degrees Fahrenheit), lasted for several years, and even after 10 years the temperature was still 0.5 degree C colder than normal. The models also showed a 10 percent reduction in precipitation worldwide. Precipitation, river flow and soil moisture all decreased because blocking sun­light reduces evaporation and weakens the hydrologic cycle. Drought was largely concen­trated in the lower latitudes, however, because global cooling would retard the Hadley air cir­culation pattern in the tropics, which produces a large fraction of global precipitation. In criti­cal areas such as the Asian monsoon regions, rainfall dropped by as much as 40 percent. The cooling might not seem like much, but even a small dip can cause severe consequences. Cooling and diminished sunlight would, for ex­ample, shorten growing seasons in the midlati­tudes. More insight into the effects of cooling came from analyses of the aftermaths of massive volcanic eruptions. Every once in a while such eruptions produce temporary cooling for a year or two. The largest of the past 500 years, the 1815 Tambora eruption in Indonesia, blotted the sun and produced global cooling of about 0.5 de­gree C for a year; 1816 became known as “The Year without a Summer” or “Eighteen Hundred and Froze to Death.” In New England, although the average summer temperature was lowered only a few degrees, crop-killing frosts occurred in every month. After the first frost, farmers re­planted crops, only to see them killed by the next frost. The price of grain skyrocketed, the price of livestock plummeted as farmers sold the animals they could not feed, and a mass migration began from New England to the Midwest, as people fol­lowed reports of fertile land there. In Europe the weather was so cold and gloomy that the stock market collapsed, widespread famines occurred and 18-year-old Mary Shelley was inspired to write //Frankenstein.// Certain strains of crops, such as winter wheat, can withstand lower temperatures, but a lack of sunlight inhibits their ability to grow. In our scenario, daylight would filter through the high smoky haze, but on the ground every day would seem to be fully overcast. Agronomists and farmers could not develop the necessary seeds or adjust agricultural practices for the rad­ically different conditions unless they knew ahead of time what to expect. In addition to the cooling, drying and dark­ness, extensive ozone depletion would result as the smoke heated the stratosphere; reactions that create and destroy ozone are temperature-depen­dent. Michael J. Mills of the University of Colo­rado at Boulder ran a completely separate climate model from Robock’s but found similar results for smoke lofting and stratospheric temperature changes. He concluded that although surface temperatures would cool by a small amount, the stratosphere would be heated by more than 50 degrees C, because the black smoke particles ab­sorb sunlight. This heating, in turn, would mod­ify winds in the stratosphere, which would carry ozone-destroying nitrogen oxides into its upper reaches. Together the high temperatures and ni­trogen oxides would reduce ozone to the same dangerous levels we now experience below the ozone hole above Antarctica every spring. Ultra­violet radiation on the ground would increase significantly because of the diminished ozone. Less sunlight and precipitation, cold spells, shorter growing seasons and more ultraviolet ra­diation would all reduce or eliminate agricultur­al production. Notably, cooling and ozone loss would be most profound in middle and high lat­itudes in both hemispheres, whereas precipita­tion declines would be greatest in the tropics. The specific damage inflicted by each of these environmental changes would depend on partic­ular crops, soils, agricultural practices and re­gional weather patterns, and no researchers have completed detailed analyses of such agricultural responses. Even in normal times, however, feed­ing the growing human population depends on transferring food across the globe to make up for regional farming deficiencies caused by drought and seasonal weather changes. The total amount of grain stored on the planet today would feed the earth’s population for only about two months [see “Could Food Shortages Bring Down Civiliza­tion?” by Lester R. Brown; Scientific Ameri­can, May]. Most cities and countries have stock­piled food supplies for just a very short period, and food shortages (as well as rising prices) have increased in recent years. A nuclear war could trigger declines in yield nearly everywhere at once, and a worldwide panic could bring the glob­al agricultural trading system to a halt, with se­vere shortages in many places. Around one billion people worldwide who now live on marginal food supplies would be directly threatened with star­vation by a nuclear war between India and Paki­stan or between other regional nuclear powers. Independent Evidence Needed Typically scientists test models and theories by doing experiments, but we obviously cannot experiment in this case. Thus, we look for ana­logues that can verify our models. Burned cities. Unfortunately, firestorms cre­ated by intense releases of energy have pumped vast quantities of smoke into the upper atmo­sphere. San Francisco burned as a result of the 1906 earthquake, and whole cities were incin­erated during World War II, including Dresden, Hamburg, Tokyo, Hiroshima and Nagasaki. These events confirm that smoke from intense urban fires rises into the upper atmosphere. The seasonal cycle. In actual winter the cli­mate is cooler because the days are shorter and sunlight is less intense; the simple change of sea­sons helps us quantify the effects of less solar ra­diation. Our climate models re-create the sea­sonal cycle well, confirming that they properly reflect changes in sunlight. Eruptions. Explosive volcanic eruptions, such as those of Tambora in 1815, Krakatau in 1883 and Pinatubo in 1991 provide several lessons. The resulting sulfate aerosol clouds that formed in the stratosphere were transported around the world by winds. The surface temperature plum­meted after each eruption in proportion to the thickness of the particulate cloud. After the Pi­natubo eruption, the global average surface tem­perature dropped by about 0.25 degree C. Glob­al precipitation, river flow and soil moisture all decreased. Our models reproduce these effects. Forest fires. Smoke from large forest fires sometimes is injected into the troposphere and lower stratosphere and is transported great dis­tances, producing cooling. Our models perform well against these effects, too. Extinction of the dinosaurs. An asteroid smashed into Mexico’s Yucatán Peninsula 65 million years ago. The resulting dust cloud, mixed with smoke from fires, blocked the Sun, killing the dinosaurs. Massive volcanism in India at the same time may have exacerbated the ef­fects. The events teach us that large amounts of aerosols in the earth’s atmosphere can change cli­mate drastically enough to kill robust species.

==Plan== 


The United States federal government should carry out its portion of the Russian American Observation Satellite project, as defined in the original project agreement.
Solvency

==Solvency== 
In 2004 the United States unilaterally withdrew from the RAMOS project despite Russian interest
Samson 7 [Victoria, director of Washington Operations for the Secure World Foundation, “Prospects for Russian-American Missile Defense Cooperation: Lessons from RAMOS and JDEC,” Contemporary Security Policy, Volume 28 Issue 3]

When the Missile defense Agency ended RAMOS, it did it entirely. SDL was alerted when the budget justification documents released in February 2004 stated that the agency was going to end the program as a result of Russia’s "lack of commitment," according to Tom Humpherys, RAMOS manager at SDL.48 This again harkens back to the American perspective of the matter: take the way we want this program to be and accept it. The Russians, given the changes RAMOS had gone through in the course of its lifespan, were dubious about it but willing to give it another chance. When the United States announced that it was cutting the program, Russia was still interested in seeing how the program fared. The United States made the decision for both countries to cut it. In any case, SDL was then in the midst of a two-plus year-long critical design review awarded in December 2003 and worth $50 million.49 Said a surprised Michael Pavich, director of SDL, “We were made aware in the spring that 2005 funding for the RAMOS program would be eliminated. We were not expecting Congress to rescind already obligated 2004 funds, which resulted in the immediate contract termination notice from MDA.”50 This notice came in July 2004 and mandated that the close-out be finished by 15 September of that year.51 RAMOS was not going to come back. Instead, the United States decided it would focus more on less sweeping, yet unstated goals in cooperating with Russia on missile defense. Said Kadish at the time, “We want some small wins, if you will…I am very hopeful that we'll be able to get moving in this area."52

Reviving the program creates a mechanism for shared early warning and prevents miscalc
Ford 8 [Christopher, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation “Dilemmas of Nuclear Force ‘De-Alerting,’” [[http://www.politik.uni-kiel.de/Professuren/dokumente/krause/WS1011/GlobalZero/Sitzung4/Sitzung4_Ford_DilemmasDe-Alerting.pdf]]]

The idea of improved mutual transparency as a way to reduce accident risks – and to help manage the escalatory potential of any problems that do occur – is thus well established. The two powers have also explored additional methods to increase their reciprocal confidence levels and provide a means by which to make false alarms less likely. The United States and Russia for a time pursued the development of a joint reconnaissance satellite program, for instance, the purpose of which was to track potential ballistic missile launches and feed data directly to both governments in order to help prevent errors and misunderstandings. This Russian-American Observation Satellite (RAMOS) project originated in discussions between the first President Bush and Russian President Boris Yeltsin, and led to an agreement between the two governments in 1997 to create two satellites for the provision of shared warning data on ballistic missile attacks.
The RAMOS program had collapsed by 2004 – when the U.S. Department of Defense declined to request further funding for Fiscal Year 200586 – but its failure seems to have been the result principally of such things as cost overruns, friction between counterpart organizations, and a failure by the two governments to prioritize the effort.87 The demise of the satellite project does not appear to have about on account of any perception of fundamental strategic unwisdom or technical unfeasibility. If a firm commitment were made further to reduce accident risks, there would seem no reason, in principle, why something along such lines could not actually be implemented in the future.

<span style="text-decoration: none;">RAMOS tech solves Indo-Pak accidents</span>
Forden 1 [Geoffrey, senior research fellow with the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Reducing a Common Danger: Improving Russia’s Early-Warning System,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa399.pdf]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Russia and the United States could mitigate this danger on the Asian subcontinent by jointly providing missile surveillance information to joint centers in all three countries. The joint centers would not have to routinely provide raw data, which might reveal sensitive information about earlywarning technology. Instead they could normally provide the type of analyzed information the JDEC plans to exchange between Russia and the United States. Only after an accidental nuclear explosion, as explained below, would a limited amount of raw data have to be provided.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Establishing confidence in the information provided is still key to the success of this measure, and that is harder than it might appear. For instance, any of those countries might argue that, in the case of an actual nuclear attack, both Russia and the United States have an interest in not providing confirmation. Instead, they would argue, it would be in the U.S. and Russian interests to try to slow down the escalation by not showing a missile attack in the hopes that the countries could reach an agreement before an all-out nuclear war.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">However, if the United States judges that the dangers of an inadvertent nuclear war in the region are greater than those of confirming an unprovoked attack, it must accept the responsibility of providing valid data even in the advent of a real nuclear war. Fortunately, there are technical means that could provide the countries with the reassurances they need. One possible approach would involve granting India, China, and Pakistan access to raw data in the event of an actual nuclear explosion. The data coming down from the satellite could be encrypted with codes that the three countries created to validate the data’s authenticity. Because of the need to show raw data to the countries in the region, the JDEC will not be enough. Hence the dedicated satellite.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">How would those joint centers improve U.S.-Russian nuclear stability? The centers in regional nations could be used to build confidence in U.S. and Russian missile identification software without revealing sensitive information about the algorithms that either country uses to identify the other’s missiles. In the original collaboration, U.S. and Russian space scientists working on RAMOS exchanged satellite images but carefully avoided exchanging algorithms for identifying missiles. A follow-on experiment could use the information derived from the current experiment to build a single, advanced-technology early-warning geostationary satellite that would be positioned over the Indian Ocean. (That satellite could have a field of view restricted to China, India, and Pakistan and would not provide the United States with additional early-warning information on Russia’s missile fields.) In the new experiment, the two teams of scientists—each with close ties to their own country’s early-warning establishments but independent of them—could jointly develop software that would recognize Indian, Chinese, and Pakistani missiles.</span>

RAMOS overcomes mistrust and spills over to further space cooperation
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

In May 2001, BMDO officials briefed congressional staffers that a primary policy objective underlying the RAMOS program was to "develop with Russia, mutually beneficial space technologies for defense and civilian applications." BMDO officials further stated their intent that RAMOS would "increase trust between the U.S. and Russia", and would "establish groundwork for future cooperative efforts with the Russian Federation." Early successful scientific joint experiments in space-based observations suggested that such objectives were realistic. During the early phase of the program, the U.S. and Russia conducted the first joint space surveillance experiment in which observation data were exchanged between the two participants. Later, Russians flew an imaging radiometer on a U.S. satellite. The history of the program since 1998, however, belies the goal of cooperation. Mistrust has become rife on both sides and prospects for further cooperation, even during the current post-September 11th period of cooperation, are growing dim.
One important factor underlying the growing mistrust between US and Russian program officials lies in the instability which characterizes the weapons acquisition process. For decades, DoD officials have decried the "instability" which plagues the development and purchase of major weapon systems. Program plans and schedules are constantly revised; funding levels are continually adjusted both within DoD and by the Congress; and program schedules are frequently delayed to reflect those changes. Often, political interests in the Congress serve as the source of instability. RAMOS has a history similar to many other DoD programs in those respects. The important factor distinguishing RAMOS from other defense programs, however, is that RAMOS was conceived as an international "partnership" between former antagonists undertaken in large part to build trust between them.
Since its inception, the US RAMOS program and policy administrators have repeatedly directed significant changes to RAMOS plans, funds, and schedules with little input from their Russian counterparts. As a result, Russian officials and scientists increasingly question the validity of the "partnership" despite their government's repeated official statements supporting the RAMOS program. A brief summary of changes to program plans and objectives illustrates why.

Plan solve all alt causes
<span style="color: #222222;">Gildea 1 [Kerry, journalist covering Congress and the Pentagon, "RAMOS Still Best Plan For Near-term Missile Defense Cooperation With Russia, Kadish Says," Defense Daily,<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_6712/is_15_212/ai_n28867459/]]</span>]</span>

<span style="color: #222222;">The most realistic option for cooperating with Russia on ballistic missile defense at this time remains the Russian American Observation Satellite (RAMOS) program, Air Force Lt. Gen. Ronald Kadish, director of the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, said last week.</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">BMDO and Russian counterparts are "close to success" in forming real cooperation on RAMOS after eight years of trying to do so, Kadish said Thursday at a breakfast sponsored by the National Defense University Foundation.</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">Expanded missile defense cooperation has been hindered because "there's still some degree of a Cold War mentality" in both the United States and Russia,Kadish said. However, he added, there are individuals like himself within the organizations of both countries who want the cooperation on RAMOS and other potential cooperative efforts to move forward.</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">"RAMOS could set an example," Kadish said, adding there could be offshoots to that program to do even closer cooperation in the missile defense arena in the future.</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">"It depends on the relationship that emerges in this new strategic relationship," Kadish said. "I am optimistic."</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">Last year during markup of the FY '01 Defense Authorization Bill lawmakers debated whether to continue funding RAMOS. Some lawmakers thought there were more promising technological areas to pursue, but nonetheless supported RAMOS as a goodwill political gesture to Russia (Defense Daily, Sept. 27).</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">The RAMOS program has undergone a number of restructures and revised plans over the years. Just last year, BMDO restructured RAMOS into a two- satellite program. Under the revised proposal, Russia would build, launch and operate two essentially identical satellites that carry U.S. infrared sensors for in-space experimentation.</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">Some lawmakers have said they are not convinced the United States can provide infrared sensors for integration into the Russian-built satellites without compromising the technology or providing extensive technical assistance to Russia.</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">But, some missile defense proponents like Rep. Curt Weldon (R-Pa.), chairman of the House Armed Services Committee procurement panel, have repeatedly pushed to restore funding to RAMOS over the past several years. Weldon has argued the program is essential if the United States and Russia are ever to reach a compromise on ballistic missile defense. He also more recently has pushed for a cooperative boost phase intercept technology program with Russia.</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">Meanwhile, the RAMOS team last year conducted tests on an Air Force Flying Infrared Signatures Technology aircraft, which is a modified Boeing [BA] KC-135. Those tests involved flying U.S. and Russian instruments like those that could be flown in a RAMOS satellite constellation. The RAMOS team collected data on short- and mid-wave infrared polarization from cloud cover and looked at issues like solar scattering problems from space.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Missile (ABM) Treaty.</span>

Only RAMOS can solve – pathfinder status and key capabilities
Humpherys et al 4 [T. Humpherys, V. Privalsky, Space Dynamics Laboratory, Utah State University; V. Sinelshchikov, V. Abramov, V. Misnik, Federal State Unitary Enterprise; A.T. Stair, I. Schiller, Visidyne, Inc; Nov 9, 2004, “Defense and Environmental Objectives for the Russian American Observational Satellites (RAMOS) Program,” http://www.sdl.usu.edu/downloads/papers/ramos-defense-environmental-objectives.pdf

RAMOS is a unique program in many ways. It has been the only cooperative space-based research program extant between the US Department of Defense and the Russian Ministry of Defense, it has enjoyed support at the highest levels of both governments, and it has brought scientists and engineers of the two countries together for more than a decade of fruitful cooperative research. In addition to its “pathfinder” status, RAMOS has been the only program investigating the usefulness of simultaneous, multi-spectral stereo-optical imaging
in the reduction of potential false alarms inherent in early warning systems—a capability of crucial importance to the US, Russia and the entire international community of nations. Finally, no other program is evaluating the utility of this unique simultaneous stereo-optical/multi-spectral imagery in assessing hazardous environmental phenomena worldwide and predicting their evolution and potential impact on human health and safety.

RAMOS technology is key
Bartschi et al. 98 [Brent, David Burt, Glen Wada, A.T. Stair, J.W. Carpenter, Orr Shepherd, “Russian American Observation Satellites,” [[http://www.sdl.usu.edu/programs/ramos.pdf]], Presented at the 1st Annual International Small Satellite Conference and Exhibition, November 16-20]

ENVIRONMENTAL--- RAMOS will demonstrate the feasibility of using defense-related assets for environmental monitoring. It will demonstrate the value to meteorological forecasters and modelers of real-time, high-resolution data in a stereo-optical or threedimensional presentation. This capability will enable investigators to measure the altitude of cloud tops with a 10-fold improvement in accuracy over current methods. Cloud fragment velocities, freezing point altitudes and other similar measurements will greatly enhance forecasters' ability to predict strength, speed and surface track of severe storm systems, and will minimize the need for costly and dangerous aircraft over-flights. The benefits that can arise from these data--a better understanding of hurricane evolution and wind strength prediction, for instance--are incalculable. A potential payoff is the ability to predict, worldwide, areas of potential hurricane damage with sufficient accuracy and timeliness to enable orderly evacuations and save lives. The ability to measure cloud elevations and velocities will also make possible early warning of potentially dangerous effluent clouds, both man-made (e.g., industrial) or natural (e.g., volcanic). The technology will greatly improve the ability to detect and track oil spills, to monitor environmentally-critical ocean, lake, crop and forest areas for signs of degradation, and to detect, track and map airborne contaminants. Specific, environmentally-directed science objectives of the RAMOS program include the following:
Climatological/Meteorological Data: Three-dimensional processing with a vertical resolution of 100 meters will improve current approaches of inferring cloud heights. Current methods, which use LWIR radiometric data coupled with temperature/altitude soundings yield, at best, accuracy to within 1 or 2 km. Combined with on-board spectro-photometric measurements of cloud-top temperatures (± 1 K), the RAMOS cloud-height measurements may accurately determine the intensities of tropical cyclones without the need for in-situ measurements from aircraft. Furthermore, direct measurements of both heights and horizontal velocities of cloud fragments will provide better information on the atmospheric wind field as a function of altitude; this information can be applied directly to numerical weather prediction. In combination with the on-board polarimetric capability, cloud-height measurements can determine the altitude at which cloud tops become glaciated. A compilation of these data will provide statistical information relevant to global climate modeling.
Parametric Effects: RAMOS will study the effects on space stereo imaging of varying the distance between the sensors in the orbit plane and the angle outside of the orbit plane. It will also study and evaluate the requirements for "real-time” (simultaneous) observations as opposed to stereo data obtained by viewing the scene later in time by the same satellite at a different point in its orbit. This will address the questions of time-varying geophysical phenomena driven by winds, atmospheric waves, etc.
Geophysical Events: The program will demonstrate the value of stereo-optical observation of unexpected ecological phenomena by viewing man-made environmental events, military conflicts, and geophysical events such as hurricanes, tornadoes and volcanoes. Stereooptical observations also provide the opportunity to probe at high resolution the threedimensional structure of the temporally and spatially-variable ozone layer to obtain additional insight into its underlying mechanisms.
Multispectral Measurements: RAMOS will obtain multispectral infrared measurements of various environmentally-sensitive areas such as crops, forests, flood plains, oil spills, etc. to help develop multispectral algorithms for large-area, distributed space-based sensors planned for the future.

Original agreement key – anything else forces renegotiation
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

In his letter of July 14, 2000 to his Russian counterpart, Dr. Mikhailov, State-Secretary, First Minister of Defense, Dr. Gansler stated the need to "underpin this (revised) program with a government-to-government agreement to underscore the commitment of both our governments to the program and outline our specific roles." BMDO officials have interpreted Dr. Gansler's words to mean that a new government-to-government agreement is required before the program could resume at full throttle. Consequently, BMDO officials determined that the release of Congressionally-authorized and appropriated funding for RAMOS should be withheld pending a new agreement. Of $30 million appropriated to fund Russian participation in the program for FY 2002, MDA has released only $2 million thus far this year.
While BMDO withholds critical funding for the program, the Russian side wrestles with the nature and the form of a new government-to-government agreement. During meetings in Moscow between members of the Russian RAMOS team and representatives of the Center for Defense Information (CDI), Russian scientists and officials in the Ministries of Defense and Foreign Affairs stated their view that the government-to-government agreement reached between Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin for the initial two-satellite RAMOS program still pertained despite the adjustments proposed by Gansler in July 2000. BMDO officials, however, have taken the view that those adjustments are sufficiently significant that a new agreement is warranted.

Causes delay and rollback
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Given the disparity in viewpoints on this crucial issue, it is likely to take a significant amount of time for US and Russian officials to negotiate detailed terms of a new government-to-government agreement. Meantime, MDA could effectively kill the program by withholding funds the program needs to continue. During CDI's recent meetings with US and Russian program contract personnel, both sides indicated that the technical teams that have been working side by side on the program for a number of years will soon be dissolved if funding is not made available in coming weeks. The cooperation and trust built among Russian and American technical personnel could soon be lost if the teams are disassembled. Aside from the issue of funding availability, Congressional staff familiar with the program have indicated to CDI that MDA intends to formally discontinue the program this summer if a new government-to-government agreement is not signed in the near future.</span>

Extinction
SID-AHMED 05 Mohamed, Al-Ahram Online, Jan 6-12, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]])

The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within living memory. What happened in South Asia is the ecological equivalent of 9/11. Ecological problems like global warming and climatic disturbances in general threaten to make our natural habitat unfit for human life. The extinction of the species has become a very real possibility, whether by our own hand or asa result of natural disasters of a much greater magnitude than the Indian Ocean earthquake and the killer waves it spawned. Human civilisation has developed in the hope that Man will be able to reach welfare and prosperity on earth for everybody. But now things seem to be moving in the opposite direction, exposing planet Earth to the end of its role as a nurturing place for human life. Today, human conflicts have become less of a threat than the confrontation between [Humanity] Man and Nature. At least they are less likely to bring about the end of the human species. The reactions of Nature as a result of its exposure to the onslaughts of human societies have become more important in determining the fate of the human species than any harm it can inflict on itself. Until recently, the threat Nature represented was perceived as likely to arise only in the long run, related for instance to how global warming would affect life on our planet. Such a threat could take decades, even centuries, to reach a critical level. This perception has changed following the devastatingearthquake and tsunamis that hit the coastal regions of South Asia and, less violently, of East Africa, on 26 December. This cataclysmic event has underscored the vulnerability of our world before the wrath of Nature and shaken the sanguine belief that the end of the world is a long way away. Gone are the days when we could comfort ourselves with the notion that the extinction of the human race will not occur before a long-term future that will only materialise after millions of years and not affect us directly in any way. We are now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Solves pandemics – extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Ford et. al 11</span> (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, [[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]])

The scientific community has a relative consensus that epidemic and pandemic disease risks will be exacerbated by environmental changes that destabilize weather patterns, change distribution of vectors, and increase transport and transmission risk. Predictive modeling may lead to improved understanding and potentially prevent future epidemic and pandemic disease. Many respiratory infections are well known as highly climate dependent or seasonal. Although we are not yet able to predict their incidence with great precision, we may well be able to do this in the future. Meningococcal meningitis (caused by Neisseria meningitidis) in Africa is probably the best known example. In the disease-endemic so-called meningitis belt (an area running across sub-Saharan Africa from Senegal to Ethiopia), this is classically a dry season disease, which ceases with the beginning of the rainy season, likely as a result of changes in host susceptibility (19). Many other infectious diseases show strong seasonality or association with climatic conditions (20). Perhaps one of the most interesting is influenza, which is thought of as a wintertime disease in temperate climates but shows both winter and summer peaks in subtropical and tropical regions (21). Although the reasons for seasonality are often poorly understood, the close dependence of such diseases on climatic conditions suggests that these, too, are likely to be amenable to prediction by modeling and remote sensing (22). When we consider influenza, it is hard not to think about the future risks from pandemic influenza. Public health agencies in the United States and around the world are focusing on influenza preparedness, notably concerning influenza virus A subtype H5N1, which has captured attention because it causes severe disease and death in humans but as yet has demonstrated only very limited and inefficient human-to-human transmission. The severity of the disease raises images of the 1918 influenza epidemic on an unimaginably vast scale if the virus were to adapt to more efficient human-to-human transmission. Can predictive modeling using satellite or other imaging of environmental variables help in prediction of future influenza pandemics? Xiangming Xiao at the University of New Hampshire was funded in 2006 by the National Institutes for Health to lead a multidisciplinary and multi-institutional team to use remote satellite imaging to track avian flu. Xiao et al. have used satellite image–derived vegetation indices to map paddy rice agriculture in southern Asia (23). They believe that a similar approach can be used in conjunction with the more traditional approach of analyzing bird migration patterns and poultry production (24,25) to map potential hot spots of virus transmission (26).

=Round 7 - Aff vs. Carrolton UV - N. Cohn= 
=False Alarms= 
Russian early warning systems are failing making false alarms inevitable
Forden et al 2K [Geoffrey Forden, Pavel Podvig and Theodore A. Postol, “False alarm, nuclear danger,” [[http://russianforces.org/podvig/2000/03/false_alarm_nuclear_danger.shtml]]; Geoffrey Forden is an analyst in the National Security Division of the U.S. Congressional Budget Office. He holds a Ph.D. in experimental high-energy physics, a field in which he has done research in the United States and Europe. Pavel Podvig is a researcher at the Center for Arms Control, Energy, and Environmental Studies at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology. He graduated from the general and applied physics department there in 1988. Podvig has written about the politics of missile defenses, the future of Russian strategic forces, and the U.S.-Russian strategic relationship. He is the editor of Russian Strategic Nuclear Weapons (IzdAT, Moscow, 1998). Theodore A. Postol has been professor of science, technology, and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in Cambridge, since 1989. Before that, he worked at Argonne National Laboratory as a research physicist, at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment as an analyst studying the MX missile, and at the Pentagon as the assistant for weapons technology to the chief of naval operations.

__Those satellites__, known as Defense Support Program (DSP) satellites__,__ can detect the infrared energy radiated from the hot exhaust of a missile's rocket engine launched from anywhere on the earth's surface. DSP satellites reportedly detected all the Iraqi Scud missiles launched during the Persian Gulf War, which also marked the first time the general public became aware of their existence. Though designed to provide an early-warning alert of missile launches on the other side of the earth, their most important function to date has been to __assure policymakers that missiles have not,__ in fact__, been launched.__
The 1979 incident was not the only false alarm to nearly trigger nuclear war. Shortly after dawn on 25 January 1995, __Russian radars detected a rocket__ launched from an island off the northwest coast of Norway. Because of the limited resolution of the radars, they could determine only that the altitude and speed of the rocket __looked like those of a U.S. Trident nuclear missile.__ Also, although __the__ __observed rocket__ was heading away from Russia, it w__as on a trajectory that could be used to blind Russian radars__ and prevent them from detecting an attack from U.S. land-based Minuteman or MX missiles or submarine-based Tridents. Official details of the event have never been released, but most probably, the rocket set off automated warning alarms at the radar sites, which then notified military commanders in Moscow and elsewhere.
What happened next throughout the Russian command structure is not known, except that then-President Boris Yeltsin was directly involved in the assessment of the warning alarms and the decision not to launch a nuclear retaliation against the West.
Some Western analysts worry that this incident represented a possible failure of Russia's command-and-control system. Russian experts, understandably irritated by alarmist statements in the West that suggest Russian incompetence, have countered that this case proved that their system works, even under a grave threat.
Whatever the truth may be, an analysis of the state of Russia's early-warning satellites at that time indicates that __the country's leaders__ had reliable information that no nuclear attack was under way from land-based Minuteman or MX missiles. But they __were unable to determine reliably whether they were under attack__ from the more capable U.S. nuclear Trident forces in the Atlantic and Pacific--which means that the warning system in 1995 was far from adequate. __The fact that Russia did not mistakenly launch a counterattack__ on the United States at that time __hardly guarantees that when future warning system accidents occur, they will lead to the same nondisastrous outcome.__
Indeed, because of the prolonged effects of Russia's floundering economy, __if a similar incident occurred today, Russian leaders would have far less information than they had in 1995__. Currently, Russia is totally blind to a Trident attack from the Atlantic and Pacific, and, for all practical purposes, it is equally blind to a Minuteman or MX attack from the continental United States. With the breakup of the Soviet Union, Russia lost an important radar station in Latvia that was designed to warn of nuclear attack from the Atlantic. Plus, there is still an unmonitored corridor of attack from the Pacific. The result is that __crucial gaps are evident in Russia's early-warning radar fence__ [Fig. 1].
What's more, __the satellite constellation that__ in 1995 provided the country's leaders with reassurance that a Minuteman or MX attack was not under way __has since suffered from the consequences of both mechanical failures in space and economic failure on the ground. The constellation can perform its early-warning mission only if each satellite is maintained__ in highly specialized elliptical orbits. Each orbit is fixed relative to the others so that the satellites will pass in sequence high over northern Europe, from which they can each in turn see the space above U.S. missile fields.
Now, however, __most of the satellites have failed, or reached the end of their lives, and are drifting out of control. This has resulted in the development of large gaps__ in coverage during any given 24-hour period. In fact, the U.S. Congressional Budget Office, a federal body that provides Congress with analyses needed to make economic and budget decisions, has estimated that these satellites can work no more than 17 hours of each day, and possibly much less.
As for the newest generation of Russian satellites, designed to warn against submarine missile attack, the system is still inoperable. At present, __only one Russian geostationary early-warning satellite, Cosmos 2224, is working, and that was launched in 1992__. Given the limited capabilities of these satellites today, and the gaping holes in the ground-based early-warning radar system, it is obvious that __the Russians cannot use these systems to reassure themselves that they are not under attack.__
These __shortfalls__ in the early-warning system and the faltering political relationship between the United States and Russia __increase the chances that an unforeseen set of events will trigger a massive coordinated launch of the latter's nuclear forces. If such an event were to occur, in addition to massive strikes against the United States, it is almost certain that nuclear warheads would fall on other North Atlantic Treaty Organization__ allies, as well as on other countries that pose a threat to Russia. While various recommendations have been put forward to improve the country's early-warning capabilities, to date little has been done.
Spotting the dangers
Obviously, a __deteriorating Russian command-and-control system that cannot distinguish between a benign event and a real attack poses a worldwide threat__. Far less obvious is what problems really exist and how they might be solved. Some Russians have openly discussed the issues raised by the potential for accidents in both sides' early-warning systems. But others deny to this day the occurrence of any false alarms--despite first-hand accounts, published in both Russia and the West, of a serious Russian false alarm amid the Cold War tensions of 1983 [see "Colonel Petrov's good judgment"], as well as the post-Cold War incident in 1995.
Fortunately, the physical processes used to detect missiles in flight, the celestial mechanics that govern satellite orbits, and publicly available information released over the years by the U.S. Department of Defense make it possible to construct a fairly complete picture of both sides' early-warning capabilities. The results of such analyses can help in understanding, even without access to classified Russian or U.S. information, what can be done to reduce the danger of nuclear war from accidents that could cause false alerts.
The 1995 incident started harmlessly enough. Shortly before sunrise, NASA, in collaboration with Norwegian scientists, launched a four-stage Black Brant XII rocket to study the Northern Lights from an island off the coast of Norway.
The launch was no rarity. Andoya Island is the site of a sounding rocket launch facility, from which many scientific experiments have been fired. But the Black Brant XII had a different configuration from that of other rockets typically launched from Andoya, one that, to the low-resolution Russian early-warning radars, made it indistinguishable from a Trident missile in powered flight.
The __coincidences that led the Black Brant to be mistaken for a Trident are uncanny, and should be taken as a sobering warning that accidents in these early-warning systems can and will happen again__. The rocket's first and second stages were discarded at a low altitude, never rising to a height where they could be seen by the radar. The third-stage motor also burned out below the radar horizon, but was then carried over the horizon by its momentum. At that point, it was trailing the Black Brant at a speed and distance similar to those between a Trident and its discarded first stage. As the Black Brant's fourth stage rose higher over the radar horizon, its velocity and altitude resembled those of a Trident during its second-stage powered flight. Add to these circumstances the Black Brant's ejection of its nosecone at an altitude and speed similar to those of a Trident. That event led to yet another radar signature tending to confirm that the unknown rocket was a Trident [Fig. 2]. It is a near certainty that the computers on Russia's early-warning radars were programmed to issue an alarm when these signatures were observed in the radar data.

Incomplete information will force Russia to retaliate
NTRC 5 [The Nuclear Threat Reduction Campaign (NTRC), a joint project of Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and The Justice Project, educates and mobilizes key constituencies on a centrist, bipartisan basis to advance public policy that reduces the threat posed by nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, “U.S.-Russian Ballistic-Missile Early-Warning Cooperation,” [[http://www.veteransforamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/01/22-early-warning-final.pdf]]]

The __deficiencies in Russia’s E-W system create dangers for the U.S. ironically because of the more capable U.S. strategic force and the nuclear posture that Russia may believe it must maintain__. We have a nuclear force ready for launch in a very few minutes—about 1,300 submarine-based nuclear warheads deployed at sea that could reach targets in Russia within 10 to 15 minutes,5 along with 500 land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles with multiple warheads6 that could reach Russia in about 30 minutes.7 Most of this nuclear force (primarily our submarine-based missiles) would survive a Russian first strike. By contrast, __Russia has only about 20 to 200 nuclear weapons that could survive__ a U.S. attack; and __it may consider this an insufficient deterrent. To counter this vulnerability, Russia may adopt a “launch-on-warning” strategy__, particularly during a period of international tension, making about 1,900 strategic nuclear warheads ready for launch within minutes of an attack order being given.8
Thus, __if Russia were to detect an incoming missile attack—or erroneously conclude that one likely was underway—the Russian president would have, at best, only about 10 minutes in which to try to obtain verification and decide either to order an immediate counterattack__ or to run the risk that attacking warheads would destroy Russia’s ability to retaliate on a massive scale. __While making this decision whether to “use them or lose them,” the Russian leadership would be confounded by the knowledge that its E-W system could be providing false information that an attack was underway or, by virtue of the gaps in its coverage, leave them with no way to verify whether a suspected attack was real.__
The above-mentioned RAND study ascribes the resulting dangers for the U.S. to two main reasons:
First, __without a clear, accurate picture of what is happening around the globe, Russia may confuse a benign event (such as a space launch) for a nuclear attack, possibly prompting a decision to launch__ a nuclear strike. Second, without a properly functioning, two-tiered E-W system, Russia will have less time available to decide … whether to launch a retaliatory response.9

Rapid escalation is inevitable – none of their defense assumes C3I vulnerability
Ford 10 [Christopher, Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C., former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, reserve intelligence officer in the U.S. Navy, “Playing for Time on the Edge of the Apocalypse: Maximizing Decision Time for Nuclear Leaders,” http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Decision%20Time%20Final%20for%20Print.pdf]

Yet this is not the end of the story, for sophisticated advocates of de-alerting measures do not necessarily contend that LOW is actually official policy. Rather, scholars such as Blair suggest that __no matter what official policy is, U.S. and Russian decision-makers face__ formidable __incentives to launch on warning__ anyway – as long as that option is technically available – __because__ force and __command-system vulnerabilities leave them__ with __no alternative__ to LOW if they are __to inflict__ the desired level of __retaliatory damage__ on the enemy. Because __both sides__ effectively __lack a__ genuine “__ride-out” option__, the argument goes, __they would__ be left, in practice, with little choice but to __adopt a de facto LOW policy, which is indeed just as dangerous__ly destabilizing and prone to accident as the more hawkish Wohlstetters and Kahns always believed. (Indeed, it is perhaps worse, insofar as the critics allege that the nuclear superpowers’ command-and-control systems are very likely at some point to give rise to an uncaught false alarm or some other accident likely to trip their de facto LOW postures into catastrophic motion.) Through this prism, de-alerting is said to become necessary as a means to prevent vulnerabilities from giving rise to launch-on-warning decisions by making it technically impossible to launch during the very brief span of time between detection of what looks like an enemy attack and its presumed time of impact.
Let us examine this argument in more detail, for it lies at the heart of the de-alerting debate – and perhaps our way out of it. As indicated, the most sophisticated and articulate critiques of current nuclear force postures, in which at least some forces are set up for extremely rapid launch, are Bruce Blair and Scott Sagan, who offer different but complimentary arguments. Blair’s account revolves around the __incentives for__ a __launch-on-warning__ posture he says __are created by the vulnerability__ not just (or even principally) of nuclear forces themselves (e.g., missile silos) but __of__ the command, control, communications, and intelligence __(C3I) architectures__ upon which their employment in actual nuclear warfighting depends. In his view, in effect, both nuclear superpowers’ longstanding __investments in survivable__ second-strike nuclear __weapons__ to some extent __missed the point__ – or at least proved radically incomplete – insofar __as they failed to provide__ Washington and Moscow with a genuine ability to mount and manage __a retaliatory strike because__ national __C3I systems would be too damaged__ by a massive nuclear exchange __to__ handle the demands of __second-strike__ battle management.32 Both countries are thus said to have faced tremendous incentives for launch-on-warning – in practice, at least, whether or not this was official policy – because it was presumably clear to their nuclear planners that C3I degradation and outright force attrition (e.g., high losses of silo-based ballistic missiles and non-alerted bomber forces) from an enemy attack would prevent its recipient from mounting the kind of retaliatory strike it deemed necessary.33

The reset doesn’t solve – lingering tensions and inevitable crises mean conflict is still possible
Arbatov and Dvorkin 6 [Alexei Arbatov, Scholar-in-Residence and Program Co-chair of Nuclear Nonproliferation at the Carnegie Moscow Center and head of the Center for International Security at the Institute for International Economy and International Relationships of the Russian Academy of Sciences; Vladimir Dvorkin, senior researcher at the Center for International Security at the Institute for World Economy and International Relations of the Russian Academy of Sciences and former director of the Fourth Central Research Institute in Moscow, “Beyond Nuclear Deterrence: Transforming the U.S.–Russian Equation,” http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf]

__Even when dramatic changes__ occur in the political relations __between nuclear states__ that __make them stop seeing each other as adversaries, as with Russia and the U__nited __S__tates following the Cold War, these states’ armed forces, and foremost their __nuclear forces, retain the__ powerful __momentum of confrontation__ and competition. These __forces cannot adjust__ to new cooperative political relations on their own __without__ political and technical __efforts that are__ consistent, __well designed, and bilateral.__
Furthermore, __newly emerging adversaries__, contingencies, __and__ challenges brought about by nuclear __proliferation__ and various conflicts of national interests __may destabilize strategic relations__ between the former enemies. The result can be increased tensions in their strategic policies, with highly detrimental political, military, and legal arms control consequences.
__For example__, the 2002 __U.S.__ decision to test and deploy a strategic ballistic missile defense (__BMD__) system, allegedly designed to defend the United States from the new countries (that is, “rogue states”) possessing ballistic missiles, __and Washington’s withdrawal from the__ 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile (__ABM) Treaty, made Russia__ place __increase__d __reliance on its offensive__ strategic __nuclear force__. Thus, Moscow extended the service lives of those of its heavy intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) equipped with multiple independently targeted reentry vehicles (MIRVs) and even purchased a few dozen MIRV missiles from Ukraine’s stockpile. Also, as reported by President Vladimir Putin, __Russia__ has __accelerated development of a new strategic offensive weapon system__ fitted with a gliding and maneuvering reentry vehicle __designed to penetrate__ “any __BMD__ system.” In keeping with post-Cold War sensitivities no specific opponent has been mentioned, but this new system can only be assumed to be intended to target the United States.
__Russia reacted in a similar way to a new U.S. program of nuclear earth-penetrating warheads__ allegedly designed to destroy underground bunkers in terrorist-held areas and rogue states. Many __Russians believe that this program is directed at Russia’s own hardened sites.__ As Russia’s defense minister, Sergei Ivanov, said, Moscow is attentively tracking the developments in the U.S. strategic nuclear force. In particular, we are not indifferent to the U.S. programs of developing mini-nuclear weapons, for each new type of weapon adds up new elements to the general picture of global stability. We are to take it into account in our military planning.1

The impact is extinction
Helfand and Pastore ‘9 [John, Ira – Physicians for Social Responsibility. ”US-Russia Nuclear War is Still a Threat” [[http://www.projo.com/|www.projo.com]], 3/31/9 //GBS-JV] 

Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not. There remain in the world more than 20,000 nuclear weapons. Alarmingly, __more than 2,000 of these weapons in the U.S. and Russian arsenals remain on ready-alert status, commonly known as hair-trigger alert. They can be fired within five minutes and reach targets in the other country 30 minutes later.__
Just one of __these weapons can destroy a city. A war involving a substantial number would cause devastation on a scale unprecedented in human history__. A study conducted by Physicians for Social Responsibility in 2002 showed that if only 500 of the Russian weapons on high alert exploded over our cities, __100 million Americans would die in the first 30 minutes.__
An __attack of this magnitude also would destroy the entire economic, communications and transportation infrastructure on which we all depend. Those who survived the initial attack would inhabit a nightmare landscape__ with huge swaths of the country __blanketed with radioactive fallout and epidemic diseases rampant. They would have no food, no fuel, no electricity, no medicine, and certainly no organized health care__. In the following months it is likely the vast majority of the U.S. population would die.
Recent studies by the __eminent climatologists Toon and Robock have shown that such a war would have a huge and immediate impact on climate world wide.__ If all of the warheads in the U.S. and Russian strategic arsenals were drawn into the conflict, __the firestorms they caused would loft 180 million tons of soot and debris into the upper atmosphere — blotting out the sun. Temperatures across the globe would fall an average of 18 degrees Fahrenheit to levels not seen on earth since the depth of the last ice age,__ 18,000 years ago. __Agriculture__ __would stop, eco-systems would collapse, and many species, including perhaps our own, would become extinc__t.
=Cooperation= 

Scenario one is space cooperation – it’s failing now
RADYUHIN 11 [Vladimir, Moscow correspondent of The Hindu, July 29, 2011, “Now begins the era of the Soyuz,” http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/lead/article2306053.ece]

The __pooling of resources could help Russia and the U.S. develop a new generation of space vehicles faster and at a lesser cost.__ Experts say interplanetary missions would be too costly and technologically challenging for any nation. Two years ago, __Russia and the U.S. set up a working group on space__ within a joint presidential commission for bilateral cooperation. __However,__ the two countries __are still__ largely __going their separate ways__. They are building two different space shuttle systems — a Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle in the U.S. and a Prospective Piloted Transport System in Russia — __and__ are __drawing up separate programmes for__ the __exploration__ of the Moon and the Mars__.__
__Prospects for cooperation improved after__ President Barack __Obama__ last year __signed a new National Space Policy that__ placed emphasis on international cooperation, openness and transparency in space in contrast to President George W. Bush's strategy of global supremacy. __However__, a strong military space component in __the U.S.__ global __missile shield__ plan, __which Russia sees as a threat__ to its security, __is likely to hamper cooperation__ in the development of new space hardware.

Cooperation is key to relations and prevents a space arms race
Savelyev 04, Alexander Head of Sector Geopolitics of Strategic Analysis IMEMO Vice-President of the Institute of National Security and Strategic Studies (INBSI), “ Prospects for US-Russian Cooperation in Ballistic Missile Defense and Outer Space Activities” Journal of Slavic Military Studies 17: 99–109, 2004, [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13518040490440674]] NEH)

__Space__, for many very understandable reasons, __is the most realistic arena in which Russia and the US could__ try __to__ __overcome__ the historical __obstacles in the path of promoting world security and__ strategic __stability through cooperation__ in practically all current and prospective areas. Joint responsibility on the part of Russia and the US in this field could help solve many problems that the two countries face in the new century. __Cooperation__ between Russia and the US __can play the central role in__ solving the task of global __monitoring of outer space using__ national information assets, including __early-warning satellites__ and ground-based ABM systems. __Data exchange__ on space objects, the environment and other matters, __can__ also __contribute to__ strategic __stability and__ international security. Cooperation in the field of space control could help to __work out a legal basis for__ international __inspections of__ all __space systems__ to be launched into orbit, __as well as__ for international __data exchange on hostile activities__ against these systems and their elements. However, in order to move toward broad and successful US-Russian cooperation (to which, in principle, there are no serious alternatives) that is both stable and forward-looking, not only must the parties choose the optimal nature of their behavior, they must also create a new model of inter-governmental links. The basis of such a model must be the agreed-upon joint responsibility of the two states for global peace and stability, and for the character, ways and the consequences of the development of international space activities. Regarding US-Russian cooperation in the ABM sphere, it is too early to speak of some large-scale program in this field. But that conclusion does not exclude the possibility of stable movement toward the development of a new international security system, with the participation not only of the two ‘great space states’, but also of other interested parties that are ready to share the responsibility for creating a new world order. Such __cooperation would raise__ the __general__ level of security __relations and__ could __become a decisive limiting factor against an arms race in__ outer __space.__ It would also stimulate the process of developing a positive strategy for space exploration__.__ 

That causes global WMD conflict
<span style="color: #000000;">Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of __their use'__.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 __The interlocking nature of offense and defense in__ military __space__ technology __stems from__ the inherent __'dual capability'__ of spaceborne weapon components. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such __interceptors can__ also __be used as__ orbiting __'Death Stars',__ capable of __sending munitions__ hurtling __through the__ Earth's __atmosphere.__ The dizzying __speed__ of space warfare __would introduce__ intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating __incentives to rig__ orbiting __Death Stars with__ automated __'hair trigger' devices__. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 __Deployment__ of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles __would__ likely __make war__ itself __inevitable, given__ the __susceptibility__ of such systems __to__ 'normal __accidents'.__ It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, 'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that __any nation__ subjected to space weapon attack __would retaliate with__ maximum force, including use of __nuclear, bio__logical, __and__/or __chemical weapons. An accident__al war sparked by a computer glitch in space __could plunge__ the world __into the most destructive__ military __conflict ever__ seen.</span>

Scenario two is BMD cooperation – current attempts are failing – success solves relations, arms control and deters prolif – shared early warning is key
Futter, 10 [Andrew. doctoral candidate at the University of Birmingham, U.K., and a current fellow at the Council for a Livable World in Washington, D.C. “US Must Prioritize BMD Cooperation With Russia.” World Politics Review. [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5951/u-s-must-prioritize-bmd-cooperation-with-russia]]]

Having reached an agreement on the New START treaty in April, the __Obama__ administration's __next step__ in its pursuit of a new strategic partnership with Russia __appears to be__ establishing some type of joint __collaboration on__ ballistic missile defense (__BMD__). __These__ recent __efforts__ should be applauded, as they __hold the potential to reinforce trust and cooperation__ between the two powers, as well as to __solidify a__ united __defense against__ the growing threats from __Iran and North Korea__. Such an accord would __also__ appear to be __integral to__ the prospects of achieving __further__ nuclear __arms reductions__ agreements __and working__ gradually __toward a world without nuclear weapons__. Reaching an agreement is unlikely to be easy, but the potential diplomatic, strategic and political rewards warrant the Obama administration making BMD cooperation a top foreign policy priority.
Despite the fact that the idea of U.S.-Russian BMD cooperation is several decades old, very __little tangible progress has been achieved__ since the Global Protection System envisaged by President George H.W. Bush and his Russian counterpart, Boris Yeltsin, in 1992. While this was certainly due in part to the subsequent strategic priorities of Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, it was also a reflection of the nascent technological status of many BMD systems under development. Under President Barack Obama, and according to the recent Ballistic Missile Defense Review and Nuclear Posture Review, BMD has assumed an established role in U.S. security strategy. __With the expansion of U.S. BMD__ activity around the globe, but particularly __in Europe, and with Obama's focus on cooperation__ in U.S. foreign policy, __the time seems ripe to__ attempt to __negotiate some__ type of __agreement.__
It would also seem prudent to begin talks __before__ U.S. and NATO __BMD__ systems expand to such an extent that they __become an insurmountable obstacle in__ U.S.-Russian __relations__. Any such agreement is likely to be fairly rudimentary at first, perhaps beginning with some type of coordinated but separate deployments against Iran. But __a gradual__ step-by-step __process could__ eventually __lead to sharing early warning data__ and perhaps even some collaboration on command and control. Such a process would significantly __enhance__ U.S. and Russian __security, strengthen__ bilateral __relations, and bring more pressure to bear on__ international pariahs like __Iran and North Korea.__
Although BMD cooperation makes sense on a number of political and strategic levels, arguably the best reason for pursuing an agreement is the potential implications it holds for the Obama administration's push for nuclear disarmament and its quest for "global zero." The simple fact is that __without some way to alleviate Russian concerns about__ the growing U.S. global __missile defense__ system, now and in the future, __Moscow is unlikely to entertain__ further __reductions__ in its nuclear stockpile below what was agreed under New START. In fact, the expansion of BMD is likely to exacerbate the current trend of Russia becoming more -- rather than less -- reliant on nuclear weapons for both its defense and its continued status as a "great power."
__By bringing Russia on board, the U.S. would__ be able to __provide reassurance that__ U.S. missile __defense was not aimed at Moscow, removing a key__ driving __factor for the retention of__ Russian nuclear __weapons__ and potentially helping to create the trust that may allow for further and deeper nuclear cuts. In the distant long term, such cooperation may be the basis upon which the world could safely move away from a reliance on nuclear weapons for deterrence, and toward a deterrence based on defense rather than offense. In any case, without such an agreement, it will be very difficult to achieve further nuclear cuts, not to mention global zero.

Arms control is key to global nonproliferation
<span class="Underline">Blechman 11 [Barry, founder of Defense Forecasts International and the Stimson Center; currently a distinguished fellow focused on nuclear disarmament at the Stimson Center, “Next Steps in U.S.-Russia Arms Control: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly,” [[http://www.stimson.org/summaries/next-steps-in-us-russia-arms-control-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly/]]]</span>

<span class="Underline">Also, failure of the U.S.-Russia arms control process, the failure to take the next step over a reasonable period of time, will make stemming proliferation more difficult. Now I know there's a lot of skepticism about this, that Iran doesn't make its decision based on whether the U.S. and Russia have 2,000 or 1,500 warheads. And that's correct, but the fact that the U.S. and Russia are moving, even if glacially, or at least promising to move toward eventual disarmament, does have an effect on our ability diplomatically to get countries to do what we'd like in support of the proliferation regime. I would cite recent efforts to secure nuclear materials, beginning with the 2010 summit, as an example of that. And, particularly, our much greater success in getting countries to first vote for, and then comply with, the Iran sanctions, at least the sanctions against Iran's nuclear program and its military program, are also in part dependent upon continuing the promise of movement toward our own disarmament.</span>
<span class="Underline">The basic deal in the Nonproliferation Treaty is that the vast majority of states in the world, some 184 of them, I think, at the last count, renounced their right to acquire nuclear weapons permanently. They said solemnly that we will never acquire nuclear weapons. And the deal was that, in turn, the nuclear weapon states would move, or at least show the prospect of moving, towards disarmament.</span>
<span class="Underline">When it becomes obvious that that deal is breaking down, diplomatic efforts to get countries to do what we want to stem proliferation, becomes more difficult. It doesn't help with rogues like North Korea and Iran, but it helps in a much broader sense.</span>

The nonproliferation regime is on the brink of collapse – strengthening it is key to prevent cascading global prolif
<span class="Underline">Lettow 10 [Paul, adjunct senior fellow for national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, served as the senior director for strategic planning and institutional reform on the National Security Council staff from 2007 to 2009, and as a senior adviser to the undersecretary of state for democracy and global affairs from 2006 to 2007, “Strengthening the Nuclear Nonproliferation Regime,” http://i.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Nonproliferation_CSR54.pdf]</span>

__The__ international nuclear __nonprolif__eration __regime__—the principal objective of which is to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons—__is under severe strain__. The __North Korean and Iranian__ nuclear programs have __exploited__ and underscored __weaknesses__ in the regime __that must be fixed__ if it is to serve its purpose. Those weaknesses are both structural— ambiguities and limitations in the current rules—and result from a failure to enforce the rules that exist.
The __rules__ as currently applied __have been unable to prevent the spread of enrichment and reprocessing,__ which can produce fuel for nuclear reactors or the fissile material for a nuclear weapon, to countries with unclear or military intentions.1 The __existing means of detecting,__ determining, and enforcing __violations__ of the nonproliferation regime __have proven insufficient__ in the face of countries determined to pursue a nuclear weapon capability. The spread of nuclear energy is opening new pathways to proliferation. And __political wrangling__ over nuclear disarmament __has__ too often __stood in the way of progress__ on reforming the international system designed to prevent nuclear proliferation.
North Korea became the first state to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) and test nuclear devices: the first outright failure of the nuclear nonproliferation regime and an ominous development. Iran, though still a nominal party to the NPT, has long been in violation of its nonproliferation obligations during its quest to become a nuclear power. __The__ North Korean and Iranian __programs__ have demonstrated that the regime is flawed and not being enforced adequately. At the same time, they __have generated pressure on rivals to look to offsetting capabilities. They may also__ lead some to __perceive that__ nuclear __weapons can provide status and__ bargaining __leverage__. The __confluence of those factors__, unless changed, __could signal the demise of the NPT__ regime as an effective barrier to new nuclear weapons–capable states.2

Nuclear war
Evans and Kawaguchi 9—President of the International Crisis Group & Former Foreign Minister of Japan [December 15, 2009, Gareth Evans (Co-chair of the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament and Professorial fellow in the School of Social and Political Sciences @ University of Melbourne) & Yoriko Kawaguchi (Co-chair of the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament), “Eliminating Nuclear Threats: A Practical Agenda for Global Policymakers,” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament Report, pg. 31-32, http://www.icnnd.org/Reference/reports/ent/part-ii-3.html]

3.1 Ensuring that no new states join the ranks of those already nuclear armed must continue to be one of the world’s top international security priorities. __Every new nuclear__-armed __state will add__ significantly __to the__ inherent __risks – of__ accident or __miscalculation__ as well as deliberate use – involved in any possession of these weapons, __and__ potentially __encourage more states to acquire__ nuclear weapons to avoid being left behind. __Any scramble for__ nuclear __capabilities is bound to generate__ severe __instability__ in bilateral, regional and international relations. The __careful__ly worked __checks__ and balances of interstate relations __will come under__ severe __stress.__ There will be enhanced fears of nuclear blackmail, and of irresponsible and unpredictable leadership behaviour. 3.2 In conditions of __inadequate command and control__ systems__, absence of confidence building measures and multiple agencies in the__ nuclear weapons __chain of authority, the possibility of an accident__al or maverick usage of nuclear weapons __will remain high__. Unpredictable elements of risk and reward will impact on decision making processes. The __dangers are compounded if__ the new and aspiring nuclear weapons __states have__, as is likely to be the case__, ongoing__ inter-state __disputes__ with ideological, territorial, historical – and for all those reasons, strongly emotive – dimensions. 3.3 __The transition__al period __is__ likely to be most __dangerous__ of all, __with__ the __arrival__ of nuclear weapons tending to be __accompanied by sabre rattling__ and competitive nuclear chauvinism. For example, as __between Pakistan and India__ a degree of stability might have now evolved, but 19__98–[to]__20__02__ __was__ a period of __disturbingly fragile__ interstate relations. Command and control and __risk management__ of nuclear weapons __takes time to evolve__. Military and political leadership in new nuclear-armed states need time to learn and implement credible safety and security systems. __The risks of__ nuclear __accidents__ and the possibility of nuclear action __through inadequate crisis control__ mechanisms __are__ very __high__ in such circumstances. If this is coupled with political instability in such states, the risks escalate again. __Where__ such __countries are beset with internal stresses__ and fundamentalist groups with trans-national agendas, __the risk of__ nuclear weapons or fissile material coming into possession of __non____<span style="font-family: 'MS Gothic';">‑</span>state actors cannot be ignored__. 3.4 The action–reaction cycle of nations on high alerts, of military deployments, threats and counter threats of military action, have all been witnessed in the Korean peninsula with unpredictable behavioural patterns driving interstate relations. The impact of a proliferation breakout in the Middle East would be much wider in scope and make stability management extraordinarily difficult. __Whatever the chances of “stable deterrence__” prevailing __in a Cold War__ or India–Pakistan __setting, the prospects are__ significantly __less__ in a regional setting __with multiple nuclear power centres divided by multiple__ and cross-cutting __sources of conflict__.

Russia’s key to make international cooperation effective
Rojansky and Collins 10 (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409]],)

A __year and a half after__ Barack __Obama hit the "reset" button with Russia, the reconciliation is still fragile, incomplete, and politically divisive.__ Sure, Russia is no easy ally for the United States. Authoritarian yet insecure, economically mighty yet technologically backward, the country has proven a challenge for U.S. presidents since the end of the Cold War. Recent news hasn't helped: The arrest in July of a former deputy prime minister and leader of the Solidarity opposition movement, Boris Nemtsov, provoked some of the harshest criticism of Russia yet from the Obama administration. Then last Wednesday, Russia announced that it had moved anti-aircraft missiles into Abkhazia, the region that broke off from Georgia during the August 2008 war. The announcement was hardly welcome news for the United States, which has tried to defuse tensions there for the last 24 months. Yet __however challenging this partnership may be, Washington can't afford not to work with Moscow__. Ronald Reagan popularized the phrase, "Trust, but verify" -- a good guiding principle for Cold War arms negotiators, and still apt for today. Engagement is the only way forward. Here are 10 reasons why: 
1. Russia's nukes are still an existential threat. Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Russia has thousands of nuclear weapons in stockpile and hundreds still on hair-trigger alert aimed at U.S. cities. This threat will not go away on its own; cutting down the arsenal will require direct, bilateral arms control talks between Russia and the United States. New START, the strategic nuclear weapons treaty now up for debate in the Senate, is the latest in a long line of bilateral arms control agreements between the countries dating back to the height of the Cold War. To this day, it remains the only mechanism granting U.S. inspectors access to secret Russian nuclear sites. The original START agreement was essential for reining in the runaway Cold War nuclear buildup, and New START promises to cut deployed strategic arsenals by a further 30 percent from a current limit of 2,200 to 1,550 on each side. Even more, President Obama and his Russian counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, have agreed to a long-term goal of eliminating nuclear weapons entirely. But they can only do that by working together.
2. __Russia is a swing vote on the international stage__. As one of the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, __Moscow holds veto power over any resolution__ that the body might seek to pass -- including recent efforts to levy tougher sanctions on Iran or, in 2009, against North Korea following that country's second nuclear test. __Russian support for such resolutions can also help persuade China and others not to block them. The post-reset relationship between Moscow and Washington works like a force multiplier for U.S. diplomacy__. __Russia plays an equally crucial role in the G-8 and G-20 economic groups, helping to formulate a coordinated approach__ in response to economic threats. In 2008, for example, Russia supported a G-20 resolution promising to refrain from protectionism and avoid new barriers to investment or trade.

That solves nuclear war and global instability
Fareed Zakaria, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/08, http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249

The "Global Trends" report identifies several worrying aspects of the new international order—competition for resources like oil, food, commodities and water; climate change; continued terrorist threats; and demographic shifts. But the most significant point it makes is that these changes are taking place at every level and at great speed in the global system. Nations with __differing political__ and economic __systems are flourishing. Subnational groups__, with varied and contradictory agendas, __are on the rise. Tech__nology __is increasing__ the pace of change. __Such__ __ferment is__ usually __a recipe for instability__. Sudden __shifts can trigger__ sudden actions—terrorist attacks, secessionist outbreaks, __nuclear brinksmanship__.
The likelihood of instability might increase because of the economic crisis. Despite some booms and busts—as well as 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq—the world has been living through an economic golden age. Global growth has been stronger for the past five years than in any comparable period for almost five decades. Average per capita income has risen faster than in any such period in recorded history. But that era is over. __The next__ five __years are likely to be__ __marked by slow growth__, perhaps even stagnation and retreat, in certain important areas. What will be the political effects of this slowdown? __Historically, economic turmoil has been accompanied by__ social __unrest__, nationalism and protectionism. We might avoid these dangers, but it is worth being acutely aware of them.
At the broadest level, __the objective__ of the United States __should be to stabilize the__ current __global order and__ to __create mechanisms through which__ change—__the rise of new powers__, economic turmoil, the challenge of subnational groups like Al Qaeda—__can be accommodated__ without overturning the international order. Why? The world as it is organized today powerfully serves America's interests and ideals. The greater the openness of the global system, the better the prospects for trade, commerce, contact, pluralism and liberty.
Any strategy that is likely to succeed in today's world will be one that has the active support and participation of many countries. Consider the financial crisis, which several Western governments initially tried to handle on their own. They seemed to forget about globalization—and nothing is more globalized than capital. Belatedly recognizing this, leaders held the G20 meeting in Washington. This was a good first step (though just a first step). Without a coordinated approach, efforts to patch up the system will fail.
The same applies not just to "soft" problems of the future—pandemics, climate change—but to current security challenges as well. The problem of multilateralism in Afghanistan—a place where everyone claims to be united in the struggle—is a sad test case for the future. Thirty-seven nations, operating with the blessing of the United Nations and attacking an organization that has brutally killed civilians in dozens of countries, are still unable to succeed. Why? There are many reasons, but it does not help that few countries involved—from our European allies to Pakistan—are genuinely willing to put aside their narrow parochial interests for a broader common one. Terrorism in South Asia generally requires effective multinational cooperation. Business as usual will produce terrorism that will become usual.
National rivalries, some will say, are in the nature of international politics. But that's no longer good enough. __Without better__ and more sustained __cooperation, it is difficult to__ see how we will __solve__ most of the __major problems__ of the 21st century. The real crisis we face is not one of capitalism or American decline, but of globalization itself. As the problems spill over borders, the __demand for common action has gone up. But the institutions__ and mechanisms to make it happen __are in decline__. The United Nations, NATO and the European Union are all functioning less effectively than they should be. I hold no brief for any specific institution. The United Nations, especially the Security Council, is flawed and dysfunctional. But __we need__ some institutions for global problem-solving, some __mechanisms to coordinate policy. Unless we__ can find ways to __achieve this, we should expect more crises__ and less success at solving them.
In a world characterized by change, more and more countries—especially __great powers like Russia and China and India—will begin to chart their own course. That__ in turn __will produce greater instability__. America cannot forever protect every sea lane, broker every deal and fight every terrorist group. Without some mechanisms to solve common problems, the world as we have come to know it, with an open economy and all the social and political benefits of this openness, will flounder and perhaps reverse.

=Plan= 

Thus the plan: the United States federal government should carry out its portion of the Russian American Observation Satellite project, as defined in the original project agreement. We’ll clarify.
=Solvency= 

In 2004 the United States unilaterally withdrew from the RAMOS project despite Russian interest
Samson 7 [Victoria, director of Washington Operations for the Secure World Foundation, “Prospects for Russian-American Missile Defense Cooperation: Lessons from RAMOS and JDEC,” Contemporary Security Policy, Volume 28 Issue 3]

__When the Missile defense Agency ended RAMOS, it did it entirely__. SDL was alerted when the budget justification documents released in February 2004 stated that the __agency was going to end the program as a result of Russia’s "lack of commitment,"__ according to Tom Humpherys, RAMOS manager at SDL.48 This again harkens back to the American perspective of the matter: take the way we want this program to be and accept it. T__he Russians,__ given the changes RAMOS had gone through in the course of its lifespan, __were__ dubious about it but __willing to give it another chance.__ When the United States announced that it was cutting the program, __Russia was still interested in seeing how the program fared.__ __The U__nited __S__tates __made the decision for both countries to cut it.__ In any case, SDL was then in the midst of a two-plus year-long critical design review awarded in December 2003 and worth $50 million.49 Said a surprised Michael Pavich, director of SDL, “We were made aware in the spring that 2005 funding for the RAMOS program would be eliminated. We were not expecting Congress to rescind already obligated 2004 funds, which resulted in the immediate contract termination notice from MDA.”50 This notice came in July 2004 and mandated that the close-out be finished by 15 September of that year.51 RAMOS was not going to come back. Instead, the United States decided it would focus more on less sweeping, yet unstated goals in cooperating with Russia on missile defense. Said Kadish at the time, “We want some small wins, if you will…I am very hopeful that we'll be able to get moving in this area."52

Reviving the program creates a mechanism for shared early warning and prevents miscalc
Ford 8 [Christopher, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation “Dilemmas of Nuclear Force ‘De-Alerting,’” [[http://www.politik.uni-kiel.de/Professuren/dokumente/krause/WS1011/GlobalZero/Sitzung4/Sitzung4_Ford_DilemmasDe-Alerting.pdf]]]

The __idea of__ improved mutual __transparency__ as a way __to reduce accident risks__ – and to help manage the escalatory potential of any problems that do occur – __is thus well established__. The two powers have also explored additional methods to increase their reciprocal confidence levels and provide a means by which to make false alarms less likely. __The__ __United States and Russia__ for a time __pursued__ the development of __a joint__ reconnaissance __satellite program__, for instance, the purpose of which was __to track__ potential ballistic __missile launches and feed data__ directly __to both governments__ in order __to__ help __prevent__ errors and __misunderstandings__. This Russian-American Observation Satellite (RAMOS) project originated in discussions between the first President Bush and Russian President Boris Yeltsin, and led to an agreement between the two governments in 1997 to create two satellites for the provision of shared warning data on ballistic missile attacks__.__
The __RAMOS__ program had __collapsed__ by 2004 – when the U.S. Department of Defense declined to request further funding for Fiscal Year 200586 – __but__ its __failure seems to have been the result__ principally __of__ such things as __cost overruns, friction__ between counterpart organizations, __and a failure__ by the two governments __to prioritize__ the effort.87 The __demise__ of the satellite project __does not appear to have about on account of__ any perception of __fundamental__ strategic unwisdom or technical __unfeasibility__. __If a firm commitment were made__ further to reduce accident risks__, there would seem no reason,__ in principle__, why something along such lines could not__ actually __be implemented__ in the future__.__

Ramos tech allows Russia to repair its early warning
Forden 1 [Geoffrey, senior research fellow with the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Reducing a Common Danger: Improving Russia’s Early-Warning System,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa399.pdf]

U.S. assistance to Russia’s future earlywarning system should focus on two aspects__.__ First, we should continue our joint research effort with Russia—known as the RussianAmerican Observation Satellites project. __RAMOS__ has had a long and stormy history. The program started out in 1992 as an effort to engage Russia in missile defense research— a goal to which it continues to contribute. But some of the research also __has significant implications for reducing the costs of Russia’s early-warning__ system__.__
__One goal__ of RAMOS __is to test a new way of filtering__ out reflected __sunlight.__ If that line of inquiry is fruitful, as many scientists believe it will be, __Russia and the United States will__ be able to __deploy satellites that are no longer sensitive to reflected light__, so the Russians will no longer need early-warning satellites in highly elliptical orbits. Instead__, a single satellite in geostationary orbit__ over the Atlantic __would give them__ all __the ability that 10 do today.__ __Relying on three such satellites would result in global coverage,__ considerable cost __savings, and__ presumably __allow Russia to__ better __maintain its__ own __satellites__.
About $340 million would be needed to complete the RAMOS project. However, the United States gets considerably more than just the vital improvement in Russia’s earlywarning system. The research being done by RAMOS could directly contribute to improvements in the troubled Space-Based Infrared System—a low-satellite program that is a component of the U.S. national missile defense system. Furthermore, Russia has agreed to launch some tactical missiles for RAMOS satellites to observe; those observations should provide valuable data that the United States can use for its theater missile defenses.
After several years of tying U.S. assistance on RAMOS to Russian concessions on the ABM treaty, the Clinton administration wisely decided to remove that requirement. Unfortunately, the administration viewed the project as little more than foreign aid. __RAMOS can__ contribute significantly to __alleviat__ing the common __danger only if its__ scientific __results are__ fully __exploited. But__ scientific __exploitation funds__ for the RAMOS program __have been cut drastically__. The funding is less than a sixth of what a previous space-based sensor research program spent on sciencerelated activities. For instance, millions were spent on collecting data during a preliminary RAMOS aircraft experiment, but no money has been allocated for analyzing those data. If the trend continues, the United States will have squandered hundreds of millions of dollars for RAMOS and an excellent chance to improve its own long-term security.

RAMOS overcomes mistrust and spills over to further space cooperation
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

In May 2001, BMDO officials briefed congressional staffers that a __primary policy objective underlying the RAMOS program was to "develop__ with Russia__, mutually beneficial space technologies__ for defense and civilian applications__."__ BMDO officials further stated their intent that __RAMOS would "increase trust between__ the U.S. and Russia__", and would "establish groundwork for future cooperative efforts with the Russian Federation__." __Early__ successful scientific joint __experiments__ in space-based observations __suggested that__ such __objectives were realistic__. During the early phase of the program, the U.S. and Russia conducted the first joint space surveillance experiment in which observation data were exchanged between the two participants. Later, Russians flew an imaging radiometer on a U.S. satellite. The history of the program since 1998, however, belies the goal of cooperation. __Mistrust has become rife__ on both sides __and prospects for further cooperation,__ even during the current post-September 11th period of cooperation, __are growing dim.__
__One important factor underlying__ the growing __mistrust__ between US and Russian program officials __lies in__ the __instability__ which characterizes the weapons acquisition process. For decades, DoD officials have decried the "instability" which plagues the development and purchase of major weapon systems. Program plans and schedules are constantly revised; __funding levels are continually adjusted__ both within DoD and by the Congress; and program schedules are frequently delayed to reflect those changes. Often, political interests in the Congress serve as the source of instability. RAMOS has a history similar to many other DoD programs in those respects. __The__ important __factor distinguishing RAMOS from other defense programs,__ however__, is that RAMOS was conceived as a__n international __"partnership"__ between former antagonists undertaken in large part to build trust between them.
Since its inception, __the US__ RAMOS program and policy administrators have __repeatedly directed significant changes to RAMOS plans__, funds, and schedules __with__ __little input from__ their __Russian counterparts__. As a result, __Russian officials and scientists__ increasingly __question the validity of the "partnership" despite their government's__ repeated official statements __supporting__ the __RAMOS__ program. A brief summary of changes to program plans and objectives illustrates why.

RAMOS fosters a compromise on missile defense
Gildea 1 [Kerry, journalist covering Congress and the Pentagon, "RAMOS Still Best Plan For Near-term Missile Defense Cooperation With Russia, Kadish Says," Defense Daily, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_6712/is_15_212/ai_n28867459/]

The __most realistic option for cooperating with Russia on ballistic missile defense__ at this time __remains the Russian American Observation Satellite (RAMOS) program__, Air Force Lt. Gen. Ronald Kadish, director of the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, said last week.
BMDO and Russian counterparts are "close to success" in forming real cooperation on RAMOS after eight years of trying to do so, Kadish said Thursday at a breakfast sponsored by the National Defense University Foundation.
__Expanded missile defense cooperation has been hindered because "there's still some degree of a Cold War mentality__" in both the United States and Russia, Kadish said. However, he added, __there are individuals__ like himself __within__ the organizations of __both countries who want the cooperation on RAMOS__ and other potential cooperative efforts __to move forward.__
__"RAMOS could set an example," Kadish said, adding there could be offshoots to that program to do even closer cooperation in the missile defense arena in the future.__
"It depends on the relationship that emerges in this new strategic relationship," Kadish said. "I am optimistic."
Last year during markup of the FY '01 Defense Authorization Bill lawmakers debated whether to continue funding RAMOS. Some lawmakers thought there were more promising technological areas to pursue, but nonetheless supported RAMOS as a goodwill political gesture to Russia (Defense Daily, Sept. 27).
The RAMOS program has undergone a number of restructures and revised plans over the years. Just last year, BMDO restructured RAMOS into a two- satellite program. Under the revised proposal, Russia would build, launch and operate two essentially identical satellites that carry U.S. infrared sensors for in-space experimentation.
Some lawmakers have said they are not convinced the United States can provide infrared sensors for integration into the Russian-built satellites without compromising the technology or providing extensive technical assistance to Russia.
But, some missile defense proponents like Rep. Curt Weldon (R-Pa.), chairman of the House Armed Services Committee procurement panel, have repeatedly pushed to restore funding to RAMOS over the past several years. Weldon has argued __the program is essential if the United States and Russia are ever to reach a compromise on ballistic missile defense.__ He also more recently has pushed for a cooperative boost phase intercept technology program with Russia.

Russia supports the original agreement – any CP that revises the program doesn’t solve
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

<span class="Underline">The original RAMOS concept called for each country to develop its own observation satellite, both of which would be launched aboard Russian rockets into low earth orbit. The satellites, using short-, mid-, and long-wave infrared sensors, would observe and analyze various military and civilian scientific test objectives, including the firing of short-range test missiles such as SCUD missiles. Technological objectives included whether the polarization of solar glint could be used to mitigate short-wave infrared clutter for use by early warning satellites; whether missile emissions could be observed effectively against the earth's own background radiation; and whether infrared tracking could adequately observe a missile's flight pattern from below to above the horizon. The initial RAMOS plan also called for tests to observe and measure industrial effluents, volcanic plumes, and cyclonic storm activity. Under the original scheme, each nation would be responsible for constructing its own instrumentation and ground control station.</span>
<span class="Underline">In 1998, BMDO conducted a Concept Design Review of the RAMOS program and determined that the original two-satellite demonstration program did not provide the United States with sufficient additional missile defense technical benefits to warrant moving forward with the original program plan. BMDO concluded that the political benefit of cooperating with Russia in missile defense could be achieved through other, unspecified cooperative programs. In short, without consulting with their Russian partners, DoD unilaterally backed away from the original agreement and shifted the priority of the program from "cooperation" to "operational benefit" for US space assets. Given that the technical objectives of the program are basic elements of effective missile defense not yet fully solved by MDA, the shift in priorities suggests that DoD changed its position on RAMOS for political, not technical, reasons.</span>
<span class="Underline">The Department of Defense did not, however, abandon the program at that point. Instead, BMDO proposed to restructure it. After examining a broad range of alternatives, the DoD developed two alternative program plans on its own to discuss with the Russian RAMOS team. The first alternative proposed using infrared sensors mounted on either an American or Russian aircraft to measure and simulate mid- and long-wave infrared against atmospheric clutter against the earth's background. The second alternative was simply to provide funding to the Russians to design and test new sensors on their own. Representatives of DoD met with Russian officials in March 1999 to discuss the matter. Although the Russians did not reject those options as additions to the program, they reiterated their support for the initial two-satellite program plan to which, in their view, both Presidents Yeltsin and Clinton had agreed. When Prime Minister Primakov met with Vice President Gore in New York in March 1999, he reiterated Russian support for the two-satellite program.</span>
<span class="Underline">In July 2000, the Department of Defense proposed a revised plan to the Russians that returned to the two-satellite format of the initial program plan, but contained some important differences. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Jacques Gansler, proposed to the Russians that they be responsible for the design, construction and launch of both satellites and supporting ground station equipment. The US, he offered, would only be responsible for providing the basic sensors, the performance of sensor calibrations, and the integration of the sensors on to Russian satellites. The Russians have not formally accepted Dr. Gansler's proposal for the restructured program, a process that has doubtless been affected by Russian reactions to President Bush's announced intent for the U.S. to withdraw from the Anti-ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty.</span>

Only RAMOS can solve – pathfinder status and key capabilities
Humpherys et al 4 [T. Humpherys, V. Privalsky, Space Dynamics Laboratory, Utah State University; V. Sinelshchikov, V. Abramov, V. Misnik, Federal State Unitary Enterprise; A.T. Stair, I. Schiller, Visidyne, Inc; Nov 9, 2004, “Defense and Environmental Objectives for the Russian American Observational Satellites (RAMOS) Program,” http://www.sdl.usu.edu/downloads/papers/ramos-defense-environmental-objectives.pdf

__RAMOS is a unique program__ in many ways. __It has been the only cooperative space-based research program extant between the US Department of Defense and the Russian Ministry of Defense, it has enjoyed support at the highest levels of both governments, and it has brought scientists and engineers__ of the two countries __together__ for more than a decade of fruitful cooperative research. __In addition to__ its “__pathfinder” status, RAMOS has been the only program investigating__ the usefulness of simultaneous, multi-spectral __stereo-optical imaging__
__in the reduction of__ potential __false alarms__ inherent in early warning systems—a capability of crucial importance to the US, Russia and the entire international community of nations. Finally, __no other program is evaluating the utility of this__ unique simultaneous stereo-optical/multi-spectral __imagery in assessing hazardous environmental phenomena__ worldwide and predicting their evolution and potential impact on human health and safety.

RAMOS technology is key
Bartschi et al. 98 [Brent, David Burt, Glen Wada, A.T. Stair, J.W. Carpenter, Orr Shepherd, “Russian American Observation Satellites,” [[http://www.sdl.usu.edu/programs/ramos.pdf]], Presented at the 1st Annual International Small Satellite Conference and Exhibition, November 16-20]

ENVIRONMENTAL--- __RAMOS will demonstrate the feasibility of using defense__-related __assets for environmental monitoring__. It will demonstrate the value to meteorological forecasters and modelers of __real-time__, high-resolution __data in a stereo-optical__ or threedimensional __presentation__. This capability __will enable__ investigators to measure the altitude of cloud tops with a 10-fold __improvement in accuracy__ over current methods. Cloud fragment velocities, freezing point altitudes __and__ other similar measurements will greatly __enhance forecasters' ability to predict__ strength, speed and surface track of __severe storm systems,__ and will minimize the need for costly and dangerous aircraft over-flights. The benefits that can arise from these data--a better understanding of hurricane evolution and wind strength prediction, for instance--are incalculable. __A__ potential __payoff is the ability to predict__, worldwide, areas of potential __hurricane damage with sufficient accuracy and timeliness to enable orderly evacuations__ and save lives. The __ability to measure cloud elevations__ and velocities __will also make possible early warning of__ potentially __dangerous effluent clouds__, both man-made (e.g., industrial) or natural (e.g., volcanic). The __technology will greatly improve the ability to__ detect and track oil spills, to __monitor environmentally-critical__ ocean, lake, crop and forest __areas__ for signs of degradation, __and__ to __detect, track and map airborne contaminants__. Specific, environmentally-directed science objectives of the RAMOS program include the following:
Climatological/Meteorological Data: Three-dimensional processing with a vertical resolution of 100 meters will improve current approaches of inferring cloud heights. Current methods, which use LWIR radiometric data coupled with temperature/altitude soundings yield, at best, accuracy to within 1 or 2 km. Combined with on-board spectro-photometric measurements of cloud-top temperatures (± 1 K), __the RAMOS cloud-height measurements__ may accurately determine the intensities of tropical cyclones without the need for in-situ measurements from aircraft. Furthermore, direct measurements of both heights and horizontal velocities of cloud fragments will provide better information on the atmospheric wind field as a function of altitude; this information can be applied directly to numerical weather prediction. In combination with the on-board polarimetric capability, cloud-height measurements can determine the altitude at which cloud tops become glaciated. A __compilation of these data will provide statistical information relevant to global climate modeling.__ 
Parametric Effects: RAMOS will study the effects on space stereo imaging of varying the distance between the sensors in the orbit plane and the angle outside of the orbit plane. It will also study and evaluate the requirements for "real-time” (simultaneous) observations as opposed to stereo data obtained by viewing the scene later in time by the same satellite at a different point in its orbit. This will address the questions of time-varying geophysical phenomena driven by winds, atmospheric waves, etc.
Geophysical Events: The program will demonstrate the value of stereo-optical observation of unexpected ecological phenomena by viewing man-made environmental events, military conflicts, and geophysical events such as hurricanes, tornadoes and volcanoes. Stereooptical observations also provide the opportunity to probe at high resolution the threedimensional structure of the temporally and spatially-variable ozone layer to obtain additional insight into its underlying mechanisms.
Multispectral Measurements: __RAMOS will obtain multispectral infrared measurements of various environmentally-sensitive areas__ such as crops, forests, flood plains, oil spills, etc. __to help develop multispectral algorithms for large-area, distributed space-based sensors planned for the future.__

Disasters cause extinction
SID-AHMED 05 Mohamed, Al-Ahram Online, Jan 6-12, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]])

The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within living memory. What happened in South Asia is the ecological equivalent of 9/11. Ecological problems like global warming and climatic disturbances in general threaten to make our natural habitat unfit for human life. The __extinction of the species has become a__ very __real possibility__, whether by our own hand or __as____a result of__ natural __disasters of a__ much __greater magnitude__ than the Indian Ocean earthquake and the killer waves it spawned. Human civilisation has developed in the hope that Man will be able to reach welfare and prosperity on earth for everybody. But now things seem to be moving in the opposite direction, __exposing__ planet __Earth to the end of its role as a nurturing place for human life__. Today, __human conflicts__ have become less of a threat than the confrontation between [Humanity] Man and Nature. At least they __are less likely to bring about the end of the__ human __species__. The reactions of Nature as a result of its exposure to the onslaughts of human societies have become more important in determining the fate of the human species than any harm it can inflict on itself. Until recently, the threat Nature represented was perceived as likely to arise only in the long run, related for instance to how global warming would affect life on our planet. Such a threat could take decades, even centuries, to reach a critical level. This perception has changed following the __devastating____earthquake and tsunamis that hit the__ coastal __regions of South Asia__ and, less violently, of East Africa, on 26 December. This cataclysmic event has __underscored the vulnerability of our world before the wrath of Nature__ and shaken the sanguine belief that the end of the world is a long way away. __Gone are the days when we could comfort ourselves with the notion__ that the __extinction of the human race will not occur__ before a long-term future that will only materialise after millions of years and not affect us directly in any way. We are now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind. 

Solves extinction from disease
Ford et. al 11 (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, [[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]]) 

__The scientific community has a relative consensus that epidemic and pandemic disease risks will be exacerbated by environmental changes that destabilize weather patterns, change distribution of vectors, and increase transport and transmission risk. Predictive modeling may__ __lead to improved understanding and__ potentially __prevent future epidemic and pandemic disease.__ Many respiratory infections are well known as highly climate dependent or seasonal. Although we are not yet able to predict their incidence with great precision, we may well be able to do this in the future. Meningococcal meningitis (caused by Neisseria meningitidis) in Africa is probably the best known example. In the disease-endemic so-called meningitis belt (an area running across sub-Saharan Africa from Senegal to Ethiopia), this is classically a dry season disease, which ceases with the beginning of the rainy season, likely as a result of changes in host susceptibility (19). __Many__ other __infectious diseases show strong seasonality or association with climatic conditions__ (20). Perhaps one of the most interesting is influenza, which is thought of as a wintertime disease in temperate climates but shows both winter and summer peaks in subtropical and tropical regions (21). Although the reasons for seasonality are often poorly understood, __the close dependence of such diseases on climatic conditions suggests that these, too, are likely to be amenable to prediction by modeling and remote sensing__ (22). When we consider influenza, __it is hard not to think about the future risks from pandemic influenza__. Public health agencies in the United States and around the world are focusing on influenza preparedness, notably concerning influenza virus A subtype H5N1, which has captured attention because it causes severe disease and death in humans but as yet has demonstrated only very limited and inefficient human-to-human transmission. __The severity of the disease raises images of the 1918 influenza epidemic on an unimaginably vast scale if the virus were to adapt to more efficient human-to-human transmission. Can predictive modeling using satellite or other imaging of environmental variables help in prediction of future influenza pandemics?__ Xiangming Xiao at the University of New Hampshire was funded in 2006 by the National Institutes for Health to lead a multidisciplinary and multi-institutional team to use remote satellite imaging to track avian flu. __Xiao et al. have used satellite image–derived vegetation indices to map paddy rice agriculture in southern Asia__ (23). They believe that __a similar approach can be used in conjunction with the more traditional approach of analyzing bird migration patterns and poultry production__ (24,25) __to map potential hot spots of virus transmission__ (26). 

Original agreement key – anything else forces renegotiation
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

In his letter of July 14, 2000 to his Russian counterpart, Dr. Mikhailov, State-Secretary, First Minister of Defense, Dr. __Gansler stated the need to "underpin this (revised) program with a government-to-government agreement to underscore the commitment of both our governments__ to the program and outline our specific roles." __BMDO officials have interpreted__ Dr. __Gansler's words to mean that a new government-to-government agreement is required before the program could resume__ at full throttle. Consequently, __BMDO officials determined that the__ release of Congressionally-authorized and appropriated __funding__ for RAMOS __should be withheld pending a new agreement__. Of $30 million appropriated to fund Russian participation in the program for FY 2002, MDA has released only $2 million thus far this year.
__While BMDO withholds critical funding__ for the program, __the Russian side wrestles with__ the nature and the form of __a new__ government-to-government __agreement__. During meetings in Moscow between members of the Russian RAMOS team and representatives of the Center for Defense Information (CDI), __Russian__ scientists and __officials__ in the Ministries of Defense and Foreign Affairs __stated their view that the government-to-government agreement__ reached __between__ Presidents __Clinton and Yeltsin__ for the initial two-satellite RAMOS program __still pertained__ despite the adjustments proposed by Gansler in July 2000. __BMDO officials__, however, have __taken the view that those adjustments are sufficiently significant that a new agreement is warranted__.

Causes delay and rollback
Glass 2 [Wayne, former Senior Defense Policy Advisor for Senator Bingaman, senior advisor to CDI President Bruce Blair on a variety of projects, ranging from U.S. defense programs to Russian nuclear weapons security, “US and Russian Cooperation on missile defense: How likely?” http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm]

<span class="Underline">Given the disparity in viewpoints on this crucial issue, it is likely to take a significant amount of time for US and Russian officials to negotiate detailed terms of a new government-to-government agreement. Meantime, MDA </span>

<span class="Underline">could effectively kill the program by withholding funds the program needs to continue. During CDI's recent meetings with US and Russian program contract personnel, both sides indicated that the technical teams that have been working side by side on the program for a number of years will soon be dissolved if funding is not made available in coming weeks. The cooperation and trust built among Russian and American technical personnel could soon be lost if the teams are disassembled. Aside from the issue of funding availability, Congressional staff familiar with the program have indicated to CDI that MDA intends to formally discontinue the program this summer if a new government-to-government agreement is not signed in the near future.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]