[[toc]]
Aff cites/questions- jmichaelmanchester@gmail.com
Neg cites/questions- echen027@gmail.com
If we don't respond quickly, email: crazedstryker@gmail.com

If you are debating Como Park RT, email crazedstryker@gmail.com for a neg.
== == 
=***Silk Road Aff***= 
==**Harvard RR 1AC**== 
===Plan Text=== 
The President of the United States should issue a Presidential Directive to substantially increase United States investment, in the United States, for private sector transportation infrastructure development for the New Silk Road Initiative.


===Contention 1- Inherency=== 
2014 pull out is preventing private sector investment in the New Silk Road initiative now
Sholk 12 (Dena Sholk- universalnewswire analyst citing Thomas Sanderson- Co-director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Washington, D.C.-based Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), and Said Jawad- Former Afghan Ambassador to the U.S. and President of Capitalize LLC, April 25 2012, “Private investment key to success of 'New Silk Road' after 2014”, http://www.universalnewswires.com/centralasia/turkmenistan/viewstory.aspx?id=11883)
WASHINGTON, DC - Wednesday, April 25, 2012 - A few weeks ago, Central Asia Newswire discussed the potential benefits of harnessing the improvements in transportation infrastructure along the Northern Distribution Network (NDN) as the basis of the U.S. State Department’s regional development strategy termed the “New Silk Road” (NSR). The policy calls for a reduction in trade barriers, the harmonization of transportation systems, and the synchronization of customs policies and practices between the Central Asian states and Afghanistan. Upgrading and harmonizing Central and South Asia’s infrastructure requires significant private sector investment and expertise. Yet, with the proposed withdrawal of NATO’S ISAF (International Security Assistance Force) contingents from Afghanistan in 2014, and the reduced need for the Northern Distribution Network (NDN) as a military supply line, comes a key consideration for private firms in the region: what are the incentives to stay beyond 2014? According to Thomas Sanderson, Co-director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Washington, D.C.-based Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), it will be difficult to convince western firms to continue to operate in an unstable region without ISAF acting as “big daddy.” With political support, coupled with the willingness and ability to spend billions of dollars a week on the war in Afghanistan, ISAF has played this role in Central Asia. As such, ISAF military logistics planners and diplomatic personnel regularly engage with custom officials, local businesses, parliamentarians, and ministry personnel. Informally, members of ISAF forces developed personal relationships with local officials and suppliers, which helps promote U.S. diplomatic aims and strengthen ties along the NDN. While ISAF’s presence in Central Asia has not been devoid of problems, as evidenced by the tension between Kyrgyz and U.S. officials stationed at Manas Transit Center, its presence in the region has served as a vote of confidence to risk-averse investors entering an unknown marketplace. Sanderson notes that some firms will determine whether to stay in Central and South Asia beyond 2014 in part by projecting potential profits vs. the costs rendered by high-security requirements and other factors associated with conducting business in such a harsh environment. If the costs of maintaining a private security force, constructing rail and road linkages, and providing a secure supply of electricity and clean water are offset by revenue generated from mining, then firms will continue to invest in the region, Sanderson says as an example. The few firms with the operational capacity and cash to absorb such costs, in addition to providing under-the-table bribes, and still turn a profit are state-sponsored firms from China and India. Chinese companies in particular have the financial backing of the state and are therefore able to engage in high-risk business decisions that would otherwise frighten the private sector, the analyst says. Once ISAF is out, Chinese firms possessing a dominant market position will assume the role of “big daddy”, Sanderson says. As such, Chinese firms, with their style of vertical management and adherence to different standards of business practices and ethics, will play the role of an authoritarian enabler, not a disciplinarian. “Basic economic and geopolitical value judgments will determine investment decisions,” Sanderson asserts. Firms will measure costs against profits. While providing an important boost in foreign direct investment (FDI) for the region’s economies, Chinese investments will wreak “steep environmental and social costs” on local populations, he adds. Quantifying the Costs and Challenges Without ISAF, and in particular the U.S., there is no player in the region capable of ensuring adherence to good business standards as well as safeguarding assets. Former Afghan Ambassador to the U.S. and President of Capitalize LLC, Said Jawad, echoed Sanderson’s sentiments in an interview, noting that western firms are more responsive to public pressures about their business ethics, interactions with local communities, and environmental practices than are their Chinese or Indian counterparts. “We want Western firms who have to adhere to good practices such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. This is good for Afghanistan,” Jawad noted. Similarly, most Afghans do not care about the race of the investors’ skin or the flag that is flying, but are concerned with how investments affect their employment opportunities and quality of water, he added. Convincing cautious, risk-averse firms to invest in Afghanistan’s immediate post-conflict environment is no easy task. For investors, the main concerns are access to market, security, transport and logistics. “The departure of ISAF forces in 2014 is not the determining factor for firms contemplating investing in Afghanistan,” Jawad adds. “Investment calculations account for the long-term political, institutional, and security vision for Afghanistan – how stable will it be in 2014?” That question will also weigh heavily on the minds of company leaders looking to expand into the Central Asian market. Infrastructure vs. Institutions Despite improvements in regional infrastructure, the intransigence of authoritarian regimes in resisting regional coordination stands in the way of the NSR becoming reality. Constructing infrastructure is one thing, but obtaining the support and commitment of political leaders at the highest levels of power to adjust domestic trade and customs policies in order to promote regional cooperation is quite another. Both Sanderson and former Ambassador Jawad note the significant political barriers to regional cooperation. In order to overcome the numerous “political, historical, personal” issues between the Central Asian regimes to implement the NSR, Ambassador Jawad says there is a need to focus on transit corridors rather than on broader policy themes. The emergence of trade and transportation corridors will satisfy the demands of private investors seeking greater market access without getting bogged down in the technicalities and complexities of Central Asian politics, he says. One way in which the NDN has helped establish the groundwork for the NSR is through the “backhaul-2” (BH2) concept established by the Geneva-based International Road Transport Union (IRU), which would establish an independent fleet of 1000-1500 trucks to transport U.S. army goods from Europe and Asia to Afghanistan, and vice versa. According to an IRU Background Paper obtained by Central Asia Newswire, state-controlled management companies or public-private partnerships (PPPs) would be established to manage the BH2 routes under the control of auditing representatives designated by the U.S. Government. These management companies would then lease Russian KAMAZ trucks to transport goods to and from Ulyanovsk to Afghanistan.

===Contention 2- Instability=== 
The plan is key to stabilize Afghanistan and Central Asia- 2014 pullout makes economic growth the only solution
Safi 12 (Mariam Safi is Insight on Conflict's Local Correspondent for Afghanistan. Mariam is an International Relations advisor and expert on Afghanistan, holding key research interests in state building, security and conflict management, May 28, “New Silk Road: stabilising Afghanistan post-2014”, http://www.insightonconflict.org/2012/05/stabilising-afghanistan-post-2014/)
“We believe a stable and prosperous Afghanistan can only be envisioned in a stable and prosperous region,” stated Afghan President Hamid Karzai. Speaking at the second Bonn Conference on Afghanistan in December 2011, this statement correctly asserts that stability in Afghanistan and stability in the region, are two mutually-reinforcing pillars. Thus the future of the region is dependent upon Afghanistan’s ability to meet its state-building measures and move beyond what has been called the decade of ‘transition,’ to the decade of ‘transformation’ (between the years 2014 and 2024). The prospects for a stable and prosperous Afghanistan, following the withdrawal of NATO-Isaf forces in the post-2014 period, will largely depend upon Afghanistan’s ability to sustain economic growth, provide goods and services to its people, reduce its dependence upon international aid, and realise its natural resource deposits. Thus an Afghanistan connected to the South and Central Asian region through the revitalisation of the ancient Silk Road, will not only help re-establish Afghanistan as a land-bridge, but also help sustain its economy by facilitating and connecting the transit of goods and energy across the region.
It’s reverse casual- instability is inevitable absent the aff
Starr and Kuchins 10 - PhD, research professor at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, and Kuchins PhD, director of the CSIS Russia and Eurasia Program, S. Frederick and Andrew et. al., Starr is the founder and Chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute, Ph.D. in history from Princeton, Kuchins currently teaches at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) and has also taught at Georgetown and Stanford Universities, Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins, May, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “T he Key To Success in Afghanistan: A Modern Silk Road Strategy”, ciao)
The proposed transport-based strategy will mitigate the negative effects of the downturn that will inevitably accompany the winding down of the NDN. If the U.S. exercises the needed leadership, the end of NDN could even become a boon for Afghan and regional logistics businesses. Conversely, if the opportunity offered by the Modern Silk Road is ignored, everything the United States will have achieved in Afghanistan will be short-lived, and instability will likely remain a permanent presence in the heart of Eurasia.



Afghanistan instability causes war, specifically- Indo-Pak and US-Russia
Carafano ’10 (Con: Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe By JAMES JAY CARAFANO Saturday, Jan. 2, 2010 James Jay Carafano is a senior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation and directs its Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies)
There’s little chance Kabul will become Saigon 1968. If the war in Afghanistan starts going south for allied forces, President Obama will probably quit rather than risk getting bogged down. President Lyndon B. Johnson considered Vietnam more a distraction than a national mission, yet he ramped up the troop commitment all the same. In 1968, the North Vietnamese launched a major offensive during the Tet holiday. They lost that battle. Badly! But the fact that they were able to mount such a large-scale offensive gave many Americans—including Walter Cronkite—the impression that the war wasn’t winnable. As “the U.S. is bogged down” became the common view, Johnson’s presidency fell to ashes. Not much chance Obama will go that route. If the violence skyrockets next year and it looks as though the president’s ambitious objectives can’t be met, Afghanistan could look a lot more like Vietnam in 1973. U.S. forces withdrew. Our abandoned ally was soon overrun. South Vietnam became a gulag; Cambodia sprouted the killing fields; life in Laos was just plain lousy. By 1979, the Sino-Vietnamese war erupted. We can expect similar results if Obama’s Afghan strategy fails and he opts to cut and run. Most forget that throwing South Vietnam to the wolves made the world a far more dangerous place. The Soviets saw it as an unmistakable sign that America was in decline. They abetted military incursions in Africa, the Middle East, southern Asia and Latin America. They went on a conventional- and nuclear-arms spending spree. They stockpiled enough smallpox and anthrax to kill the world several times over. State-sponsorship of terrorism came into fashion. Osama bin Laden called America a “paper tiger.” If we live down to that moniker in Afghanistan, odds are the world will get a lot less safe. Al-Qaida would be back in the game. Regional terrorists would go after both Pakistan and India—potentially triggering a nuclear war between the two countries. Sensing a Washington in retreat, Iran and North Korea could shift their nuclear programs into overdrive, hoping to save their failing economies by selling their nuclear weapons and technologies to all comers. Their nervous neighbors would want nuclear arms of their own. The resulting nuclear arms race could be far more dangerous than the Cold War’s two-bloc standoff. With multiple, independent, nuclear powers cautiously eyeing one another, the world would look a lot more like Europe in 1914, when precarious shifting alliances snowballed into a very big, tragic war. The list goes on. There is no question that countries such as Russia, China and Venezuela would rethink their strategic calculus as well. That could produce all kinds of serious regional challenges for the United States. Our allies might rethink things as well. Australia has already hiked its defense spending because it can’t be sure the United States will remain a responsible security partner. NATO might well fall apart. Europe could be left with only a puny EU military force incapable of defending the interests of its nations.



Limited Indo-Pak war causes extinction
Toon et al 7 – Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences @ University of Colorado – ‘7 [Owen B. Toon, Alan Robock (Professor of Environmental Sciences @ Rutgers University), Richard P. Turco (Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences @ UCLA, Charles Bardeen (Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences @ University of Colorado), Luke Oman (Professor of of Earth and Planetary Sciences @ Johns Hopkins University), Georgiy L. Stenchikov (Professor of Environmental Sciences @ Rutgers University), “NUCLEAR WAR: Consequences of Regional-Scale Nuclear Conflicts,” Science, 2 March 2007, Vol. 315. no. 5816, pp. 1224 – 1225]
The world may no longer face a serious threat of global nuclear warfare, but regional conflicts continue. Within this milieu, acquiring nuclear weapons has been considered a potent political, military, and social tool (1-3). National ownership of nuclear weapons offers perceived international status and insurance against aggression at a modest financial cost. Against this backdrop, we provide a quantitative assessment of the potential for casualties in a regional-scale nuclear conflict, or a terrorist attack, and the associated environmental impacts (4, 5).¶ Eight nations are known to have nuclear weapons. In addition, North Korea may have a small, but growing, arsenal. Iran appears to be seeking nuclear weapons capability, but it probably needs several years to obtain enough fissionable material. Of great concern, 32 other nations--including Brazil, Argentina, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan--have sufficient fissionable materials to produce weapons (1, 6). A de facto nuclear arms race has emerged in Asia between China, India, and Pakistan, which could expand to include North Korea, South Korea, Taiwan, and Japan (1). In the Middle East, a nuclear confrontation between Israel and Iran would be fearful. Saudi Arabia and Egypt could also seek nuclear weapons to balance Iran and Israel. Nuclear arms programs in South America, notably in Brazil and Argentina, were ended by several treaties in the 1990s (6). We can hope that these agreements will hold and will serve as a model for other regions, despite Brazil's new, large uranium enrichment facilities.¶ Nuclear arsenals containing 50 or more weapons of low yield [15 kilotons (kt), equivalent to the Hiroshima bomb] are relatively easy to build (1, 6). India and Pakistan, the smallest nuclear powers, probably have such arsenals, although no nuclear state has ever disclosed its inventory of warheads (7). Modern weapons are compact and lightweight and are readily transported (by car, truck, missile, plane, or boat) (8). The basic concepts of weapons design can be found on of the Internet. The only serious obstacle to constructing a bomb is the limited availability of purified fissionable fuels.There are many political, economic, and social factors that could trigger a regional-scale nuclear conflict, plus many scenarios for the conduct of the ensuing war. We assumed (4) that the densest population centers in each country--usually in megacities--are attacked. We did not evaluate specific military targets and related casualties. We considered a nuclear exchange involving 100 weapons of 15-kt yield each, that is, ~0.3% of the total number of existing weapons (4). India and Pakistan, for instance, have previously tested nuclear weapons and are now thought to have between 109 and 172 weapons of unknown yield (9). Fatalities were estimated by means of a standard population database for a number of countries that might be targeted in a regional conflict (see figure, above). For instance, such an exchange between India and Pakistan (10) could produce about 21 million fatalities--about half as many as occurred globally during World War II. The direct effects of thermal radiation and nuclear blasts, as well as gamma-ray and neutron radiation within the first few minutes of the blast, would cause most casualties. Extensive damage to infrastructure, contamination by long-lived radionuclides, and psychological trauma would likely result in the indefinite abandonment of large areas leading to severe economic and social repercussions. Fires ignited by nuclear bursts would release copious amounts of light-absorbing smoke into the upper atmosphere. If 100 small nuclear weapons were detonated within cities, they could generate 1 to 5 million tons of carbonaceous smoke particles (4), darkening the sky and affecting the atmosphere more than major volcanic eruptions like Mt. Pinatubo (1991) or Tambora (1815) (5). Carbonaceous smoke particles are transported by winds throughout the atmosphere but also induce circulations in response to solar heating. Simulations (5) predict that such radiative-dynamical interactions would loft and stabilize the smoke aerosol, which would allow it to persist in the middle and upper atmosphere for a decade. Smoke emissions of 100 low-yield urban explosions in a regional nuclear conflict would generate substantial global-scale climate anomalies, although not as large as in previous "nuclear winter" scenarios for a full-scale war (11, 12). However, indirect effects on surface land temperatures, precipitation rates, and growing season lengths (see figure, below) would be likely to degrade agricultural productivity to an extent that historically has led to famines in Africa, India, and Japan after the 1783-1784 Laki eruption (13) or in the northeastern United States and Europe after the Tambora eruption of 1815 (5). Climatic anomalies could persist for a decade or more because of smoke stabilization, far longer than in previous nuclear winter calculations or after volcanic eruptions. Studies of the consequences of full-scale nuclear war show that indirect effects of the war could cause more casualties than direct ones, perhaps eliminating the majority of the world's population (11, 12). Indirect effects such as damage to transportation, energy, medical, political, and social infrastructure could be limited to the combatant nations in a regional war. However, climate anomalies would threaten the world outside the combat zone. The predicted smoke emissions and fatalities per kiloton of explosive yield are roughly 100 times those expected from estimates for full-scale nuclear attacks with high-yield weapons (4).

Risk of accidental exchange between the US and Russia over external crises is still high and risks extinction
Barrett et al. 1/6 (Anthony M. Barrett- Global Catastrophic Risk Institute, Seth D. Baum- Center for Research on Environmental Decisions, Columbia University, Kelly R. Hostetler- Department of Geography, Pennsylvania State University, 2013, “Analyzing and Reducing the Risks of Inadvertent Nuclear War Between the United States and Russia”, http://sethbaum.com/ac/fc_NuclearWar.pdf)
War involving significant fractions of the U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals, which are by far the largest of any nations, could have globally catastrophic effects such as severely reducing food production for years, 1,2,3,4,5,6 potentially leading to collapse of modern civilization worldwide and even the extinction of humanity. 7,8,9,10 Nuclear war between the US and Russia could occur by various routes, including accidental or unauthorized launch; deliberate first attack by one nation; and inadvertent attack. In an accidental or unauthorized launch or detonation, system safeguards or procedures to maintain control over nuclear weapons fail in such a way that a nuclear weapon or missile launches or explodes without direction from leaders. In a deliberate first attack, the attacking nation decides to attack based on accurate information about the state of affairs. In an inadvertent attack, the attacking nation mistakenly concludes that it is under attack and launches nuclear weapons in what it believes is a counterattack. 11,12 (Brinkmanship strategies incorporate elements of all of the above, in that they involve deliberate manipulation of the risk of otherwise unauthorized or inadvertent attack as part of coercive threats that “leave something to chance,” i.e., “taking steps that raise the risk that the crisis will go out of control and end in a general nuclear exchange.” 13,14 ) Over the years, nuclear strategy was aimed primarily at minimizing risks of intentional attack through development of deterrence capabilities, though numerous measures were also taken to reduce probabilities of accidents, unauthorized attack, and inadvertent war. 15,16,17 For purposes of deterrence, both U.S. and Soviet/Russian forces have maintained significant capabilities to have some forces survive a first attack by the other side and to launch a subsequent counter-attack. However, concerns about the extreme disruptions that a first attack would cause in the other side’s forces and command-and-control capabilities led to both sides’development of capabilities to detect a first attack and launch a counter-attack before suffering damage from the first attack. 18,19,20 Many people believe that with the end of the Cold War and with improved relations between the United States and Russia, the risk of East-West nuclear war was significantly reduced. 21,22 However, it has also been argued that inadvertent nuclear war between the United States and Russia has continued to present a substantial risk. 23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33 While the United States and Russia are not actively threatening each other with war, they have remained ready to launch nuclear missiles in response to indications of attack. 34,35,36,37,38 False indicators of nuclear attack could be caused in several ways. First, a wide range of events have already been mistakenly interpreted as indicators of attack, including weather phenomena, a faulty computer chip, wild animal activity, and control-room training tapes loaded at the wrong time. 39 Second, terrorist groups or other actors might cause attacks on either the United States or Russia that resemble some kind of nuclear attack by the other nation by actions such as exploding a stolen or improvised nuclear bomb, 40,41,42 especially if such an event occurs during a crisis between the United States and Russia. 43 A variety of nuclear terrorism scenarios are possible. 44 Al Qaeda has sought to obtain or construct nuclear weapons and to use them against the United States. 45,46,47 Other methods could involve attempts to circumvent nuclear weapon launch control safeguards or exploit holes in their security. 48,49 It has long been argued that the probability of inadvertent nuclear war is significantly higher during U.S.-Russian crisis conditions, 50,51,52,53 with the Cuban Missile Crisis being a prime historical example of such a crisis. 54,55,56,57,58 It is possible that U.S.-Russian relations will significantly deteriorate in the future, increasing nuclear tensions. 59 There are a variety of ways for a third party to raise tensions between the United States and Russia, making one or both nations more likely to misinterpret events as attacks. 60,61,62,63

That is particularly true in the context of instability in the region
Schorr, 1 - analyst with the Insitute for Policy Studies (Ira, The Record, 10/14, lexis)
While these actions helped the nuclear superpowers back away from using weapons of mass destruction at a precarious time, it's sobering to note that the United States and Russia are still courting nuclear disaster. Despite no longer being strategic foes they still maintain thousands of nuclear weapons on hair-trigger alert -- poised for a quick launch. This is a threat that no missile defense system will ever be able to protect us from. This process of keeping nuclear weapons on a hair-trigger means that leaders on both sides have just minutes to assess whether a warning of an attack is real or false. And while the threats we faced during the Cold War came from Soviet strength -- the danger today comes more from Russia's weakness. For example, Russia's troubled economy has led to the profound decay of its early warning satellite system. A fire last May that destroyed a critical facility used to control Russian warning satellites has made things even worse. "Russia has completely lost its space-based early warning capabilities," says Bruce Blair of the Center for Defense Information. "In essence, the country's ability to tell a false alarm from a real warning has been nearly crippled. " False alarms on both sides have already brought us to the brink of nuclear war. What will happen now if there is a war in the volatile neighborhood of Central Asia -- a region that includes nuclear powers India, Pakistan, and Russia? Former Sen. Sam Nunn brought the point home in a recent speech: "The events of Sept. 11 gave President Bush very little time to make a very difficult decision -- whether to give orders to shoot down a commercial jetliner filled with passengers. Our current nuclear posture in the United States and Russia could provide even less time for each president to decide on a nuclear launch that could destroy our nations. " Nunn called on Presidents Bush and Putin to "stand-down" their nuclear forces to "reduce toward zero the risk of accidental launch or miscalculation and provide increased launch decision time for each president. " In the spirit of the courageous steps his father took to decrease the nuclear threat 10 years ago, President Bush should take action now to remove nuclear weapons from hair-trigger alert. This would send a signal to the world that in this volatile time, the U.S. is serious about preventing the use of nuclear weapons.

===Contention 3 China=== 
Absent US investment, China will dominate Afghanistan’s mineral deposits and create political instability
Gusvosky 9/30 (Dina- CNN, CNBC, and Examiner staff writer- cites Jeffrey Shaw- U.S. Government contracting consultant and adviser, responsible for setting up a company between 2002-2004 that was intended to help the Afghans develop a mining industry AND Steve LeVine- a Schwartz Fellow at the New America Foundation and Washington correspondent for Quartz, 2012, “Politics¶ MAINDEMOCRATREPUBLICANINDEPENDENTELECTIONS 2012¶ Reaping the benefits of Afghanistan's resources”, http://www.examiner.com/article/reaping-the-benefits-of-afghanistan-s-resources)
The US troop surge in Afghanistan has come to an end. And while there's much debate about whether or not this is something to truly celebrate, especially given the heavy troop presence that will remain in the war torn nation, some of the discussion has now shifted to Afghanistan's future without the United States and NATO.¶ Though security will be the most important element in defining Afghanistan’s future, economic development is not far behind--if not directly intertwined.¶ Many political experts, citing various reports, have brought up the country's vast natural resources and the possibility of developing a lucrative mining industry in Afghanistan.¶ According to a recent article in the NY Times:¶ “— If there is a road to a happy ending in Afghanistan, much of the path may run underground: in the trillion-dollar reservoir of natural resources — oil, gold, iron ore, copper, lithium and other minerals — that has brought hopes of a more self-sufficient country, if only the wealth can be wrested from blood-soaked soil.”¶ Aside from the ethnic conflict that is likely to ensue if any such potential to make a large sum of money comes to fruition, there are other factors that should be considered when it comes to determining whether or not developing this industry would even be possible.¶ Several reports, including from the World Bank, have validated that Afghanistan does have good quality resources. Not only 'steel quality coal,' but precious and semi-precious stones such as rubies, emeralds, and lapis were also found.¶ U.S. Government contracting consultant and adviser Jeffrey Shaw was responsible for setting up a company between 2002-2004 that was intended to help the Afghans develop a mining industry.¶ But the barriers proved to be too much and the proposed company's file was closed in 2006.¶ According to Shaw there is very little to no "government"-level commitment to the process,¶ There are no roads or power or any reasonable infrastructure to exploit the resources. The returns would have to be substantial before private investors commit the capital to such infrastructure creation. An additional barrier is the sheer corruption of the Afghan society and the Karzai government. As a case in point, the Government of Canada had allocated a couple hundred million dollars to the construction of a power generating dam project [in 2005]. After it was announced, one of the Karzai brothers bought up all of the land surrounding the dam and the site itself, so that the Canadians would have to buy it back from him (at many multiples of price) before the dam could be built. The project was dropped, but this is typical of what any development project is dealing with and it is not just the Karzai family, it is every tribal leader at any corner of the society.¶ Shaw advises the United States not to consider investing in Afghanistan in this way; however, China is already looking for ways to reap the benefits from this potential opportunity.¶ They [CHINA] will take complete control of what they acquire in Afghanistan and they will make the rules for the locals to live by, or the locals will not be allowed to play. The chiefs will be paid to keep the people in line and the Chinese will start digging. End of story. They have none of the "nation-building" illusions that the West feels the need to play by, but they do recognize the value of the raw material.¶ Shaw, like others who understand the inner workings of the Afghan government and society, say that China will step in with their own workers, pay the Afghans off by buying the land and mineral rights from them, and leave behind money for the tribal elders but no actual industry that could potentially help Afghanistan’s economy in the long term.¶ Steve LeVine, a Schwartz Fellow at the New America Foundation and Washington correspondent for Quartz, also believes that if China were to try to take advantage of these resources in Afghanistan, it would be a short-term vs. a long-term investment.¶ “From two decades of watching and covering the country, I feel confident saying that China will not end up dominating Afghanistan…Perhaps its territorial notions will expand over time, but I found no one who suggested that China wishes to play a security role in Afghanistan or Central Asia.”¶ As far as the main barriers towards developing this industry, Levine says:¶ I do not think that these resources are driving ethnic conflict. But I do think that already-existing ethnic conflict can be the main force that hinders their development.¶ Whereas the United States would most likely attempt to create a lasting industry in Afghanistan, China, like other investors, probably realizes that in order to make a substantial profit, it is better to try to do so without any strings attached.
Federal government investment is necessary to disperse resources globally – solves energy insecurity
Muzalevsky 11/1 (Roman Muzalevsky- asia times staff writer, works for iJet Intelligent Risk Systems Inc, focusing on global and regional security analysis. He is also a contributing analyst on Eurasian affairs and security at Jamestown Foundation and a contributing analyst on the North America, Russia and Central Asia, and globalization desks at the geopolitical and security consultancy Wikistrat, 2012, “US Silk Road Plan Spins Fragile Thread”, [[http://atimes.com/atimes/Central_Asia/NK01Ag01.html|http://atimes.com//atimes/Central_Asia/NK01Ag01.html]])
*NSRS=New Silk Road Strategy
Washington's role as a facilitator in some of these projects has been instrumental. But to solidify this progress and have other actors follow the NSRS to achieve the declared goals and promote its geostrategic interests along the way, the US needs concrete plans, development initiatives, and investment projects based on direct involvement of the US government and business. ¶ A beefed-up NSRS would pursue important outcomes that are critical for enduring regional security and American interests in the long run. Such a strategy would allow the US to promote economic synergies among actors that view Central Asia as a buffer zone and platform for geopolitical contests in Eurasia and the world. In a region surrounded by at least four nuclear powers, with Iran being the potential fifth, this is a critical task. ¶ Such an NSRS would also enable the US to structure its regional efforts to shape the global order because Central Asia sees a growing involvement of the world's two potentially largest economies, China and India, and a strong push by Russia for economic and security integration in the post-Soviet space. ¶ It would help Washington channel the development the region's immense energy resources. The abundance of these and the global challenge of resource scarcity, and the issues of a rising global population and middle class, especially as driven by China and India, make Washington's enduring regional engagement an imperative for Eurasian energy security and global stability. <span style="font-family: SimSun;">¶</span>Such a strategy would further help Afghanistan and Pakistan, both dependent on foreign aid, to start relying on private-sector-led growth much faster and encourage more rapid democratic change via enhanced trade and economic linkages in Eurasia. ¶ In the process, the US needs the help of other actors, not least the European Union and India. That US Secretary of State Hilary Clinton announced the launch of the NSRS last year in Chennai, India, is noteworthy. For all its flaws, India is considered a democracy that boasts a rapidly emerging economy. This summer, New Delhi announced its "Connect Central Asia" policy seeking to "glue" Central and South Asia via Afghanistan. India's economic capabilities are instrumental and would add "weight" to the NSRS and the US evolving strategic relationship with India. ¶ Silk Road related initiatives should help Central and South Asian countries mitigate, if not resolve in the short run, the many regional security challenges through and beyond 2014. The NSRS is one such crucial initiative, which can promote US interests while contributing to development of Central and South Asia. ¶ However, this initiative risks remaining a vision without a detailed plan based on the direct involvement of Washington. If the US is serious about leading the world, it needs to remain engaged in Central Asia, which serves as a springboard for regional and global ambitions of China, India, and Russia, among other actors. The US must turn itself from a facilitator into a direct participator.



2 scenarios:
First is Market Domination- The perception of a shortage triggers the US to crackdown on China, risks protectionism
Parthemore 11 (Christine Parthemore, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), where she directs the Natural Security Program and the Natural Security Blog, prolific author, former journalist writing for The Washington Post, Roll Call, and the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, MA from Georgetown University's Security Studies Program, June 2011, “ELEMENTS OF SEUCURITY: MITIGATING THE RISKS OF U.S. DEPENDENCE ON CRITICAL MINERALS,” Center for a New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore_1.pdf]])
Minerals are a subject of much contention. On one hand, the United States remains less prepared for supply disruptions, price spikes and trade disagreements related to the global minerals trade than most experts realize. On the other hand, public concern over reliable access to the minerals required in key sectors of the U.S. economy, in particular those needed to produce military equipment, is growing. Too frequently, however, such concerns are based on inaccurate assumptions. A sober and informed analysis suggests there are real vulnerabilities, which place critical national security and foreign policy interests at risk. In worst-case scenarios, supplies of minerals that the United States does not produce domestically may be disrupted, creating price spikes and lags in delivery. Even short of major supply disruptions, supplier countries can exert leverage over the United States by threatening to cut off certain key mineral supplies. The United States may also lose ground strategically if it continues to lag in managing mineral issues, as countries that consider assured access to minerals as far more strategically important are increasingly setting the rules for trade in this area. China’s rising dominance is at the heart of this growing public debate. Its 2010 cutoff of rare earth elements2 – a unique set of minerals that are difficult to process yet critical to many hightech applications – attracted particular attention. After Japan detained a Chinese trawler captain over a skirmish in the East China Sea, Japanese companies reported weeks of stalled shipments of rare earths from China amid rumors of an official embargo. This may sound like a minor trade dispute, but China currently controls production of about 95 percent of the world’s rare earths, which are critical to building laser-guidance systems for weapons, refining petroleum and building wind turbines. Coinciding with possessing this incredible leverage over the rest of the world, China has also reduced its export quotas for these minerals. For its part, the Chinese government contended that it did not put any formal export embargo in place, and that its plans to reduce exports simply reflect the need to meet growing domestic demand for rare earths. Japan-China relations experienced further strain in their already tense relationship. In the United States, many reporters, policy analysts and decision makers did not foresee this challenge. Feeling blindsided, some in the United States characterized the situation in a manner that demonized China rather than using the opportunity to better understand the true nature of U.S. supply chain vulnerabilities. The 2010 rare earths case and others are increasing interest in critical minerals among U.S. policymakers. Congress held hearings on the strategic importance of minerals between 2007 and 2010, and the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act required DOD to study and report on its dependence on rare earth elements for weapons, communications and other systems.3 During a 2009 hearing on minerals and military readiness, Republican Representative Randy Forbes of Virginia called minerals, “one of those things that no one really talks about or worries about until something goes wrong. It’s at that point – the point where we don’t have the steel we need to build MRAPs [Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles] or the rhenium we need to build a JSF [Joint Strike Fighter] engine that the stockpile becomes critically important.”4 In October 2010, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton stated that it would be “in our interests commercially and strategically” to find additional sources of supply for rare earth minerals, and stated that China’s recent cuts to rare earth exports “served as a wakeup call that being so dependent on only one source, disruption could occur for natural disaster reasons or other kinds of events could intervene.”5 In January 2011, Sen. Mark Begich, D-Alaska, Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, and Rep. Mike Coffman, R-Colo., wrote a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates expressing concern for minerals required for producing defense equipment such as Joint Direct Attack Munitions (JDAMs), which stated, “Clearly, rare earth supply limitations present a serious vulnerability to our national security. Yet early indications are that DOD has dismissed the severity of the situation to date.”6 Additionally, the Department of Energy (DOE) launched a multiyear effort to explore potential vulnerabilities in supply chains for minerals that will be critical to four distinct areas of energy technology innovation. While concern is growing, the media and policymakers often focus too narrowly on what may seem the most compelling indicators – usually import dependence or scarcity – in prescribing solutions to reduce U.S. vulnerabilities, in particular to supply disruptions in critical minerals such as rare earths. This focus is sparking protectionist attitudes, with some worrying that import dependence poses an inherent risk to the U.S. economy. Discussion of minerals also frequently focuses on supply scarcity and resource depletion in absolute terms. However, both the rhenium and rare earth minerals disruptions of the past five years were triggered by deliberate decisions made by political leaders to leverage their positions of strength, not by market forces, disorder or scarcities of these minerals. Countries often revert to hoarding, pressuring suppliers and otherwise behaving as if scarcities are present even when they are not, based solely on concerns that shortages are likely in the near term. In fact, neither scarcity nor import dependence alone is sufficient to signal vulnerability, and a combination of factors including concentration of suppliers is most often required for mineral issues to become security or foreign policy problems. This report, based on two years of research, site visits and discussions with stakeholders, explores how the supply, demand and use of minerals can impair U.S. foreign relations, economic interests and defense readiness. It examines cases of five individual minerals – lithium, gallium, rhenium, tantalum and niobium – and rare earth elements, such as neodymium, samarium and dysprosium, as a sixth group in order to show the complexity of addressing these concerns. Each of these minerals is critical for defense technologies and U.S. economic growth plans. They share characteristics with minerals that have caused important political or economic concerns for the United States in the past. Additionally, lithium is frequently cited in the media and in discussions of how clean energy supply chains are critical to meeting America’s future economic, energy and environmental goals. Within the past five years, two of these cases – rhenium and rare earth minerals – have involved supply disruptions or important threats of disruptions for the United States and its allies. Each of these minerals will require federal government attention in the coming years. Pg. 6-10


Shortages and crackdowns risk war – countries consider rare earths indispensible
Hinten-Nooijen 10 (Dr. Annemarie Hinten-Nooijen, Professor of Economics at Tilburg University in the Netherlands, 3/25/10, “Rare minerals – The treasures of a sustainable economy”, [[http://www.tilburguniversity.edu/nl/over-tilburg-university/cultuur-en-sport/cwl/publicaties/beschouwingen/minerals/]])
Driving a hybrid car, using energy from wind turbines or solar panels. That are choices to contribute to the transition to a sustainable economy. Sustainability is the spearhead of many western policy plans. It is regarded as the solution to get out of the crisis. But ironically, the raw materials that are needed for hybrid cars and wind turbines, for our technological industry as a whole, are not that sustainable. Necessarily required minerals like neodymium and indium are rare. And they are not available in the west, China has almost all of them. And having this position of power, China wants to use it. That is about strategy. The high-tech raw materials play a central part in the highly industrialised high-wage countries to survive the global competition by technological excellence. Will future wars be about minerals instead of oil, territories or water? THE BONE MARROW OF MODERN ECONOMY Minerals are an indispensable material pillar of our current economies and societies. They are the natural product of geological processes and occur in the crust of the planet. Only a fraction of the known minerals exists in greater quantities. Some of these are mined, refined and processed; are broken up into their elemental components, which are recombined into different types of materials. These materials are used to manufacture products that form the backbone of our modern economies: from LCD displays to fighter jets, from smart phones to electric cars. Without minerals, industrial society and modern technology would be inconceivable. That seems unbelievable, because we hardly hear or read about them in the media - whereas several research reports have been published recently. But imagine that by reading this article on printed paper or at your computer screen, minerals like nickel, chromium, molybdenum, gallium, selenium, aluminium, silicon and manganese were needed! And all these elements have to be first extracted from minerals, which in turn need to be mined from the earth's crust. CHINA'S GREEN DEAL In recent years, the world economy has grown enormously, and many new high-tech applications have been made. Moreover, the demand for minerals has exploded. Mining tried to meet the demand. A global competition between countries and companies over rare mineral resources started. Prices have shot up, countries have created strategic stockpiles or imposed export restrictions in order to secure supplies of these valuable resources. Mineral scarcity concerning the industry seems to be more of an economic issue than an issue set by limited resources. Minerals are getting evermore difficult to find and costly to extract - while they are the key to advanced sustainable technologies. Talking about sustainability seems not talking about China, because China is still building many polluting coal-fired power plants, and the social circumstances there are poor. However, recent developments also show progress concerning sustainability. And in a country like China these developments go faster than in many western democracies. Where we in the west talk and dawdle, they think and act strategically. In the United States, president Obama has to explain the Americans that forms of the New Green Deal are inevitable - like the situation in the thirties of the last century, when President Roosevelt made the so-called New Deal to reform the economy. Many Americans do not want the government to influence the market. They radically believe in the free market. In China, by contrast, the ideological separation between market and government does not exist. There is no Wall Street with greedy bankers, no neoconservative Grand Old Party that dreams of the cowboy economy. Decisions are taken quickly. And besides, they have to feed one billion people and develop a country that lived in Mao-ist poverty before. The Chinese are successful, after all, also in creating a sustainable economy: China does not only build old polluting power stations but uses the latest technology, with CO2- catch and -storage. And they are working on alternatives: windmills. In the next five years, they will build 100,000 windmills in the Gobi desert. Did they hate the wind in that area before, now they consider it the new gold. In the north-west area of China, the province of Gansu, the Qilian-mountains pass into the Gobi desert. There China is building the biggest windmill and solar panel park in the world. Six windmill parks with a capacity of ten gigawatts each are built, making China the biggest market of technology of wind energy, defeating the United States. "Red China becomes green China", party officials are saying. China has to grow, and so has the contribution of wind, water and sun at the energy market. This market would be interesting for foreign investments. According to Chinese officials they are welcome and can get subsidies. But, Beijing has decided that 70 percent of the windmills have to be made and designed in China. So it can be questioned if European and American companies have a fair chance in tendering for a contract. China considers itself a developing country and thinks that the western countries should contribute money to China to reduce the CO2 discharge. While America thought that energy saving is not worthwhile, China has taken an enormous energy-technological lead. The authoritarian and undemocratic but intelligent China exposes a variant of the New Deal. THE OPEC OF THE RARE MINERALS The example of China shows us that sustainable economy has everything to do with strategy and power. In a few decades China has been flooding the market of rare metals. The legend goes that president Deng Xiaoping had already predicted this in 1992, during a tour in the south of China: "They [the Mid East] have oil, but we in China have rare minerals". Nowadays, China indeed has 95 percent of the global supply of rare minerals. How did it do that? It was a result of good strategy: in the nineties, China flooded the world market with the rare minerals, although there was not that much demand. The west thought it okay because getting the minerals was a very expensive production process and the environmental legislation was very strict. The western competitors went bankrupt and they closed their mines. China became powerful. One of the centres of the rare mineral supply is around the city Baotou, an industrial city of two million people in Inner Mongolia. Here the states concern exploits almost half of the world storage of neodymium. DISRUPTION OF THE MARKET The lack of raw materials is not particularly a result of the geological availability but of disruptions in the market, because the developments of the world wide demand for rare minerals are not recognised in time - as part of the stormy development of the Chinese economy and the expansion of technical developments - and because the minerals occur in only a few countries. Experts have predicted that in the next few decades the demand of neodymium will increase by a factor 3.8. China uses 60 percent of its exploitation for its own economy. What's more, the Chinese export quota become stricter every year. What happens? Sudden peaks in the demand can lead to speculative price movements and a disruption of the market. "2010 will be the year of the raw materials", according to Trevor Greetham, Asset Allocation Director of Fidelity. Indium, a silver-white metal, which is not found directly in nature, but is a residual product of thin and zinc, is used in LCD displays for TVs, computers, mobile phones, and for led lights and the ultrathin and flexible solar panel. The price of this mineral multiplied tenfold between 2003 and 2006 from 100 to 980 Dollars per kilogram. The price of neodymium decreased from 11.7 dollar per kilogram in 1992 to 7.4 dollar in 1996. The market volume rose. In 2006 almost all of the world production of 137,000 tons came from China. By scaling back the export, prices rose, up to 60 dollar per kilogram in 2007. Imagine that for a hybrid car, like the Toyota Prius or the Mercedes S 400, you need at least 500 grams of neodymium for the magnetic power of the engine; and for the newest generation of wind turbines, the ones that are 16 meters high, you need about 1000 kilogram. That makes 60,000 dollars - for just a little bit of metal! Big business for China. At the same time, China makes further strategic investments: it took an interest in oil and gas fields. In August 2009, PetroChina paid 41 billion dollar to gain access to an enormous field of natural gas in front of the coast of Australia. And in September that year, it obtained a stake of 60 percent in the exploitation of fields of tar sand in Alberta, which might hold one of the biggest oil reserves in the world. And because China considers titanium a growing market, it took an interest of 70 percent in a titanium mine in Kenia - not only to build the Chinese 'Jumbojet', but also to provide Boeing with 2000 tons of titanium each year. By doing so, China might beat the competition in the battle for the market in green technologies. The 'free' market can be questioned. The mineral policies of China and the US both mention the usage of administrative barriers. These nontariff barriers involve regulations that seek to protect the national mineral extraction industry. As a result, it is much harder for foreign companies, if not impossible, to invest and gain a foothold in the national mineral extraction industry in these countries. The search for rare metals has become a global race: a mine in California has also been reopened, the mine of Mountain Pass. In 2008, it was bought by a group of investors, the partnership 'Molycorp Minerals'. The process of bringing the old mines into use costs much time and money. What does this mean for us? Do we get more dependent of China? The 'Innovationplatform' in Rotterdam planned to build a unique windmill park in the sea, further from the coast and in the strongest sea wind than anywhere in the world. To build these windmills, we need rare minerals, the export of which is dominated by China. Part of the project is Darwind, which designed enormous windmills for at sea. But the umbrella company, of which Darwind is part, Econcern, was about to go bankrupt. Then, in mid-August 2009 it was saved by the, surprisingly, Chinese XEMC. THE THREAT OF GEOPOLITICAL INSTABILITY The transition to a sustainable economy involves underexposed elements like deficiency in minerals and shifting balances of power. They are the ideal receipt for geopolitical instability. The new world order will be a balance between countries that do have particular raw materials and ones that do not. The lack of indispensable minerals sharpens the relations in the world. The access to critical minerals is more and more an issue of national security, concluded the 'The Hague Centre for Strategic Studies' (HCSS) in its report about the scarcity of minerals (January 2010). The US, Japan and China are making a policy that tries to secure the supply of these raw materials. That will disturb the free market activity. HCSS thinks that large concerns will, with support of the government, compete more intensively with each other for access to these raw materials, e.g. by direct investments in areas rich in raw materials. Mineral scarcity will be an issue in the next decades, though it is uncertain when and to what extent. And we have to do something because a change in supply of rare minerals directly affects our current modern lives.


This is particularly true in Afghanistan
Poonawalla 10 (Aziz Poonawalla, Postdoctoral Fellow at University of Wisconsin and a member of the Dawoodi Bohra, “Afghanistan's trillion dollar curse: lithium”, June 13, 2010, http://blog.beliefnet.com/cityofbrass/2010/06/afghanistans-trillion-dollar-c.html)
This might well be the start of a Cold War between ourselves and China. We have no choice. The free trade and movement of these critical - and increasingly scarce - materials is absolutely non-negotiable to preserve the entirety of modern industry, technological advancement, and scientific investigation worldwide. No country, or government, can be permitted to attain a monopoly on them. And only we have the presence to prevent it.



US-China war risks extinction- even a decisive victory causes irreversible damage
Wittner 11 (Lawrence- Professor of History emeritus at SUNY/Albany, huffingtonpost writer, “Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?”, 11/30, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-war-china_b_1116556.html)
Of course, the bottom line for those Americans convinced that nuclear weapons safeguard them from a Chinese nuclear attack might be that the U.S. nuclear arsenal is far greater than its Chinese counterpart. Today, it is estimated that the U.S. government possesses over 5,000 nuclear warheads, while the Chinese government has a total inventory of roughly 300. Moreover, only about 40 of these Chinese nuclear weapons can reach the United States. Surely the United States would "win" any nuclear war with China. But what would that "victory" entail? An attack with these Chinese nuclear weapons would immediately slaughter at least 10 million Americans in a great storm of blast and fire, while leaving many more dying horribly of sickness and radiation poisoning. The Chinese death toll in a nuclear war would be far higher. Both nations would be reduced to smoldering, radioactive wastelands. Also, radioactive debris sent aloft by the nuclear explosions would blot out the sun and bring on a "nuclear winter" around the globe -- destroying agriculture, creating worldwide famine, and generating chaos and destruction.


Protectionism makes war inevitable
Panzer 8 – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)
Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.

Second is nuclear power- new small modular reactors are coming now
Koch 11/20 (Wendy- USA today staff writer, 2012, “U.S. to fund small, modular nuclear reactors”, http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2012/11/20/obama-doe-fund-modular-nuclear-reactors/1717843/)
To develop a new generation of nuclear power, the Obama administration announced Tuesday that it will fund up to half the cost of a five-year project to design and commercialize small, modular reactors for the United States.¶ The Department of Energy said it aims to have these reactors, which have attracted private funding from investors including Bill Gates, in operation by 2022. It said it will negotiate the project's total cost with Babcock & Wilcox, an energy technology company based in Charlotte, that will lead the project in partnership with the Tennessee Valley Authority and Bechtel International.¶ "Low-carbon nuclear energy has an important role to play in America's energy future," Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in announcing the award, citing President Obama's push for an all-of-the-above energy strategy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions. He said DOE will accept funding requests from other companies developing such technology.¶ Small modular reactors (SMRs) are typically about one-third the size of current nuclear power plants. Although some of the technology has been used in naval propulsion plants, DOE says it's not been commercialized yet in the United States but could offer lower upfront costs, improved safety and greater flexibility. It says SMRs could be made in U.S. factories and moved to sites, including remote or small areas that cannot support large reactors, where they would be ready to "plug and play" upon arrival.¶ Several companies are developing small reactors, each with varying features. They include NuScale Power, Hyperion Power Generation, Toshiba, General Atomics, General Electric and TerraPower, in which Bill Gates is an investor.¶ The DOE co-funded project will be based in Tennessee. In a statement welcoming the award, Babcock & Wilcox said TVA is preparing an application to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to license up to four small modular reactors at its Clinch River Site in Oak Ridge, Tenn.¶ Each reactor is designed to provide 180 megawatts of power -- compared to about 1,000 megawatts for many large ones. Based on advanced pressurized water reactor technology, it can be contained entirely underground.¶ SMRs are "very promising," says Nicolas Loris, an energy policy analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation. He cites their potential for lower cost, clean energy and flexible use that could transform the nuclear industry, prompting greater competition. Yet he says the U.S. government should not be commercializing the technology but streamlining the licensing process.

Beryllium is key to nuke power
Passin 9—co-founder and manager of Firebird Global Fund and Firebird Global Fund II (James, James Passin: Rising Commodity Prices to Trigger Renaissance for Nuclear and Gold – interview with The Gold Report, 14 January 2009, http://www.uraniumseek.com/news/UraniumSeek/1231912801.php)
TGR: You talked before about the importance of beryllium for certain critical components inside nuclear reactors, because of a combination of physical properties—lightweight, strong, a high melting point, efficiency as a heat conductor, resistance to corrosion and a tendency to not absorb radiation. It's lightweight, strong, and resistant to corrosion. Could you update us on the outlook for beryllium now? JP: One of the most interesting potential applications of beryllium is in mixed oxide fuel technology. Purdue University is a world leader in mixed uranium oxide fuel research. A small company has licensed uranium-beryllium mix oxide fuel technology from Purdue University and is now collaborating with Purdue to commercialize the technology. Beryllium-uranium mixed oxide fuel, which could work in existing nuclear reactors, has the potential to dramatically reduce the need for uranium and also to improve the safety profile of nuclear reactors. There’s no substitute because of the unique thermal characteristics of beryllium. This technology has the potential to transform the economics and political acceptability of nuclear power. Aside from this potential application, beryllium is used in certain critical nuclear reactor components and therefore an interesting play on nuclear power plant construction. The technology could help ease the uranium shortage. There are some efforts required to complete research, but I have a strong degree of confidence in its commercial prospects.

China hoards beryllium and lithium in Afghanistan- no beryllium means no nuclear power
Burgess 10—editor, Wealth Daily (Luke, Afghanistan Mineral Discovery, 18 June 2010, http://www.wealthdaily.com/articles/afghanistan-mineral-discovery-a-1-trillion-find/2553)
The existence of rare earth elements in Afghanistan has been known since the 1970s. Among the rare earth elements found in the country are beryllium and lithium. Beryllium's traditional application is in radiation windows for X-ray tubes. However, because the radioactive metal burns cooler and allows more energy to be extracted, beryllium is quickly becoming the most sought after fuel for nuclear power plants. Wealth Daily's resident alternative energy expert, Jeff Siegel, details the exciting new nuclear applications for beryllium in his latest report, The Most Profitable Nuclear Advancement in 50 Years. Check out Jeff's report right here. There is only a handful of places in the world to find beryllium. A total of approximately 10 beryllium occurrences have been identified in Afghanistan's Laghman and Nangarhar provinces.

SMRs increase military vehicular capability
Butler, 11 (Lt. Col., Not Green Enough, www.mca-marines.org/gazette/not-green-enough)
Finally, Marine Corps-SMR technology opens the pathway for related endeavors and synergetic undertakings. The Army has several smart and influential individuals poised to partner in nuclear energy endeavors, and our naval brethren enjoy a long history of nuclear reactor expertise. Partnerships and enhanced use leases to support SMR deployments should be leveraged.36 As the collective military expertise in SMR technology grows, additional capabilities, such as expeditionary and vehicular power sources, could be explored. And related technologies, such as hybrid/electric vehicle power storage and recharging facilities and water desalination plants, could collocate with nuclear plants on installations to both use the energy.37


That expands the nuclear navy fleet and solves water wars
Pfeffer and Macon 1 (Robert A. Pfeffer is a physical scientist at the Army Nuclear and Chemical Agency in Springfield, Virginia, working on nuclear weapons effects. He is a graduate of Trinity University and has a master's degree in physics from The Johns Hopkins University. Previous Government experience includes Chief of the Electromagnetic Laboratory at Harry Diamond Laboratories (HDL) in Adelphi, Maryland, and Chief of the HDL Woodbridge Research Facility in Virginia. William A. Macon, Jr., is a project manager at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. He was formerly the acting Army Reactor Program Manager at the Army Nuclear and Chemical Agency. He is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy and has a master's degree in nuclear engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. His military assignments included Assistant Brigade S4 in the 1st Armored Division. “Nuclear Power: An Option for the Army's Future” October 2001, http://www.almc.army.mil/alog/issues/SepOct01/MS684.htm)

Another proposed initiative would exploit previous Army experience in developing and using small, portable nuclear power plants for the future production of hydrogen and creation of a hydrogen fuel infrastructure. Based on recent advances in small nuclear power plant technology, it would be prudent to consider developing a prototype plant for possible military applications. The Army Nuclear Power Program The military considered the possibility of using nuclear power plants to generate alternate fuels almost 50 years ago and actively supported nuclear energy as a means of reducing logistics requirements for coal, oil, and gasoline. However, political, technical, and military considerations forced the closure of the program before a prototype could be built. The Army Corps of Engineers ran a Nuclear Power Program from 1952 until 1979, primarily to supply electric power in remote areas. Stationary nuclear reactors built at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, and Fort Greeley, Alaska, were operated successfully from the late 1950s to the early 1970s. Portable nuclear reactors also were operated at Sundance, Wyoming; Camp Century, Greenland; and McMurdo Sound in Antarctica. These small nuclear power plants provided electricity for remote military facilities and could be operated efficiently for long periods without refueling. The Army also considered using nuclear power plants overseas to provide uninterrupted power and defense support in the event that U.S. installations were cut off from their normal logistics supply lines. In November 1963, an Army study submitted to the Department of Defense (DOD) proposed employing a military compact reactor (MCR) as the power source for a nuclear-powered energy depot, which was being considered as a means of producing synthetic fuels in a combat zone for use in military vehicles. MCR studies, which had begun in 1955, grew out of the Transportation Corps' interest in using nuclear energy to power heavy, overland cargo haulers in remote areas. These studies investigated various reactor and vehicle concepts, including a small liquid-metal-cooled reactor, but ultimately the concept proved impractical. The energy depot, however, was an attempt to solve the logistics problem of supplying fuel to military vehicles on the battlefield. While nuclear power could not supply energy directly to individual vehicles, the MCR could provide power to manufacture, under field conditions, a synthetic fuel as a substitute for conventional carbon-based fuels. The nuclear power plant would be combined with a fuel production system to turn readily available elements such as hydrogen or nitrogen into fuel, which then could be used as a substitute for gasoline or diesel fuel in cars, trucks, and other vehicles. Of the fuels that could be produced from air and water, hydrogen and ammonia offer the best possibilities as substitutes for petroleum. By electrolysis or high- temperature heat, water can be broken down into hydrogen and oxygen and the hydrogen then used in engines or fuel cells. Alternatively, nitrogen can be produced through the liquefaction and fractional distillation of air and then combined with hydrogen to form ammonia as a fuel for internal-combustion engines. Consideration also was given to using nuclear reactors to generate electricity to charge batteries for electric-powered vehicles—a development contingent on the development of suitable battery technology. By 1966, the practicality of the energy depot remained in doubt because of questions about the cost-effectiveness of its current and projected technology. The Corps of Engineers concluded that, although feasible, the energy depot would require equipment that probably would not be available during the next decade. As a result, further development of the MCR and the energy depot was suspended until they became economically attractive and technologically possible. Other efforts to develop a nuclear power plant small enough for full mobility had been ongoing since 1956, including a gas-cooled reactor combined with a closed- cycle gas-turbine generator that would be transportable on semitrailers, railroad flatcars, or barges. The Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) supported these developments because they would contribute to the technology of both military and small commercial power plants. The AEC ultimately concluded that the probability of achieving the objectives of the Army Nuclear Power Program in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost was not high enough to justify continued funding of its portion of projects to develop small, stationary, and mobile reactors. Cutbacks in military funding for long-range research and development because of the Vietnam War led the AEC to phase out its support of the program in 1966. The costs of developing and producing compact nuclear power plants were simply so high that they could be justified only if the reactor had a unique capability and filled a clearly defined objective backed by DOD. After that, the Army's participation in nuclear power plant research and development efforts steadily declined and eventually stopped altogether. Nuclear Technology Today The idea of using nuclear power to produce synthetic fuels, originally proposed in 1963, remains feasible today and is gaining significant attention because of recent advances in fuel cell technology, hydrogen liquefaction, and storage. At the same time, nuclear power has become a significant part of the energy supply in more than 20 countries—providing energy security, reducing air pollution, and cutting greenhouse gas emissions. The performance of the world's nuclear power plants has improved steadily and is at an all-time high. Assuming that nuclear power experiences further technological development and increased public acceptance as a safe and efficient energy source, its use will continue to grow. Nuclear power possibly could provide district heating, industrial process heating, desalination of seawater, and marine transportation. Demand for cost-effective chemical fuels such as hydrogen and methanol is expected to grow rapidly. Fuel cell technology, which produces electricity from low-temperature oxidation of hydrogen and yields water as a byproduct, is receiving increasing attention. Cheap and abundant hydrogen eventually will replace carbon-based fuels in the transportation sector and eliminate oil's grip on our society. But hydrogen must be produced, since terrestrial supplies are extremely limited. Using nuclear power to produce hydrogen offers the potential for a limitless chemical fuel supply with near-zero greenhouse gas emissions. As the commercial transportation sector increasingly moves toward hydrogen fuel cells and other advanced engine concepts to replace the gasoline internal combustion engine, DOD eventually will adopt this technology for its tactical vehicles. The demand for desalination of seawater also is likely to grow as inadequate freshwater supplies become an urgent global concern. Potable water in the 21st century will be what oil was in the 20th century—a limited natural resource subject to intense international competition. In many areas of the world, rain is not always dependable and ground water supplies are limited, exhausted, or contaminated. Such areas are likely to experience conflict among water-needy peoples, possibly prompting the deployment of U.S. ground forces for humanitarian relief, peacekeeping, or armed intervention. A mobile desalination plant using waste heat from a nuclear reactor could help prevent conflicts or provide emergency supplies of freshwater to indigenous populations, and to U.S. deployed forces if necessary. Promising Technology for Tomorrow Compact reactor concepts based on high-temperature, gas-cooled reactors are attracting attention worldwide and could someday fulfill the role once envisioned for the energy depot. One proposed design is the pebble bed modular reactor (PBMR) being developed by Eskom in South Africa. Westinghouse, BNFL Instruments Ltd., and Exelon Corporation currently are supporting this project to develop commercial applications. A similar design is the remote site-modular helium reactor (RS-MHR) being developed by General Atomics. If proven feasible, this technology could be used to replace retiring power plants, expand the Navy's nuclear fleet, and provide mobile electric power for military or disaster relief operations. Ideally, modular nuclear power plants could be operated by a small staff of technicians and monitored by a central home office through a satellite uplink.

Naval power prevents flash point escalation and global war – updating our fleet is key
NLUS, 12 – a nonprofit organization dedicated to educating our citizens about the importance of sea power to U.S. national security and supporting the men and women of the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and U.S.-flag Merchant Marine and their families (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity: Maritime Policy 2012-13”, Navy League of the United States, 1/21/12, [[http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf]] | AK)
Global engagement is critical to the U.S. economy, world trade and the protection of democratic freedoms that so many take for granted. The guarantors of these vital elements are hulls in the water, embarked forward amphibious forces and aircraft overhead. The Navy League of the United States’ Maritime Policy for 2012-13 provides recommendations for strategy, policy and the allocation of national resources in support of our sea services and essential to the successful execution of their core missions. We live in a time of complex challenges — terrorism, political and economic turmoil, extremism, conflicts over environmental resources, manmade and natural disasters — and potential flash points exist around the globe. It is the persistent forward presence and engagement of maritime forces that keep these flash points in check, prevent conflict and crisis escalation, and allow the smooth flow of goods in a global economy. The United States has fought multiple wars and sacrificed much to ensure un challenged access to sea lanes and secure the global commerce upon which the U.S. economy depends. The “persistent naval presence” provided by our forward-deployed Navy and Marine Corps ships, aircraft, Sailors and Marines is the guarantor of that hard-won maritime security and the critical deterrent against those who might seek to undermine that security. Maintaining naval forces that can sustain our national commitment to global maritime security and dissuade transnational aggression in the future must be a national imperative. The No. 1 challenge to that imperative is the lack of a fully funded, achievable Navy shipbuilding program that produces the right quantity and quality of ships, with the right capabilities, for the right costs, in economically affordable numbers over the next 25 years. A shipbuilding plan must be defined and agreed upon by the Navy, the Departments of Defense (DoD) and Homeland Security, Congress and the administration — and executed now. Recognizing that hard choices must be made in a reduction of the defense budget, the Navy League is reducing its recommended funding for the Department of the Navy’s Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy (SCN), account to $20 billion or more per year. This reduced funding leads to a recommended reduced force level of 305 ships to meet our nation’s global security challenges. This also recognizes that the worldwide commitment of ship deployment must be reduced. America’s amphibious expeditionary force is prepared to engage today’s threats — today. Our Marines remain heavily engaged in Afghanistan and support numerous other small-unit operations that enable nation-building with allies around the globe. The Marine Corps needs the authorization to reduce to an end strength of 186,800 Marines, and this force level must be properly resourced to maintain a balanced air-ground logistics team. The Corps must regain its expertise in amphibious operations and maintain that capability in force structure. The service also must be provided the resources to reset the force, to restore or acquire new equipment and capabilities consumed in the ongoing wars. The Coast Guard is a multimission, worldwide-deployed armed force with broad law enforcement authorities. It operates seamlessly with the DoD services as prescribed by the National Command Authority and is the lead agency for maritime homeland security and law enforcement support to the Navy in deployed operations. In addition, it fulfills several legally mandated missions, including its most employed mission of search and rescue, plus protection of living marine resources, drug interdiction, illegal migrant interdiction, defense readiness, marine safety, ice operations, aids to navigation, marine environmental protection, and ports, waterways and coastal security. The substantial breadth of operations, which has increased markedly in tempo since the 9/11 attacks, continues to overstress aging equipment, resulting in rising maintenance costs and a greater workload for Coast Guard personnel. The Coast Guard must increase its active-duty military strength to at least 45,000, have an operational expense budget of at least $6.7 billion and an Acquisition, Construction and Improvements (AC&I) budget resourced at no less than $2.5 billion per year, of which $2 billion should be dedicated to continuing the recapitalization of the fleet. Skilled Mariners are more critical than ever to ensuring our ability to sustain U.S. national and global security interests. Ninety-five percent of the equipment and supplies required to deploy the U.S. armed forces is moved by sea. The base of skilled U.S. Merchant Mariners is shrinking. The shipping capabilities of the Maritime Administration’s Ready Reserve Force and the DoD’s Military Sealift Command are sized to support routine and some surge logistics and specialized mission requirements. This critical capability must be maintained by ensuring an active commercial U.S.-flag Merchant Marine to support efficient and cost-effective movement of DoD cargo. The U.S. shipbuilding industry is in crisis. Finding a solution must be an imperative if our nation is to maintain a Navy capable of supporting the nation’s defense. Jobs lost in this sector mean precious ground lost in capability and capacity that cannot be regained. The current production levels for ship construction and the manufacturing of the other critical systems, equipment and weapons that we install in our ships, submarines and aircraft are at critically low levels. Sustaining and upgrading our nation’s critical, defense-related industrial base must be an essential element of our National Security Strategy. Personnel must train as they will fight to remain operationally ready. This all-volunteer military also must receive highly competitive compensation in the way of salary as well as health care, retirement and quality-of-life benefits to remain an effective fighting force. Taking care of our wounded warriors is fundamental.


Water wars escalate
Barlow 8—National chairperson of The Council of Canadians. Co-founder of the Blue Planet Project. Chairs the board of Washington-based Food & Water Watch and is also an executive member of the San Francisco–based International Forum on Globalization and a Councillor with the Hamburg-based World Future Council. She is the recipient of eight honorary doctorates. Served as Senior Advisor on Water to the 63rd President of the United Nations General Assembly (Maude, The Global Water Crisis and the Coming Battle for the Right to Water, 25 February 2008, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_global_water_crisis_and_the_coming_battle_for_the_right_to_water)
The three water crises – dwindling freshwater supplies, inequitable access to water and the corporate control of water – pose the greatest threat of our time to the planet and to our survival. Together with impending climate change from fossil fuel emissions, the water crises impose some life-or-death decisions on us all. Unless we collectively change our behavior, we are heading toward a world of deepening conflict and potential wars over the dwindling supplies of freshwater – between nations, between rich and poor, between the public and the private interest, between rural and urban populations, and between the competing needs of the natural world and industrialized humans. Water Is Becoming a Growing Source of Conflict Between Countries Around the world, more that 215 major rivers and 300 groundwater basins and aquifers are shared by two or more countries, creating tensions over ownership and use of the precious waters they contain. Growing shortages and unequal distribution of water are causing disagreements, sometimes violent, and becoming a security risk in many regions. Britain’s former defense secretary, John Reid, warns of coming “water wars.” In a public statement on the eve of a 2006 summit on climate change, Reid predicted that violence and political conflict would become more likely as watersheds turn to deserts, glaciers melt and water supplies are poisoned. He went so far as to say that the global water crisis was becoming a global security issue and that Britain’s armed forces should be prepared to tackle conflicts, including warfare, over dwindling water sources. “Such changes make the emergence of violent conflict more, rather than less, likely,” former British prime minister Tony Blair told The Independent. “The blunt truth is that the lack of water and agricultural land is a significant contributory factor to the tragic conflict we see unfolding in Darfur. We should see this as a warning sign.” The Independent gave several other examples of regions of potential conflict. These include Israel, Jordan and Palestine, who all rely on the Jordan River, which is controlled by Israel; Turkey and Syria, where Turkish plans to build dams on the Euphrates River brought the country to the brink of war with Syria in 1998, and where Syria now accuses Turkey of deliberately meddling with its water supply; China and India, where the Brahmaputra River has caused tension between the two countries in the past, and where China’s proposal to divert the river is re-igniting the divisions; Angola, Botswana and Namibia, where disputes over the Okavango water basin that have flared in the past are now threatening to re-ignite as Namibia is proposing to build a threehundred- kilometer pipeline that will drain the delta; Ethiopia and Egypt, where population growth is threatening conflict along the Nile; and Bangladesh and India, where flooding in the Ganges caused by melting glaciers in the Himalayas is wreaking havoc in Bangladesh, leading to a rise in illegal, and unpopular, migration to India.

===Contention 4- Solvency=== 

Only a Presidential Directive solves -- it aligns the necessary agencies and creates effective private sector involvement
Starr et al 10 (S. Frederick Starr and Andrew C. Kuchins with Stephen Benson, Elie Krakowski, Johannes Linn, Thomas Sanderson- Central Asia-Caucasus Institute & Silk Road Studies Program
In Cooperation with the Center for Strategic & International Studies, May, “The Key to Success in Afghanistan A Modern Silk Road Strategy”, [[http://www.silkroadstudies.org/new/docs/silkroadpapers/1005Afghan.pdf]])
Past experience suggests that an effort of this magnitude can best be set in motion by a Presidential Directive. That directive should lay out clearly the importance of initiating and sustaining such a strategy. It should appoint a senior official, preferably a Presidential Special Representative or Envoy, to head an Interagency Task Force of senior officers from relevant agencies. The Presidential Directive should also spell out the financial authority and resources of the new envoy and Task Force. The Presidential Envoy should be a prominent person with demonstrated executive ability. Such a person would work effectively with officials of the Republic of Afghanistan, ensure that issues relevant to the strategy receive focused and coordinated interagency attention, engage the private sector, and drive the process forward to meet strict deadlines. A major objective of the Presidential Envoy and Interagency Task Force would be to create the conditions necessary for private sector involvement and to remove or minimize obstacles thereto. The Interagency Task Force should comprise persons of senior decisionmaking authority from all relevant agencies and organizations within the U.S. Government. These would include the Departments of Defense (with the various relevant Military Commands and organizations, including Corps of Engineers), State (with USAID and other appropriate components), Commerce, Energy, Agriculture, and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The geographical reach of the Office of the Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan is narrower than what is needed here, and focused on different subject matter. But since the two states are integral to the new strategy, and since some of the subject matter of the two bodies overlaps, the Special Representative and his office should be an important part of the proposed Task Force. The possibility of placing this new major initiative under the aegis of a single Department was carefully considered but rejected.



Afghanistan has created the necessary framework for investment - private sector transportation development will jumpstart the initiative
Rassoul et al 11 (Zalmay Rassoul-The Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Hilary Clinton- The Secretary of State of the United States of America, Guido Westerwelle- The Foreign Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, September 22 2011, “Joint Statement of the Co-Chairs of the Ministerial Meeting on the New Silk Road”, http://www.state.gov/r/pa/prs/ps/2011/09/173801.htm)
The New Silk Road vision is a shared commitment to promote private-sector investment, increase regional trade and transit, and foster a network of linkages throughout the region. The creation of a New Silk Road will help Afghanistan and its neighbors maximize the value of natural resources, build human capacity, create jobs, generate revenue to pay for needed services, and capitalize on the region’s economic potential. The Government of Afghanistan is committed, consistent with the London and Kabul Conference Communiques, to continuing the regulatory and legal reform necessary to attract international private investment in key sectors, such as agriculture and the extractive industries. Economic cooperation among the states of the region will increase market access, promote security, and support the foundation for lasting peace. The international community, also consistent with the London and Kabul Conference Communiques, has an important role to play in supporting Afghanistan and the region’s efforts to make this vision a reality, both through its financial support and facilitation of private sector investment, through transition and beyond. There is significant opportunity for increased regional prosperity and stability through: the promotion of private sector investment, both domestic and foreign; the expansion of trade and commerce, including through implementation of regional and bilateral transit trade agreements; adoption of international best practices in border and customs controls; expanded consular visa cooperation and facilitation of business travel; expanded access to finance; prioritization of regional economic cooperation in respective national development agendas; and increased cooperation in the development of transport and energy networks, as well as mineral resources.



Encouraging private sector development is critical - it removes status quo barriers and fosters regional stability
Ritter 12 (Don Ritter- Member of Congress, Pennsylvania -15, Lehigh Valley, 1979-1993 Founder and Chairman, Afghanistan – America Foundation, 1996 - 2003 Executive Committee (Founding Board Member), Afghan-American Chamber of Commerce (AACC) 2002 - present Senior Advisor to AACC and the Afghan International Chamber of Commerce (AICC), now merged with the Afghanistan Chambers of Commerce and Industries (ACCI), 2004 and 2005 President &CEO, Afghan American Chamber of Commerce (AACC), Feb. 2009 to present, June 20 2012, “The New Silk Road Initiative – A Framework for Economic Growth and Peace”, pdf)
Significant amounts of the total New Silk Road investment will be undertaken by the public sector, including the Afghan government and the international community through aid. But a significant amount of the total investment will come from private sector interests -- from both wealthy Afghans from within and outside the region. Private sector investment is critical for the success of the NSRI for five key reasons. First, the levels of donor aid are going to decline sharply in coming years as the transition in the responsibility for national security moves from NATO/ISAF to the Afghan Security Forces. As this happens, the financial resources of the Afghan government available for initiatives such as this will also be shifting to more security related areas. Therefore, to be successful, the NSRI needs to attract private investment to augment available public resources. Private investment will be needed to fill the resource gap. Second, private sector investment is typically more productive than public sector investments. Private businesses are usually more focused and better able to employ methods to minimize costs and improve profitability in the delivery of goods and services. This attention on business efficiency will inevitably encourage improved productivity in the NSRI investments undertaken by the public sector and donors. The Afghan government is now giving the highest priority to ensuring effectiveness in all areas of investment, public and private, because of its critical importance in generating economic growth at the rates needed to increase employment and raise incomes thus reduce poverty and enhancing long-term stability. Third, Afghan economic growth and development will require diversified private sector investments in many new and different business areas. Among the major impediments that limit private investment are the security situation; undeveloped skills among Afghan workers, and a still developing legal and regulatory framework. These factors lead to uncertainty among investors concerning the ability to operate profitability in the Afghan market. Once potential investors can see private businesses demonstrate the ability to operate profitably in this market, these impediments will dissipate, creating a more conducive environment for additional investment opportunities. The investment opportunities that NSRI provides will contribute greatly to this process and need to be encouraged. Fourth, the NSRI is fundamentally regional, designed to encourage increased regional trade and investment. Closer economic ties will inevitably lead to closer political ties and improve the prospects for peace and stability in what has long been a volatile region. NSRI private investment will create improved commercial investment opportunities in other countries in the region and foster increased cross border trade. When each of the countries in the region has a significant stake in the politically stability and economic performance of their neighbours, the prospects for peace will be greatly enhanced. And fifth, the engagement of the private sector in New Silk Road investment opportunities will provide the experience and capacity for effective public-private partnerships. There has been much talk about entering into “public-private” partnerships, but few practical opportunities for actually doing so. The Afghan government appears committed to exploring innovative partnership arrangements and the NSRI offers an ideal program with which to develop these relationships.


Only sustainable US economic strategy solves
Starr and Kuchins 10 - PhD, research professor at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, and Kuchins PhD, director of the CSIS Russia and Eurasia Program, S. Frederick and Andrew et. al., Starr is the founder and Chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute, Ph.D. in history from Princeton, Kuchins currently teaches at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) and has also taught at Georgetown and Stanford Universities, Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins, May, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “T he Key To Success in Afghanistan: A Modern Silk Road Strategy”, ciao)
This brief review of transport initiatives across Eurasia reveals meaningful, yet largely uncoordinated efforts by a range of important players. One can point to new highways and rail lines and to some cross-border cooperation on trade, but these positive steps have yet to release the vast potential of long-distance trade that nearly all analyses lead one to expect. The reasons are not hard to find. First, Afghanistan still remains the ―cork in the bottle‖ that cur-tails or prevents trade along the major corridors leading to it. Secondary blockages exist elsewhere, notably to Afghanistan‘s East. To now, there has been no effective force pushing the relevant sponsors and parties to focus on the opening of even one or two major international corridors. Absent coordination, these projects too often fail to meet their potential. Summarizing the many initiatives to renew continent-wide transport and trade across the Eurasian heartland, it is fair to say that the overall effort has been enormous but that, for now, the whole remains less than the sum of the parts. The reason for this is that key blockages and impediments remain. Most of these are either within or around Afghanistan or along the borders of its neighboring states. Absent a focused effort to remove these barriers, the enormous leverage which completed corridors or routes could bring will re-main untapped. The U.S. cannot resolve these matters alone, but no country is better positioned to identify key blockages and organize the effort necessary to remove them. II. Argument for a Highly Visible and Transformative Transport-based Strategy If the U.S. and coalition forces are successful in bringing greater security to Afghanistan, these gains will be short-lived if the United States does not develop the kind of regional economic strategy described here. Meeting in Is-lamabad in 2009, twenty-four countries, including both Pakistan and Afgha-nistan, and eighteen international organizations, recognized ―that trans-regional development cooperation has the potential to alleviate poverty and improve the socio-economic conditions of the people of Afghanistan and the region.‖ As this declaration implied, a successful strategy must go beyond ―AfPak‖ and should make the longer-term economic viability of Afghanistan as high a priority as enhancing its near-term security. The bottom line is simple. According to the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief, ―International assistance constitutes around 90 percent of all public expenditures in Afghanistan.‖23 For the stabilization of Afghanistan to endure, the country must develop its licit economy. While much of the cur-rent debate has focused on how to protect the civilian population, professionalize the Afghan National Security Forces, and create a legitimate and effective Afghan government, these efforts will ultimately fail without a steady and sustainable revenue stream.




==**MBA/Emory 1AC**== 
===Plan Text=== 
The President of the United States should issue a Presidential Directive to substantially increase United States investment, in the United States, for private sector transportation infrastructure development for the New Silk Road Initiative.


===Contention 1- Inherency=== 
2014 pull out is preventing private sector investment in the New Silk Road initiative now
Sholk 12 (Dena Sholk- universalnewswire analyst citing Thomas Sanderson- Co-director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Washington, D.C.-based Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), and Said Jawad- Former Afghan Ambassador to the U.S. and President of Capitalize LLC, April 25 2012, “Private investment key to success of 'New Silk Road' after 2014”, http://www.universalnewswires.com/centralasia/turkmenistan/viewstory.aspx?id=11883)
WASHINGTON, DC - Wednesday, April 25, 2012 - A few weeks ago, Central Asia Newswire discussed the potential benefits of harnessing the improvements in transportation infrastructure along the Northern Distribution Network (NDN) as the basis of the U.S. State Department’s regional development strategy termed the “New Silk Road” (NSR). The policy calls for a reduction in trade barriers, the harmonization of transportation systems, and the synchronization of customs policies and practices between the Central Asian states and Afghanistan. Upgrading and harmonizing Central and South Asia’s infrastructure requires significant private sector investment and expertise. Yet, with the proposed withdrawal of NATO’S ISAF (International Security Assistance Force) contingents from Afghanistan in 2014, and the reduced need for the Northern Distribution Network (NDN) as a military supply line, comes a key consideration for private firms in the region: what are the incentives to stay beyond 2014? According to Thomas Sanderson, Co-director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Washington, D.C.-based Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), it will be difficult to convince western firms to continue to operate in an unstable region without ISAF acting as “big daddy.” With political support, coupled with the willingness and ability to spend billions of dollars a week on the war in Afghanistan, ISAF has played this role in Central Asia. As such, ISAF military logistics planners and diplomatic personnel regularly engage with custom officials, local businesses, parliamentarians, and ministry personnel. Informally, members of ISAF forces developed personal relationships with local officials and suppliers, which helps promote U.S. diplomatic aims and strengthen ties along the NDN. While ISAF’s presence in Central Asia has not been devoid of problems, as evidenced by the tension between Kyrgyz and U.S. officials stationed at Manas Transit Center, its presence in the region has served as a vote of confidence to risk-averse investors entering an unknown marketplace. Sanderson notes that some firms will determine whether to stay in Central and South Asia beyond 2014 in part by projecting potential profits vs. the costs rendered by high-security requirements and other factors associated with conducting business in such a harsh environment. If the costs of maintaining a private security force, constructing rail and road linkages, and providing a secure supply of electricity and clean water are offset by revenue generated from mining, then firms will continue to invest in the region, Sanderson says as an example. The few firms with the operational capacity and cash to absorb such costs, in addition to providing under-the-table bribes, and still turn a profit are state-sponsored firms from China and India. Chinese companies in particular have the financial backing of the state and are therefore able to engage in high-risk business decisions that would otherwise frighten the private sector, the analyst says. Once ISAF is out, Chinese firms possessing a dominant market position will assume the role of “big daddy”, Sanderson says. As such, Chinese firms, with their style of vertical management and adherence to different standards of business practices and ethics, will play the role of an authoritarian enabler, not a disciplinarian. “Basic economic and geopolitical value judgments will determine investment decisions,” Sanderson asserts. Firms will measure costs against profits. While providing an important boost in foreign direct investment (FDI) for the region’s economies, Chinese investments will wreak “steep environmental and social costs” on local populations, he adds. Quantifying the Costs and Challenges Without ISAF, and in particular the U.S., there is no player in the region capable of ensuring adherence to good business standards as well as safeguarding assets. Former Afghan Ambassador to the U.S. and President of Capitalize LLC, Said Jawad, echoed Sanderson’s sentiments in an interview, noting that western firms are more responsive to public pressures about their business ethics, interactions with local communities, and environmental practices than are their Chinese or Indian counterparts. “We want Western firms who have to adhere to good practices such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. This is good for Afghanistan,” Jawad noted. Similarly, most Afghans do not care about the race of the investors’ skin or the flag that is flying, but are concerned with how investments affect their employment opportunities and quality of water, he added. Convincing cautious, risk-averse firms to invest in Afghanistan’s immediate post-conflict environment is no easy task. For investors, the main concerns are access to market, security, transport and logistics. “The departure of ISAF forces in 2014 is not the determining factor for firms contemplating investing in Afghanistan,” Jawad adds. “Investment calculations account for the long-term political, institutional, and security vision for Afghanistan – how stable will it be in 2014?” That question will also weigh heavily on the minds of company leaders looking to expand into the Central Asian market. Infrastructure vs. Institutions Despite improvements in regional infrastructure, the intransigence of authoritarian regimes in resisting regional coordination stands in the way of the NSR becoming reality. Constructing infrastructure is one thing, but obtaining the support and commitment of political leaders at the highest levels of power to adjust domestic trade and customs policies in order to promote regional cooperation is quite another. Both Sanderson and former Ambassador Jawad note the significant political barriers to regional cooperation. In order to overcome the numerous “political, historical, personal” issues between the Central Asian regimes to implement the NSR, Ambassador Jawad says there is a need to focus on transit corridors rather than on broader policy themes. The emergence of trade and transportation corridors will satisfy the demands of private investors seeking greater market access without getting bogged down in the technicalities and complexities of Central Asian politics, he says. One way in which the NDN has helped establish the groundwork for the NSR is through the “backhaul-2” (BH2) concept established by the Geneva-based International Road Transport Union (IRU), which would establish an independent fleet of 1000-1500 trucks to transport U.S. army goods from Europe and Asia to Afghanistan, and vice versa. According to an IRU Background Paper obtained by Central Asia Newswire, state-controlled management companies or public-private partnerships (PPPs) would be established to manage the BH2 routes under the control of auditing representatives designated by the U.S. Government. These management companies would then lease Russian KAMAZ trucks to transport goods to and from Ulyanovsk to Afghanistan.

===Contention 2- Instability=== 
The plan is key to stabilize Afghanistan and Central Asia- 2014 pullout makes economic growth the only solution
Safi 12 (Mariam Safi is Insight on Conflict's Local Correspondent for Afghanistan. Mariam is an International Relations advisor and expert on Afghanistan, holding key research interests in state building, security and conflict management, May 28, “New Silk Road: stabilising Afghanistan post-2014”, http://www.insightonconflict.org/2012/05/stabilising-afghanistan-post-2014/)
“We believe a stable and prosperous Afghanistan can only be envisioned in a stable and prosperous region,” stated Afghan President Hamid Karzai. Speaking at the second Bonn Conference on Afghanistan in December 2011, this statement correctly asserts that stability in Afghanistan and stability in the region, are two mutually-reinforcing pillars. Thus the future of the region is dependent upon Afghanistan’s ability to meet its state-building measures and move beyond what has been called the decade of ‘transition,’ to the decade of ‘transformation’ (between the years 2014 and 2024). The prospects for a stable and prosperous Afghanistan, following the withdrawal of NATO-Isaf forces in the post-2014 period, will largely depend upon Afghanistan’s ability to sustain economic growth, provide goods and services to its people, reduce its dependence upon international aid, and realise its natural resource deposits. Thus an Afghanistan connected to the South and Central Asian region through the revitalisation of the ancient Silk Road, will not only help re-establish Afghanistan as a land-bridge, but also help sustain its economy by facilitating and connecting the transit of goods and energy across the region.
It’s reverse casual- instability is inevitable absent the aff
Starr and Kuchins 10 - PhD, research professor at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, and Kuchins PhD, director of the CSIS Russia and Eurasia Program, S. Frederick and Andrew et. al., Starr is the founder and Chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute, Ph.D. in history from Princeton, Kuchins currently teaches at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) and has also taught at Georgetown and Stanford Universities, Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins, May, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “T he Key To Success in Afghanistan: A Modern Silk Road Strategy”, ciao)
The proposed transport-based strategy will mitigate the negative effects of the downturn that will inevitably accompany the winding down of the NDN. If the U.S. exercises the needed leadership, the end of NDN could even become a boon for Afghan and regional logistics businesses. Conversely, if the opportunity offered by the Modern Silk Road is ignored, everything the United States will have achieved in Afghanistan will be short-lived, and instability will likely remain a permanent presence in the heart of Eurasia.



3 Impacts:
First is Afghanistan instability- it sparks an Indo-Pak war
Markey et al, 10 (Former professor at Princeton gnd Harvard, and current CFR Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force Report #65, November, “U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan,” [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/23253/us_strategy_for_pakistan_and_afghanistan.html?co=C007303]])
The United States faces real dangers in Pakistan and Afghanistan that demand considerable attention, no matter what strategy Washington implements. An insurgency laced with international terrorism is a menacing threat to regional and global security. Nuclear-armed Pakistan’s persistent ties to some of these groups, particularly LeT and elements of the Afghan Taliban, obstruct closer American cooperation and undermine the long-term stability of the world’s second-largest Muslim-majority state. Afghanistan’s instability could drag the region into a proxy war that would place still greater stresses on Pakistan, weaken fragile, energy rich Central Asian states, and exacerbate tensions between New Delhi and Islamabad. The Task Force takes seriously the possibility that a rapid U.S. exit from an unstable Afghanistan could re-create safe havens for international terrorism. In Pakistan, if dangerous social, political, and economic trends are not tackled now, they will tax the world’s security and collective resources for generations to come. In a worst-case scenario, a radicalized, nuclear-armed Pakistan of three hundred million people in 2050 would be an almost unimaginable threat to global order. At present, the United States aims to address these threats by building partnerships with Pakistani and Afghan allies that will turn the heavy investments of today into sustainable, less costly, more solid options over the long haul. These partnerships are essential. Without them, the United States will not achieve its objectives. In fighting terrorism and insurgency, progress should be measured by what America builds, not just by whom it captures or kills. Improved cooperation with Pakistan, strengthened Afghan security forces, and more territory secured from Taliban control constitute successes along the way. Political reforms and economic development efforts must follow in order for the region to achieve enduring stability. A final U.S. victory in the region will not come through an enemy’s formal surrender; it will come when U.S. partners in Pakistan and Afghanistan are committed and stable enough to secure their own territories and U.S. forces can withdraw completely.

Even a limited exchange risks extinction
Toon et al 7 – Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences @ University of Colorado – ‘7 [Owen B. Toon, Alan Robock (Professor of Environmental Sciences @ Rutgers University), Richard P. Turco (Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences @ UCLA, Charles Bardeen (Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences @ University of Colorado), Luke Oman (Professor of of Earth and Planetary Sciences @ Johns Hopkins University), Georgiy L. Stenchikov (Professor of Environmental Sciences @ Rutgers University), “NUCLEAR WAR: Consequences of Regional-Scale Nuclear Conflicts,” Science, 2 March 2007, Vol. 315. no. 5816, pp. 1224 – 1225]
The world may no longer face a serious threat of global nuclear warfare, but regional conflicts continue. Within this milieu, acquiring nuclear weapons has been considered a potent political, military, and social tool (1-3). National ownership of nuclear weapons offers perceived international status and insurance against aggression at a modest financial cost. Against this backdrop, we provide a quantitative assessment of the potential for casualties in a regional-scale nuclear conflict, or a terrorist attack, and the associated environmental impacts (4, 5).¶ Eight nations are known to have nuclear weapons. In addition, North Korea may have a small, but growing, arsenal. Iran appears to be seeking nuclear weapons capability, but it probably needs several years to obtain enough fissionable material. Of great concern, 32 other nations--including Brazil, Argentina, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan--have sufficient fissionable materials to produce weapons (1, 6). A de facto nuclear arms race has emerged in Asia between China, India, and Pakistan, which could expand to include North Korea, South Korea, Taiwan, and Japan (1). In the Middle East, a nuclear confrontation between Israel and Iran would be fearful. Saudi Arabia and Egypt could also seek nuclear weapons to balance Iran and Israel. Nuclear arms programs in South America, notably in Brazil and Argentina, were ended by several treaties in the 1990s (6). We can hope that these agreements will hold and will serve as a model for other regions, despite Brazil's new, large uranium enrichment facilities.¶ Nuclear arsenals containing 50 or more weapons of low yield [15 kilotons (kt), equivalent to the Hiroshima bomb] are relatively easy to build (1, 6). India and Pakistan, the smallest nuclear powers, probably have such arsenals, although no nuclear state has ever disclosed its inventory of warheads (7). Modern weapons are compact and lightweight and are readily transported (by car, truck, missile, plane, or boat) (8). The basic concepts of weapons design can be found on of the Internet. The only serious obstacle to constructing a bomb is the limited availability of purified fissionable fuels.There are many political, economic, and social factors that could trigger a regional-scale nuclear conflict, plus many scenarios for the conduct of the ensuing war. We assumed (4) that the densest population centers in each country--usually in megacities--are attacked. We did not evaluate specific military targets and related casualties. We considered a nuclear exchange involving 100 weapons of 15-kt yield each, that is, ~0.3% of the total number of existing weapons (4). India and Pakistan, for instance, have previously tested nuclear weapons and are now thought to have between 109 and 172 weapons of unknown yield (9). Fatalities were estimated by means of a standard population database for a number of countries that might be targeted in a regional conflict (see figure, above). For instance, such an exchange between India and Pakistan (10) could produce about 21 million fatalities--about half as many as occurred globally during World War II. The direct effects of thermal radiation and nuclear blasts, as well as gamma-ray and neutron radiation within the first few minutes of the blast, would cause most casualties. Extensive damage to infrastructure, contamination by long-lived radionuclides, and psychological trauma would likely result in the indefinite abandonment of large areas leading to severe economic and social repercussions. Fires ignited by nuclear bursts would release copious amounts of light-absorbing smoke into the upper atmosphere. If 100 small nuclear weapons were detonated within cities, they could generate 1 to 5 million tons of carbonaceous smoke particles (4), darkening the sky and affecting the atmosphere more than major volcanic eruptions like Mt. Pinatubo (1991) or Tambora (1815) (5). Carbonaceous smoke particles are transported by winds throughout the atmosphere but also induce circulations in response to solar heating. Simulations (5) predict that such radiative-dynamical interactions would loft and stabilize the smoke aerosol, which would allow it to persist in the middle and upper atmosphere for a decade. Smoke emissions of 100 low-yield urban explosions in a regional nuclear conflict would generate substantial global-scale climate anomalies, although not as large as in previous "nuclear winter" scenarios for a full-scale war (11, 12). However, indirect effects on surface land temperatures, precipitation rates, and growing season lengths (see figure, below) would be likely to degrade agricultural productivity to an extent that historically has led to famines in Africa, India, and Japan after the 1783-1784 Laki eruption (13) or in the northeastern United States and Europe after the Tambora eruption of 1815 (5). Climatic anomalies could persist for a decade or more because of smoke stabilization, far longer than in previous nuclear winter calculations or after volcanic eruptions. Studies of the consequences of full-scale nuclear war show that indirect effects of the war could cause more casualties than direct ones, perhaps eliminating the majority of the world's population (11, 12). Indirect effects such as damage to transportation, energy, medical, political, and social infrastructure could be limited to the combatant nations in a regional war. However, climate anomalies would threaten the world outside the combat zone. The predicted smoke emissions and fatalities per kiloton of explosive yield are roughly 100 times those expected from estimates for full-scale nuclear attacks with high-yield weapons (4).

Second is Central Asian Instability- Afghan instability causes it
Lal, 6 – RAND Corporation (Rollie, Central Asia and Its Asian Neighbors, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/MG440/))
The Asian states neighboring Central Asia have historic links and strong interests in the region. China, Iran, Afghanistan, India, and Pakistan are critical players in the security and economic issues that will determine the future of Central Asia and affect U.S. interests in the region. All of these states are of importance to the United States, whether due to the war on terrorism, economic ties, arms control, nonproliferation, or other reasons. China, Iran, and India have all aggressively sought to build trade ties to and through Central Asia, and China and India have also invigorated security cooperation. But regional states are concerned about the situation in Afghanistan, which they fear might lead to a spillover of conflict onto their soil, and they also fear the possibility of Pakistani activity and influence, which has led them to keep that state at arm’s length. China has indicated that security is a primary interest in the region through its initiative in establishing the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) with Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Russia (pp. 6–7). Concerns regarding China’s Muslim Uighur separatists, as well as concerns of U.S. encirclement, underpin China’s efforts to promote regional security cooperation (pp. 4–6, 9–10). China has also moved aggressively to expand its economic interests in the region through commodity trade and agreements to import oil via pipeline from Kazakhstan (pp. 7–8). Iran has a similar perspective toward its Central Asian neighbors. Stability in Afghanistan lies at the heart of Iran’s concerns, as the Taliban has historically been anathema to Iran (p. 12). Iran maintains that an international, United Nations–led military presence should remain in Afghanistan to prevent a deterioration of the security situation (pp. 11–12). However, U.S. presence there and in Central Asia creates concern in Iran that U.S. intentions are to surround and isolate Iran rather than enhance regional security (p. 16). To increase its leverage in the region, Iran is developing economic links with each country in Central Asia. Transport links are another important initiative, with routes being developed via Afghanistan, connecting Iranian ports and landlocked Uzbekistan (pp. 13–16). India shares Iran’s concerns regarding the threat of militants based in Afghanistan. However, India welcomes U.S. presence in the region as a stabilizing influence (p. 34). Economic ties are growing, and India is developing transport and energy links to the region via Iran and Afghanistan (pp. 33–34). The Central Asian states have close relations with India dating to the years of the Soviet Union and the Afghan war, a history that negatively affects their relations with Pakistan. Pakistan’s relations with Central Asia suffer from lingering memories in the region of Pakistan’s role in supporting the Taliban and Islamic militancy in general. Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Kyrgyzstan all remain suspicious of Pakistan’s regional intentions, and trade with Pakistan has been weak as a result (p. 25). The establishment of the Karzai government in Kabul has been a blow to Pakistan’s regional security strategy. Whereas the Taliban regime would have been friendly to Pakistan’s interests, the current government is more open to ties with India (p. 23). Although Pakistan is moving to overcome its regional reputation, robust cooperation will take time and effort (p. 26). Afghanistan remains critical to the future of Central Asia and its neighbors, as instability in Afghanistan has the potential to destabilize the region (pp. 19–20). A potent combination of drugs, weapons, and militants traverse Afghanistan and cross into Central Asia and beyond. Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Kyrgyzstan fear that Islamic militants trained in Afghanistan may slip back across their borders (p. 20). Iran remains apprehensive that hostile, anti-Shia elements may take control of Afghanistan, putting Iranian security at risk (p. 12). And Pakistan and India both compete to ensure that the Afghan regime in power is friendly to their interests (pp. 26, 29). Although the countries across Asia do not agree on how to secure Afghanistan against threats, unanimous agreement exists on the fact that a stable Afghanistan is critical to their own security interests.
That causes accidental nuclear war between the US and Russia
Schorr, 1 - analyst with the Insitute for Policy Studies (Ira, The Record, 10/14, lexis)
While these actions helped the nuclear superpowers back away from using weapons of mass destruction at a precarious time, it's sobering to note that the United States and Russia are still courting nuclear disaster. Despite no longer being strategic foes they still maintain thousands of nuclear weapons on hair-trigger alert -- poised for a quick launch. This is a threat that no missile defense system will ever be able to protect us from. This process of keeping nuclear weapons on a hair-trigger means that leaders on both sides have just minutes to assess whether a warning of an attack is real or false. And while the threats we faced during the Cold War came from Soviet strength -- the danger today comes more from Russia's weakness. For example, Russia's troubled economy has led to the profound decay of its early warning satellite system. A fire last May that destroyed a critical facility used to control Russian warning satellites has made things even worse. "Russia has completely lost its space-based early warning capabilities," says Bruce Blair of the Center for Defense Information. "In essence, the country's ability to tell a false alarm from a real warning has been nearly crippled. " False alarms on both sides have already brought us to the brink of nuclear war. What will happen now if there is a war in the volatile neighborhood of Central Asia -- a region that includes nuclear powers India, Pakistan, and Russia? Former Sen. Sam Nunn brought the point home in a recent speech: "The events of Sept. 11 gave President Bush very little time to make a very difficult decision -- whether to give orders to shoot down a commercial jetliner filled with passengers. Our current nuclear posture in the United States and Russia could provide even less time for each president to decide on a nuclear launch that could destroy our nations. " Nunn called on Presidents Bush and Putin to "stand-down" their nuclear forces to "reduce toward zero the risk of accidental launch or miscalculation and provide increased launch decision time for each president. " In the spirit of the courageous steps his father took to decrease the nuclear threat 10 years ago, President Bush should take action now to remove nuclear weapons from hair-trigger alert. This would send a signal to the world that in this volatile time, the U.S. is serious about preventing the use of nuclear weapons.


That is the greatest risk for nuclear extinction
Frumkin and Helfand 12 (Howard Frumkin, MD, DrPH, School of Public Health, University of Washington; Ira Helfand, MD, Physicians for Social Responsibility, “A Prescription for Survival: Prevention of Nuclear War,” American Journal of Preventive Medicine, March, Science Direct)
Still, it is not the arsenals of these new nuclear powers that pose the greatest danger. Ninety-five percent of the nuclear weapons in the world today remain in the arsenals of the U.S. and Russia. Even under the New START Treaty, they are each allowed to keep 1550 deployed strategic nuclear weapons, thousands of nondeployed weapons, and all of their nonstrategic warheads. A 2002 study showed that if only 300 of the weapons in the Russian arsenal were targeted at U.S. cities, 70 to 100 million people would die. In addition, the attack would destroy the communications and transportation networks and the rest of the social infrastructure on which modern societies depend. Over the following months, the majority of the population not killed in the initial attack would die of starvation, exposure, and disease. The U.S. counterattack on Russia would cause the same level of devastation there.19 As in the case of a regional nuclear war in South Asia, the direct effects of this large-scale nuclear war would be only a small part of the picture. If the full strategic arsenal allowed under New START were drawn into the conflict, the resulting firestorms in the U.S. and Russia would loft more than 150 million tons of debris into the upper atmosphere. In a matter of days, temperatures would plummet across the globe by an average of 8° C. In the interior regions of North America and Eurasia, temperatures would fall as much as 30° C. In the temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere there would not be a single day free of frost for 3 years. [20] and [21] Agriculture would stop, and ecosystems would collapse. The vast majority of the human race would starve to death, and it is possible that homo sapiens could become extinct.





Third is NATO- instability post-withdrawl kills NATO credibility
Joyner, 09 - Managing Editor of the Atlantic Council (9/10/09, James, The National Interest, “The North Atlantic Phoenix,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22168)

The seemingly universal consensus that existed mere months ago that Afghanistan was a “necessary war” the West could not afford to lose has suddenly evaporated. Prominent liberals, centrists and conservatives are coming out in droves to proclaim our goals too lofty and the chances of success too low to justify the high cost in blood and treasure. If, as now seems inevitable, we leave Afghanistan without finishing the job—whatever that job might be—there will of course be geopolitical consequences. These are being debated at great length elsewhere. Atlanticists, however, have an additional concern: what will the impact be on NATO? Shortly after taking office in January 2004, then–NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer declared “Our first, and immediate priority is to get Afghanistan right. We cannot afford to fail.” He continued, “If we fail in Afghanistan—if we do not meet our commitments to the people of that country to help them build a better future—then who will have confidence in us again? Our credibility—as NATO, as the Euro-Atlantic community—is on the line. And credibility is one of our strongest assets. To preserve it, we have no choice but to succeed.” He repeated this theme throughout his tenure in office, right up to the end. Scheffer led our alliance superbly through a very difficult period. His words here were, however, terribly unwise. Quite naturally, citizens in free societies do not want to send their troops to fight and die unless the cause is just and the danger is enormous. This leads to the unfortunate tendency for democratic leaders to oversell war efforts—and undersell the dangers—to rally public support. Recall George H. W. Bush’s touting Saddam Hussein as “Hitler revisited,” Bill Clinton’s promise that American troops would remain in Bosnia no more than a year, or George W. Bush’s cherry-picking the intelligence on Saddam’s WMD and warning of “mushroom clouds.”

A credible NATO prevents great power wars
Brzezinski 9 (Zbigniew Brzezinski, Former US National Security Adviser, October 2009, Foreign Affairs, An Agenda for NATO, Ebsco)
NATO's potential is not primarily military. Although NATO is a collective-security alliance, its actual military power comes predominantly from the United States, and that reality is not likely to change anytime soon. NATO's real power derives from the fact that it combines the United States' military capabilities and economic power with Europe's collective political and economic weight (and occasionally some limited European military forces). Together, that combination makes NATO globally significant. It must therefore remain sensitive to the importance of safeguarding the geopolitical bond between the United States and Europe as it addresses new tasks. The basic challenge that NATO now confronts is that there are historically unprecedented risks to global security. Today's world is threatened neither by the militant fanaticism of a territorially rapacious nationalist state nor by the coercive aspiration of a globally pretentious ideology embraced by an expansive imperial power. The paradox of our time is that the world, increasingly connected and economically interdependent for the first time in its entire history, is experiencing intensifying popular unrest made all the more menacing by the growing accessibility of weapons of mass destruction--not just to states but also, potentially, to extremist religious and political movements. Yet there is no effective global security mechanism for coping with the growing threat of violent political chaos stemming from humanity's recent political awakening. The three great political contests of the twentieth century (the two world wars and the Cold War) accelerated the political awakening of mankind, which was initially unleashed in Europe by the French Revolution. Within a century of that revolution, spontaneous populist political activism had spread from Europe to East Asia. On their return home after World Wars I and II, the South Asians and the North Africans who had been conscripted by the British and French imperial armies propagated a new awareness of anticolonial nationalist and religious political identity among hitherto passive and pliant populations. The spread of literacy during the twentieth century and the wide-ranging impact of radio, television, and the Internet accelerated and intensified this mass global political awakening. In its early stages, such new political awareness tends to be expressed as a fanatical embrace of the most extreme ethnic or fundamentalist religious passions, with beliefs and resentments universalized in Manichaean categories. Unfortunately, in significant parts of the developing world, bitter memories of European colonialism and of more recent U.S. intrusion have given such newly aroused passions a distinctively anti-Western cast. Today, the most acute example of this phenomenon is found in an area that stretches from Egypt to India. This area, inhabited by more than 500 million politically and religiously aroused peoples, is where NATO is becoming more deeply embroiled. Additionally complicating is the fact that the dramatic rise of China and India and the quick recovery of Japan within the last 50 years have signaled that the global center of political and economic gravity is shifting away from the North Atlantic toward Asia and the Pacific. And of the currently leading global powers--the United States, the EU, China, Japan, Russia, and India--at least two, or perhaps even three, are revisionist in their orientation. Whether they are "rising peacefully" (a self-confident China), truculently (an imperially nostalgic Russia) or boastfully (an assertive India, despite its internal multiethnic and religious vulnerabilities), they all desire a change in the global pecking order. The future conduct of and relationship among these three still relatively cautious revisionist powers will further intensify the strategic uncertainty. Visible on the horizon but not as powerful are the emerging regional rebels, with some of them defiantly reaching for nuclear weapons. North Korea has openly flouted the international community by producing (apparently successfully) its own nuclear weapons--and also by profiting from their dissemination. At some point, its unpredictability could precipitate the first use of nuclear weapons in anger since 1945. Iran, in contrast, has proclaimed that its nuclear program is entirely for peaceful purposes but so far has been unwilling to consider consensual arrangements with the international community that would provide credible assurances regarding these intentions. In nuclear-armed Pakistan, an extremist anti-Western religious movement is threatening the country's political stability. These changes together reflect the waning of the post-World War II global hierarchy and the simultaneous dispersal of global power. Unfortunately, U.S. leadership in recent years unintentionally, but most unwisely, contributed to the currently threatening state of affairs. The combination of Washington's arrogant unilateralism in Iraq and its demagogic Islamophobic sloganeering weakened the unity of NATO and focused aroused Muslim resentments on the United States and the West more generally.

Even if these wars don’t escalate we should prioritize their prevention
Zelinsky 11 (Joshua, Yale graduate, comment on 03 September 2011 to “Impact of India-Pakistan nuclear war on x-risk?” http://lesswrong.com/lw/7fg/impact_of_indiapakistan_nuclear_war_on_xrisk/)
The question is not the right question to ask. Large scale war whether nuclear or not regardless of the countries increases existential risk in all forms. The more resources taken up dealing with such situations the less spent on preventing existential risks such as large asteroids, superbugs and very bad AI. The increased stress levels to societies will also encourage risk taking liking it more likely that people will try to develop major new technologies without adequate safeguards. Nanotech and AI both fall into this category. (To some degree this is the worst case scenario . If technological progress is halted completely this won't be a problem. The really bad case is where technological research continues but without safeguards.) The question as phrased also emphasizes climate change rather than other issues. In the case of such a nuclear war, there would be many other negative results. India is a major economy at this point and such a war would result in largescale economic problems throughout. A slightly larger scale problem is that of total societal collapse, or human extinction. Both of these look unlikely in the Pakistan-India case but are worth discussing (although at this point seem very unlikely for any plausible nuclear war scenario). One serious problem with coming back from societal collapse that is often neglected is the problem of resource management. Nick Bostrom has pointed out that. to get to our current tech level we had to bootstrap up using non-renewable fossil fuels and other non-renewable resources. If the tech level is sufficiently reduced it isn't obvious that such a bootsrapping can occur again.As more and more resources are consumed this problem becomes more severe. (This is in my view an argument for conservation of fossil fuels that is too often neglected- we need them in reserve in case we need to climb back up the tech ladder again.) But again, this situation doesn't seem that likely. Overall, nuclear war is an example of many sorts of situations that would increase existential risk across the board. In that regard it isn't that different from a smallish asteroid impact (say 2-3 km) in a major country, or Yellowstone popping, or a massive disease outbreak or a lot of other situations. Nuclear war probably seems more salient because it involves human intent. This is similar to how terrorism is a lot scarier to most people than car crashes.

===Contention 3 China=== 
Absent US investment, China will dominate Afghanistan’s mineral deposits and create political instability
Gusvosky 9/30 (Dina- CNN, CNBC, and Examiner staff writer- cites Jeffrey Shaw- U.S. Government contracting consultant and adviser, responsible for setting up a company between 2002-2004 that was intended to help the Afghans develop a mining industry AND Steve LeVine- a Schwartz Fellow at the New America Foundation and Washington correspondent for Quartz, 2012, “Politics¶ MAINDEMOCRATREPUBLICANINDEPENDENTELECTIONS 2012¶ Reaping the benefits of Afghanistan's resources”, http://www.examiner.com/article/reaping-the-benefits-of-afghanistan-s-resources)
The US troop surge in Afghanistan has come to an end. And while there's much debate about whether or not this is something to truly celebrate, especially given the heavy troop presence that will remain in the war torn nation, some of the discussion has now shifted to Afghanistan's future without the United States and NATO.¶ Though security will be the most important element in defining Afghanistan’s future, economic development is not far behind--if not directly intertwined.¶ Many political experts, citing various reports, have brought up the country's vast natural resources and the possibility of developing a lucrative mining industry in Afghanistan.¶ According to a recent article in the NY Times:¶ “— If there is a road to a happy ending in Afghanistan, much of the path may run underground: in the trillion-dollar reservoir of natural resources — oil, gold, iron ore, copper, lithium and other minerals — that has brought hopes of a more self-sufficient country, if only the wealth can be wrested from blood-soaked soil.”¶ Aside from the ethnic conflict that is likely to ensue if any such potential to make a large sum of money comes to fruition, there are other factors that should be considered when it comes to determining whether or not developing this industry would even be possible.¶ Several reports, including from the World Bank, have validated that Afghanistan does have good quality resources. Not only 'steel quality coal,' but precious and semi-precious stones such as rubies, emeralds, and lapis were also found.¶ U.S. Government contracting consultant and adviser Jeffrey Shaw was responsible for setting up a company between 2002-2004 that was intended to help the Afghans develop a mining industry.¶ But the barriers proved to be too much and the proposed company's file was closed in 2006.¶ According to Shaw there is very little to no "government"-level commitment to the process,¶ There are no roads or power or any reasonable infrastructure to exploit the resources. The returns would have to be substantial before private investors commit the capital to such infrastructure creation. An additional barrier is the sheer corruption of the Afghan society and the Karzai government. As a case in point, the Government of Canada had allocated a couple hundred million dollars to the construction of a power generating dam project [in 2005]. After it was announced, one of the Karzai brothers bought up all of the land surrounding the dam and the site itself, so that the Canadians would have to buy it back from him (at many multiples of price) before the dam could be built. The project was dropped, but this is typical of what any development project is dealing with and it is not just the Karzai family, it is every tribal leader at any corner of the society.¶ Shaw advises the United States not to consider investing in Afghanistan in this way; however, China is already looking for ways to reap the benefits from this potential opportunity.¶ They [CHINA] will take complete control of what they acquire in Afghanistan and they will make the rules for the locals to live by, or the locals will not be allowed to play. The chiefs will be paid to keep the people in line and the Chinese will start digging. End of story. They have none of the "nation-building" illusions that the West feels the need to play by, but they do recognize the value of the raw material.¶ Shaw, like others who understand the inner workings of the Afghan government and society, say that China will step in with their own workers, pay the Afghans off by buying the land and mineral rights from them, and leave behind money for the tribal elders but no actual industry that could potentially help Afghanistan’s economy in the long term.¶ Steve LeVine, a Schwartz Fellow at the New America Foundation and Washington correspondent for Quartz, also believes that if China were to try to take advantage of these resources in Afghanistan, it would be a short-term vs. a long-term investment.¶ “From two decades of watching and covering the country, I feel confident saying that China will not end up dominating Afghanistan…Perhaps its territorial notions will expand over time, but I found no one who suggested that China wishes to play a security role in Afghanistan or Central Asia.”¶ As far as the main barriers towards developing this industry, Levine says:¶ I do not think that these resources are driving ethnic conflict. But I do think that already-existing ethnic conflict can be the main force that hinders their development.¶ Whereas the United States would most likely attempt to create a lasting industry in Afghanistan, China, like other investors, probably realizes that in order to make a substantial profit, it is better to try to do so without any strings attached.
Federal government investment is necessary to disperse resources globally – solves energy insecurity
Muzalevsky 11/1 (Roman Muzalevsky- asia times staff writer, works for iJet Intelligent Risk Systems Inc, focusing on global and regional security analysis. He is also a contributing analyst on Eurasian affairs and security at Jamestown Foundation and a contributing analyst on the North America, Russia and Central Asia, and globalization desks at the geopolitical and security consultancy Wikistrat, 2012, “US Silk Road Plan Spins Fragile Thread”, [[http://atimes.com/atimes/Central_Asia/NK01Ag01.html|http://atimes.com//atimes/Central_Asia/NK01Ag01.html]])
*NSRS=New Silk Road Strategy
Washington's role as a facilitator in some of these projects has been instrumental. But to solidify this progress and have other actors follow the NSRS to achieve the declared goals and promote its geostrategic interests along the way, the US needs concrete plans, development initiatives, and investment projects based on direct involvement of the US government and business. ¶ A beefed-up NSRS would pursue important outcomes that are critical for enduring regional security and American interests in the long run. Such a strategy would allow the US to promote economic synergies among actors that view Central Asia as a buffer zone and platform for geopolitical contests in Eurasia and the world. In a region surrounded by at least four nuclear powers, with Iran being the potential fifth, this is a critical task. ¶ Such an NSRS would also enable the US to structure its regional efforts to shape the global order because Central Asia sees a growing involvement of the world's two potentially largest economies, China and India, and a strong push by Russia for economic and security integration in the post-Soviet space. ¶ It would help Washington channel the development the region's immense energy resources. The abundance of these and the global challenge of resource scarcity, and the issues of a rising global population and middle class, especially as driven by China and India, make Washington's enduring regional engagement an imperative for Eurasian energy security and global stability. <span style="font-family: SimSun;">¶</span>Such a strategy would further help Afghanistan and Pakistan, both dependent on foreign aid, to start relying on private-sector-led growth much faster and encourage more rapid democratic change via enhanced trade and economic linkages in Eurasia. ¶ In the process, the US needs the help of other actors, not least the European Union and India. That US Secretary of State Hilary Clinton announced the launch of the NSRS last year in Chennai, India, is noteworthy. For all its flaws, India is considered a democracy that boasts a rapidly emerging economy. This summer, New Delhi announced its "Connect Central Asia" policy seeking to "glue" Central and South Asia via Afghanistan. India's economic capabilities are instrumental and would add "weight" to the NSRS and the US evolving strategic relationship with India. ¶ Silk Road related initiatives should help Central and South Asian countries mitigate, if not resolve in the short run, the many regional security challenges through and beyond 2014. The NSRS is one such crucial initiative, which can promote US interests while contributing to development of Central and South Asia. ¶ However, this initiative risks remaining a vision without a detailed plan based on the direct involvement of Washington. If the US is serious about leading the world, it needs to remain engaged in Central Asia, which serves as a springboard for regional and global ambitions of China, India, and Russia, among other actors. The US must turn itself from a facilitator into a direct participator.



2 scenarios:
First is Market domination- Chinese domination of resources guarantees war- dispersed access is key
Poonawalla 10 (Aziz Poonawalla, Postdoctoral Fellow at University of Wisconsin and a member of the Dawoodi Bohra, “Afghanistan's trillion dollar curse: lithium”, June 13, 2010, http://blog.beliefnet.com/cityofbrass/2010/06/afghanistans-trillion-dollar-c.html)
This might well be the start of a Cold War between ourselves and China. We have no choice. The free trade and movement of these critical - and increasingly scarce - materials is absolutely non-negotiable to preserve the entirety of modern industry, technological advancement, and scientific investigation worldwide. No country, or government, can be permitted to attain a monopoly on them. And only we have the presence to prevent it.


Empirics prove that leads to war
Heinberg 4 – journalist, teaches at the Core Faculty of New College of California, on the Board of Advisors of the Solar Living Institute and the Post Carbon Institute (Richard, “Power Down”, Published by New Society Publishers, pg. 59)

This is a persuasive line of reasoning on the face of it, but it ignores the realities of how markets really work. If the global market were in fact able to prevent resource wars, the past half-century should have been a period of near-perfect peace. But resource disputes have instead erupted repeatedly, and continue to do so. Just in the past twenty years, resource disputes have erupted over oil in Nigeria, Algeria, Colombia, Yemen, Iraq/Kuwait, and Sudan; over' timber and natural gas in Indonesia (Aceh); and over copper in Bougainville/Papua New Guinea -and this is far from being an exhaustive list. In classical economic theory, all actors within a market system act rationally in pursuit of their own interests, and no one buys or sells without an expectation of benefit. In the real world, however, buyers and sellers enter the marketplace with unequal levels of power. Some economic players have wealth and weapons, while others don't; as a result, some have figurative -if not literal -guns to their heads persuading them to act in ways that are clearly not in their own interest. Lest we forget: the essence of the European colonial system was the maintenance of unequal terms of trade through military duress. While nearly all of the old colonial governments were overthrown after World War II in favor of indigenous regimes, much of the essential structure of colonialism remains in place. Indeed, some would argue that the new institutions of global trade (the World Trade Organization, together with lending agencies like the World Bank) are just as effective as the old colonial networks at transferring wealth from resource-rich poor nations to militarily powerful rich consuming nations, and that the failure of these institutions to enable the fair distribution of resources will ultimately result in a greater likelihood of armed conflict within and between nations. The new post-colonial international system works to maintain and deepen inequalities of wealth primarily through control (on the part of the wealthy, powerful nations) over the rules and terms of trade, and over the currencies of trade.

There’s a low threshold for them to go nuclear
Barnes, 11 – Contributor to Business Insider (Jack H., January 5, 2011, “China threatens preemptive Nuclear war”, Business Insider, http://articles.businessinsider.com/2011-01-05/markets/30091238_1_nuclear-weapons-nuclear-response-nuclear-state)
Kyodo News is reporting that China has changed its nuclear stance. This is going to leave Japan no choice but to produce weapons as well. The new rules allow China to attack another country using nuclear weapons, even if the opponent has not used them. This is a new form of “we will nuke you if you beat us up”. There are only two nations that could realistically try to destroy the Chinese military in place, using only conventional weapons, the United States and Japan. One of them is very far away and has its own nuclear response. The other is geographically closer and does not have any official weapons. You can expect to see the Japanese government ramp up a domestic stimulus program with serious military upgrades built into it. The Chinese military will consider launching a preemptive nuclear strike if the country finds itself faced with a critical situation in a war with another nuclear state, internal documents showed Wednesday.The newly revealed policy, called ”Lowering the Threshold of Nuclear Threats,” may contradict China’s strategy of no first use of nuclear weapons under any circumstance, and is likely to fan concern in the United States, Japan and other regional powers about Beijing’s nuclear capability.


Second is nuclear power- new small modular reactors are coming now
Koch 11/20 (Wendy- USA today staff writer, 2012, “U.S. to fund small, modular nuclear reactors”, http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2012/11/20/obama-doe-fund-modular-nuclear-reactors/1717843/)
To develop a new generation of nuclear power, the Obama administration announced Tuesday that it will fund up to half the cost of a five-year project to design and commercialize small, modular reactors for the United States.¶ The Department of Energy said it aims to have these reactors, which have attracted private funding from investors including Bill Gates, in operation by 2022. It said it will negotiate the project's total cost with Babcock & Wilcox, an energy technology company based in Charlotte, that will lead the project in partnership with the Tennessee Valley Authority and Bechtel International.¶ "Low-carbon nuclear energy has an important role to play in America's energy future," Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in announcing the award, citing President Obama's push for an all-of-the-above energy strategy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions. He said DOE will accept funding requests from other companies developing such technology.¶ Small modular reactors (SMRs) are typically about one-third the size of current nuclear power plants. Although some of the technology has been used in naval propulsion plants, DOE says it's not been commercialized yet in the United States but could offer lower upfront costs, improved safety and greater flexibility. It says SMRs could be made in U.S. factories and moved to sites, including remote or small areas that cannot support large reactors, where they would be ready to "plug and play" upon arrival.¶ Several companies are developing small reactors, each with varying features. They include NuScale Power, Hyperion Power Generation, Toshiba, General Atomics, General Electric and TerraPower, in which Bill Gates is an investor.¶ The DOE co-funded project will be based in Tennessee. In a statement welcoming the award, Babcock & Wilcox said TVA is preparing an application to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to license up to four small modular reactors at its Clinch River Site in Oak Ridge, Tenn.¶ Each reactor is designed to provide 180 megawatts of power -- compared to about 1,000 megawatts for many large ones. Based on advanced pressurized water reactor technology, it can be contained entirely underground.¶ SMRs are "very promising," says Nicolas Loris, an energy policy analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation. He cites their potential for lower cost, clean energy and flexible use that could transform the nuclear industry, prompting greater competition. Yet he says the U.S. government should not be commercializing the technology but streamlining the licensing process.

Beryllium is key to nuke power
Passin 9—co-founder and manager of Firebird Global Fund and Firebird Global Fund II (James, James Passin: Rising Commodity Prices to Trigger Renaissance for Nuclear and Gold – interview with The Gold Report, 14 January 2009, http://www.uraniumseek.com/news/UraniumSeek/1231912801.php)
TGR: You talked before about the importance of beryllium for certain critical components inside nuclear reactors, because of a combination of physical properties—lightweight, strong, a high melting point, efficiency as a heat conductor, resistance to corrosion and a tendency to not absorb radiation. It's lightweight, strong, and resistant to corrosion. Could you update us on the outlook for beryllium now? JP: One of the most interesting potential applications of beryllium is in mixed oxide fuel technology. Purdue University is a world leader in mixed uranium oxide fuel research. A small company has licensed uranium-beryllium mix oxide fuel technology from Purdue University and is now collaborating with Purdue to commercialize the technology. Beryllium-uranium mixed oxide fuel, which could work in existing nuclear reactors, has the potential to dramatically reduce the need for uranium and also to improve the safety profile of nuclear reactors. There’s no substitute because of the unique thermal characteristics of beryllium. This technology has the potential to transform the economics and political acceptability of nuclear power. Aside from this potential application, beryllium is used in certain critical nuclear reactor components and therefore an interesting play on nuclear power plant construction. The technology could help ease the uranium shortage. There are some efforts required to complete research, but I have a strong degree of confidence in its commercial prospects.

China hoards Beryllium in Afghanistan
Burgess 10—editor, Wealth Daily (Luke, Afghanistan Mineral Discovery, 18 June 2010, http://www.wealthdaily.com/articles/afghanistan-mineral-discovery-a-1-trillion-find/2553)
The existence of rare earth elements in Afghanistan has been known since the 1970s. Among the rare earth elements found in the country are beryllium and lithium. Beryllium's traditional application is in radiation windows for X-ray tubes. However, because the radioactive metal burns cooler and allows more energy to be extracted, beryllium is quickly becoming the most sought after fuel for nuclear power plants. Wealth Daily's resident alternative energy expert, Jeff Siegel, details the exciting new nuclear applications for beryllium in his latest report, The Most Profitable Nuclear Advancement in 50 Years. Check out Jeff's report right here. There is only a handful of places in the world to find beryllium. A total of approximately 10 beryllium occurrences have been identified in Afghanistan's Laghman and Nangarhar provinces.

US key to global nuke power- our efforts are modeled globally
Rosner et. al. ‘11 (Robert Rosner, Robert Rosner is an astrophysicist and founding director of the Energy Policy Institute at Chicago. He was the director of Argonne National Laboratory from 2005 to 2009, and Stephen Goldberg, Energy Policy Institute at Chicago, The Harris School of Public Policy Studies, Joseph S. Hezir, Principal, EOP Foundation, Inc., Many people have made generous and valuable contributions to this study. Professor Geoff Rothwell, Stanford University, provided the study team with the core and supplemental analyses and very timely and pragmatic advice. Dr. J’Tia Taylor, Argonne National Laboratory, supported Dr. Rothwell in these analyses. Deserving special mention is Allen Sanderson of the Economics Department at the University of Chicago, who provided insightful comments and suggested improvements to the study. Constructive suggestions have been received from Dr. Pete Lyons, DOE Assistant Secretary of Nuclear Energy; Dr. Pete Miller, former DOE Assistant Secretary of Nuclear Energy; John Kelly, DOE Deputy Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Reactor Technologies; Matt Crozat, DOE Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy; Vic Reis, DOE Senior Advisor to the Under Secretary for Science; and Craig Welling, DOE Deputy Office Director, Advanced Reactor Concepts Office, as well as Tim Beville and the staff of DOE’s Advanced Reactor Concepts Office. The study team also would like to acknowledge the comments and useful suggestions the study team received during the peer review process from the nuclear industry, the utility sector, and the financial sector. Reviewers included the following: Rich Singer, VP Fuels, Emissions, and Transportation, MidAmerican Energy Co.; Jeff Kaman, Energy Manager, John Deere; Dorothy R. Davidson, VP Strategic Programs, AREVA; T. J. Kim, Director—Regulatory Affairs & Licensing, Generation mPower, Babcock & Wilcox; Amir Shahkarami, Senior Vice President, Generation, Exelon Corp.; Michael G. Anness, Small Modular Reactor Product Manager, Research & Technology, Westinghouse Electric Co.; Matthew H. Kelley and Clark Mykoff, Decision Analysis, Research & Technology, Westinghouse Electric Co.; George A. Davis, Manager, New Plant Government Programs, Westinghouse Electric Co.; Christofer Mowry, President, Babcock & Wilcox Nuclear Energy, Inc.; Ellen Lapson, Managing Director, Fitch Ratings; Stephen A. Byrne, Executive Vice President, Generation & Transmission Chief Operating Officer, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company; Paul Longsworth, Vice President, New Ventures, Fluor; Ted Feigenbaum, Project Director, Bechtel Corp.; Kennette Benedict, Executive Director, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientist; Bruce Landrey, CMO, NuScale; Dick Sandvik, NuScale; and Andrea Sterdis, Senior Manager of Strategic Nuclear Expansion, Tennessee Valley Authority. The authors especially would like to acknowledge the discerning comments from Marilyn Kray, Vice-President at Exelon, throughout the course of the study, “Small Modular Reactors – Key to Future Nuclear Power”, [[http://epic.uchicago.edu/sites/epic.uchicago.edu/files/uploads/SMRWhite_Paper_Dec.14.2011copy.pdf]], November 2011)
As stated earlier, SMRs have the potential to achieve significant greenhouse gas emission reductions. They could provide alternative base load power generation to facilitate the retirement of older, smaller, and less efficient coal generation plants that would, otherwise, not be good candidates for retrofitting carbon capture and storage technology. They could be deployed in regions of the U.S. and the world that have less potential for other forms of carbon-free electricity, such as solar or wind energy. There may be technical or market constraints, such as projected electricity demand growth and transmission capacity, which would support SMR deployment but not GW-scale LWRs. From the on-shore manufacturing perspective, a key point is that the manufacturing base needed for SMRs can be developed domestically. Thus, while the large commercial LWR industry is seeking to transplant portions of its supply chain from current foreign sources to the U.S., the SMR industry offers the potential to establish a large domestic manufacturing base building upon already existing U.S. manufacturing infrastructure and capability, including the Naval shipbuilding and underutilized domestic nuclear component and equipment plants. The study team learned that a number of sustainable domestic jobs could be created – that is, the full panoply of design, manufacturing, supplier, and construction activities – if the U.S. can establish itself as a credible and substantial designer and manufacturer of SMRs. While many SMR technologies are being studied around the world, a strong U.S. commercialization program can enable U.S. industry to be first to market SMRs, thereby serving as a fulcrum for export growth as well as a lever in influencing international decisions on deploying both nuclear reactor and nuclear fuel cycle technology. A viable U.S.-centric SMR industry would enable the U.S. to recapture technological leadership in commercial nuclear technology, which has been lost to suppliers in France, Japan, Korea, Russia, and, now rapidly emerging, China.

The global nuclear industry is dying now and fossil fuels are increasing – only nuclear power solves warming
Tat ‘12 (Chee Hong Tat, Chief Executive, Energy Market Authority of Singapore, “Singapore International Market Week Publication”, “SECURING OUR ENERGY FUTURE APRIL 2012”, LEQ)

Nuclear Faces The Long Road Back For the nuclear industry, recovery will depend on turning around public opinion u For the nuclear industry, Fukushima will stand as the fault line dividing two eras. Before the catastrophic events of March 2011, nuclear energy had been reborn as the clean energy of choice, having emerged from decades as the pariah of the energy family. But the earthquake and tsunami that ripped through the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant changed all of that, radically altering the energy landscape. For the atomic energy sector, it will be a long, hard and expensive road back. "Since the Fukushima disaster in Japan, the EU has begun to carry out comprehensive stress tests at its nuclear power plants," European Commissioner for Energy Mr GÜnther Oettinger said in a video pre- recorded for the Singapore International Energy Week (SIEW) 2011. "It [also] aims to put in place the most advanced legal framework for the sustainable use of nuclear energy." If anything, the Fukushima disaster has shown that nuclear power cannot operate in isolation, requiring instead a comprehensive and global approach to safety. "To strengthen nuclear safety world- wide, we would welcome other countries operating nuclear power plants to carry out similar assessments as soon as pos- sible," Mr Oettinger added. The International Energy Agency (IEA) has painted a gloomy picture of a world with what it calls a "low nuclear case". A reduced nuclear output will lead to "increased import bills, heightened energy security concerns, and make it harder and more expensive to combat climate change." In the immediate aftermath of the Fukushima disaster, Germany, Europe's biggest economy, closed eight of its 17 reactors permanently. It later formally announced plans to shut down its nuclear programme within 11 years. While nuclear has made a muted comeback since Fukushima – the US recently reaffirmed its commitment to nuclear by opening two new nuclear units, the first in 15 years, experts see continuing challenges that will make it very difficult for the nuclear power industry to expand beyond a small handful of reactor projects. China promises that nuclear can be made safer. In particular, its research into safer thorium fuel cycle technology has been applauded by the nuclear lobby. Despite this, experts say nuclear programmes worldwide are set to contract rather than expand. The low nuclear case foresees the total amount of nuclear power capacity fall- ing from 393GW at the end of 2010 to 335GW in 2035, a little more than half the levels previously set out in IEA's New Policies Scenario. New Policies Scenario The share of nuclear power in total gen- eration will drop from 13 per cent in 2010 to just seven per cent in 2035, with implications for energy security, diversity of the fuel mix, spending on energy imports, and energy-related CO2 emissions. "It is clear now that without nuclear, we cannot meet CO2 reduction targets," said IEA's former Executive Director, Mr Nobuo Tanaka, when he opened SIEW 2011 with his keynote lecture. Or, as the agency’s Chief Economist, Dr Fatih Birol, posits – make power in general "viciously more expensive" and close the door to 2°C forever. A shift away from nuclear power "would definitely be bad news for energy security, for climate change and also for the eco- A shift away from nuclear power would definitely be bad news for energy security, for climate change, and also for the economics of the electricity price nomics of the electricity price," he added. Research into small modular reactors (SMR) is still in its infancy although the reduced cost of a 10MW modular unit that could power about 7,000 homes, compared with the one million homes from a conven- tional reactor, is receiving attention. ThE EvEr- ShriNkiNG piE The drastically-altered landscape can be seen in IEA projections for nuclear. Under its 2010 outlook, there was to be a 90 per cent increase in nuclear capacity. This compares with its latest projection of 60 per cent for the same period from 2011. While there will now be heavy reliance on the lighter emissions of gas to meet green house targets, the nuclear disaster has been an unexpected fillip for the renewables and alternative energy sector. The rise was driven by the solar power industry, where the value of transac- tions jumped by 56 per cent to $15.8 billion, to account for almost one-third of take-overs, according to advisory firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. Nevertheless, analysts say any surge in renewable energy is likely to be eclipsed by a return to coal, with a powerfully negative effect on CO2 emissions. Even before the Japanese earthquake, the nuclear industry was struggling. Weak power demand due to the reces-sion and cheaper alternatives such as gas and coal made it difficult to justify the hefty investment in reactors. Only those plants with strong government backing were going ahead. With nuclear-agnostic countries dropping plans for civil nuclear indus- tries, China remains the last hope of the beleaguered sector. While China froze approvals of new nuclear plants follow- ing Fukushima, it has already restarted its programme and the country is set to dominate the nuclear landscape. The PRC's 2020 target of reaching 80,000MW of nuclear capacity, from 10,000MW last year, may have been reduced due to delays caused by Fukush- ima. Nevertheless, its ambitious projects are putting most of the other countries' nuclear plans in the shade. Meanwhile, other emerging econo- mies, including India and the United Arab Emirates, are also planning signifi- cant investments in new reactors. Nuclear’s share of electricity generation is also likely to slip as other forms of generation grow more quickly. In the developed world, the emphasis is on finding alternatives to nuclear power. In Japan, which derived some 30 per cent of its electricity from nuclear power plants prior to Fukushima, efforts to regain public support for restarting the re- actors have made little headway. Since the tsunami, 52 out of the nation's 54 reactors have been offline as of March 2012. One important litmus of the industry's health has been companies that service the nuclear energy marketplace. They, too, have been repositioning themselves in an increasingly unattractive market. Shaw, the US civil engineering com- pany, has sold its 20 per cent stake in nuclear engineering group Westinghouse Electric Company to Toshiba of Japan. Toshiba, for its part, plans to sell the holding to another investor. General Electric, the US industrial group that is one of the world's lead- ing nuclear engineers through its joint venture with Hitachi of Japan, has said it does not hold out much hope for market growth in the immediate future. It now expects nuclear power to decline in importance as other parts of the business grow more rapidly.



Warming causes extinction- tipping point
Dyer ‘12 (London-based independent journalist, PhD from King's College London, citing UC Berkeley scientists (Gwynne, "Tick, tock to mass extinction date," The Press, 6-19-12, l/n, accessed 8-15-12, mss)

Meanwhile, a team of respected scientists warn that life on Earth may be on the way to an irreversible "tipping point". Sure. Heard that one before, too. Last month one of the world's two leading scientific journals, Nature, published a paper, "Approaching a state shift in Earth's biosphere," pointing out that more than 40 per cent of the Earth's land is already used for human needs. With the human population set to grow by a further two billion by 2050, that figure could soon exceed 50 per cent. "It really will be a new world, biologically, at that point," said the paper's lead author, Professor Anthony Barnofsky of the University of California, Berkeley. But Barnofsky doesn't go into the details of what kind of new world it might be. Scientists hardly ever do in public, for fear of being seen as panic-mongers. Besides, it's a relatively new hypothesis, but it's a pretty convincing one, and it should be more widely understood. Here's how bad it could get. The scientific consensus is that we are still on track for 3 degrees C of warming by 2100, but that's just warming caused by human greenhouse- gas emissions. The problem is that +3 degrees is well past the point where the major feedbacks kick in: natural phenomena triggered by our warming, like melting permafrost and the loss of Arctic sea-ice cover, that will add to the heating and that we cannot turn off. The trigger is actually around 2C (3.5 degrees F) higher average global temperature. After that we lose control of the process: ending our own carbon- dioxide emissions would no longer be enough to stop the warming. We may end up trapped on an escalator heading up to +6C (+10.5F), with no way of getting off. And +6C gives you the mass extinction. There have been five mass extinctions in the past 500 million years, when 50 per cent or more of the species then existing on the Earth vanished, but until recently the only people taking any interest in this were paleontologists, not climate scientists. They did wonder what had caused the extinctions, but the best answer they could come up was "climate change". It wasn't a very good answer. Why would a warmer or colder planet kill off all those species? The warming was caused by massive volcanic eruptions dumping huge quantities of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere for tens of thousands of years. But it was very gradual and the animals and plants had plenty of time to migrate to climatic zones that still suited them. (That's exactly what happened more recently in the Ice Age, as the glaciers repeatedly covered whole continents and then retreated again.) There had to be a more convincing kill mechanism than that. The paleontologists found one when they discovered that a giant asteroid struck the planet 65 million years ago, just at the time when the dinosaurs died out in the most recent of the great extinctions. So they went looking for evidence of huge asteroid strikes at the time of the other extinction events. They found none. What they discovered was that there was indeed major warming at the time of all the other extinctions - and that the warming had radically changed the oceans. The currents that carry oxygen- rich cold water down to the depths shifted so that they were bringing down oxygen- poor warm water instead, and gradually the depths of the oceans became anoxic: the deep waters no longer had any oxygen. When that happens, the sulfur bacteria that normally live in the silt (because oxygen is poison to them) come out of hiding and begin to multiply. Eventually they rise all the way to the surface over the whole ocean, killing all the oxygen-breathing life. The ocean also starts emitting enormous amounts of lethal hydrogen sulfide gas that destroy the ozone layer and directly poison land- dwelling species. This has happened many times in the Earth's history.








===Contention 4- Solvency=== 

Only a Presidential Directive solves -- it aligns the necessary agencies and creates effective private sector involvement
Starr et al 10 (S. Frederick Starr and Andrew C. Kuchins with Stephen Benson, Elie Krakowski, Johannes Linn, Thomas Sanderson- Central Asia-Caucasus Institute & Silk Road Studies Program
In Cooperation with the Center for Strategic & International Studies, May, “The Key to Success in Afghanistan A Modern Silk Road Strategy”, [[http://www.silkroadstudies.org/new/docs/silkroadpapers/1005Afghan.pdf]])
Past experience suggests that an effort of this magnitude can best be set in motion by a Presidential Directive. That directive should lay out clearly the importance of initiating and sustaining such a strategy. It should appoint a senior official, preferably a Presidential Special Representative or Envoy, to head an Interagency Task Force of senior officers from relevant agencies. The Presidential Directive should also spell out the financial authority and resources of the new envoy and Task Force. The Presidential Envoy should be a prominent person with demonstrated executive ability. Such a person would work effectively with officials of the Republic of Afghanistan, ensure that issues relevant to the strategy receive focused and coordinated interagency attention, engage the private sector, and drive the process forward to meet strict deadlines. A major objective of the Presidential Envoy and Interagency Task Force would be to create the conditions necessary for private sector involvement and to remove or minimize obstacles thereto. The Interagency Task Force should comprise persons of senior decisionmaking authority from all relevant agencies and organizations within the U.S. Government. These would include the Departments of Defense (with the various relevant Military Commands and organizations, including Corps of Engineers), State (with USAID and other appropriate components), Commerce, Energy, Agriculture, and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The geographical reach of the Office of the Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan is narrower than what is needed here, and focused on different subject matter. But since the two states are integral to the new strategy, and since some of the subject matter of the two bodies overlaps, the Special Representative and his office should be an important part of the proposed Task Force. The possibility of placing this new major initiative under the aegis of a single Department was carefully considered but rejected.



Afghanistan has created the necessary framework for investment - private sector transportation development will jumpstart the initiative
Rassoul et al 11 (Zalmay Rassoul-The Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Hilary Clinton- The Secretary of State of the United States of America, Guido Westerwelle- The Foreign Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, September 22 2011, “Joint Statement of the Co-Chairs of the Ministerial Meeting on the New Silk Road”, http://www.state.gov/r/pa/prs/ps/2011/09/173801.htm)
The New Silk Road vision is a shared commitment to promote private-sector investment, increase regional trade and transit, and foster a network of linkages throughout the region. The creation of a New Silk Road will help Afghanistan and its neighbors maximize the value of natural resources, build human capacity, create jobs, generate revenue to pay for needed services, and capitalize on the region’s economic potential. The Government of Afghanistan is committed, consistent with the London and Kabul Conference Communiques, to continuing the regulatory and legal reform necessary to attract international private investment in key sectors, such as agriculture and the extractive industries. Economic cooperation among the states of the region will increase market access, promote security, and support the foundation for lasting peace. The international community, also consistent with the London and Kabul Conference Communiques, has an important role to play in supporting Afghanistan and the region’s efforts to make this vision a reality, both through its financial support and facilitation of private sector investment, through transition and beyond. There is significant opportunity for increased regional prosperity and stability through: the promotion of private sector investment, both domestic and foreign; the expansion of trade and commerce, including through implementation of regional and bilateral transit trade agreements; adoption of international best practices in border and customs controls; expanded consular visa cooperation and facilitation of business travel; expanded access to finance; prioritization of regional economic cooperation in respective national development agendas; and increased cooperation in the development of transport and energy networks, as well as mineral resources.



Encouraging private sector development is critical - it removes status quo barriers and fosters regional stability
Ritter 12 (Don Ritter- Member of Congress, Pennsylvania -15, Lehigh Valley, 1979-1993 Founder and Chairman, Afghanistan – America Foundation, 1996 - 2003 Executive Committee (Founding Board Member), Afghan-American Chamber of Commerce (AACC) 2002 - present Senior Advisor to AACC and the Afghan International Chamber of Commerce (AICC), now merged with the Afghanistan Chambers of Commerce and Industries (ACCI), 2004 and 2005 President &CEO, Afghan American Chamber of Commerce (AACC), Feb. 2009 to present, June 20 2012, “The New Silk Road Initiative – A Framework for Economic Growth and Peace”, pdf)
Significant amounts of the total New Silk Road investment will be undertaken by the public sector, including the Afghan government and the international community through aid. But a significant amount of the total investment will come from private sector interests -- from both wealthy Afghans from within and outside the region. Private sector investment is critical for the success of the NSRI for five key reasons. First, the levels of donor aid are going to decline sharply in coming years as the transition in the responsibility for national security moves from NATO/ISAF to the Afghan Security Forces. As this happens, the financial resources of the Afghan government available for initiatives such as this will also be shifting to more security related areas. Therefore, to be successful, the NSRI needs to attract private investment to augment available public resources. Private investment will be needed to fill the resource gap. Second, private sector investment is typically more productive than public sector investments. Private businesses are usually more focused and better able to employ methods to minimize costs and improve profitability in the delivery of goods and services. This attention on business efficiency will inevitably encourage improved productivity in the NSRI investments undertaken by the public sector and donors. The Afghan government is now giving the highest priority to ensuring effectiveness in all areas of investment, public and private, because of its critical importance in generating economic growth at the rates needed to increase employment and raise incomes thus reduce poverty and enhancing long-term stability. Third, Afghan economic growth and development will require diversified private sector investments in many new and different business areas. Among the major impediments that limit private investment are the security situation; undeveloped skills among Afghan workers, and a still developing legal and regulatory framework. These factors lead to uncertainty among investors concerning the ability to operate profitability in the Afghan market. Once potential investors can see private businesses demonstrate the ability to operate profitably in this market, these impediments will dissipate, creating a more conducive environment for additional investment opportunities. The investment opportunities that NSRI provides will contribute greatly to this process and need to be encouraged. Fourth, the NSRI is fundamentally regional, designed to encourage increased regional trade and investment. Closer economic ties will inevitably lead to closer political ties and improve the prospects for peace and stability in what has long been a volatile region. NSRI private investment will create improved commercial investment opportunities in other countries in the region and foster increased cross border trade. When each of the countries in the region has a significant stake in the politically stability and economic performance of their neighbours, the prospects for peace will be greatly enhanced. And fifth, the engagement of the private sector in New Silk Road investment opportunities will provide the experience and capacity for effective public-private partnerships. There has been much talk about entering into “public-private” partnerships, but few practical opportunities for actually doing so. The Afghan government appears committed to exploring innovative partnership arrangements and the NSRI offers an ideal program with which to develop these relationships.






==---Case---== 
===2AC AT: Russia War Good=== 
Prefer barret- from this month and indicates any risk of accidental launch causes extinction
Russia would attack us first post central Asian instability- takes out the first strike argument
Even a limited conflict risks extinction
Corcoran 9 – PhD, Senior Fellow @ Global Security
Ed, Ph.D., serves as a Senior Fellow on national security issues at GlobalSecurity.org., Frmr. Strategic Analyst at the US Army War College where he chaired studies for the Office of the Deputy Chief of Operations and member of the National Advisory Board for the Alsos Digital Library for Nuclear Issues, we win the qualification game, April 21, http://sitrep.globalsecurity.org/articles/090421301-strategic-nuclear-targets.htm
That brings us to Russia, our former main adversary, now a competitive partner and still a potential future adversary, particularly as relations have gradually soured in recent years. Russia is the only other nation with a formidable arsenal of some three thousand strategic weapons. Our opposing arsenals were built up in the period when Mutually Assured Destruction (MAD) was the underlying strategic concept -- each side deterred from striking the other by the prospect of assured retaliatory destruction. The situation became even madder as both sides worked to develop a capability to destroy the other's strike force with a crippling first strike. This resulted in further large increases in the sizes of the arsenals, as well as early warning systems and hair-trigger launch-on-warning alert procedures. The final result was an overall system in which each side could destroy the other in a matter of minutes. And it also raised another chilling specter, Nuclear Winter, in which the atmospheric dust raised from a major nuclear exchange would block sunlight for an extended period and essentially destroy human civilization globally.¶ The collapse of the Soviet Union collapsed this threat, but did not eliminate it. US and Russian nuclear forces remained frozen in adversarial positions. The May 2002 Moscow Treaty began to address this legacy and is leading to a reduction in strategic nuclear forces down to levels of about two thousand on each side by 2012. These levels are still sufficient to destroy not only both nations but also human civilization. It is hard to even construct scenarios where the use of even a few strategic nuclear weapons does not risk a total escalation. Strikes on Russian warning facilities or strike forces would almost certainly bring a wave of retaliatory strikes. Strikes on hardened command centers would be of questionable effectiveness and also risk total escalation. In addition, successful elimination of Russian leaders could greatly complicate any efforts to stop escalation short of a total nuclear exchange.

That’s an existential risk
Bostrom, 02 (Nick Bostrom, Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, March 2002, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards)
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization. Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

First strike would inevitably fail- we couldn’t even do it to china
Aby, 07 (The Liberal, “China’s MAD Nuclear Deterrence Against USA”, July 14th 2007, [[http://www.abytheliberal.com/world-politics/chinas-mad-nuclear-deterrance-usa]], KONTOPOULOS)

China’s nuclear force is based on a ‘No First Use‘ policy formulated by its erstwhile President Mao Zedong. This makes sense as China could not launch a first strike against US without facing obliteration in a strike-back by US. The small quantity of nuclear warheads and strategic missiles that China possesses, would make a Chinese attack on US nuclear facilities futile, as China has neither the accuracy of missiles nor the number of warheads required to destroy the all the US facilities. On the other hand United States, with its improvised and highly accurate strategic missiles (Trident and Minuteman) could strike and destroy over 75% of China’s nuclear facilities with just about 2-4% of its nuclear and missile arsenal spent. But even in the event of a war; a successful destruction of 75-80% of China’s nuclear facilities leaves at least 20-25% surviving, which can be used as a retaliatory attack against the United States. A 100% destruction of China’s nuclear facilities would be highly unlikely considering the logistical impossibility of targeting and destroying all of China’s mobile and SILO launched nuclear ICBMs. Since China can’t destroy US nuclear facilities, as a retaliatory resort it would strike what hurts USA most - its people. This is primarily the reason why US cities have been targets of Chinese ICBMs for the last few decades. A DF 5A (Dong Feng) missile launched from hardened or mobile SILOs in China’s Hunan province will have most of West and Central US in its reach. A 12000 km DF 5 Mod 2 goes even further, including east coast cities like New York and Atlanta in its range if a polar trajectory is followed. A DF 5A ICBM can carry a 3.5 MT (Megaton) thermonuclear warhead. The 3.5 MT warhead detonated at a height of 2500 meters would have a blast radius of 7 km, exposing 154 km2 of the ground surface to a blast overpressure of 10 psi or higher. In addition to the immediate energy shockwaves of the blast, such a high yield H-Bomb would also cause widespread radiation fallouts and heated firestorms due to the rapid changes in the atmospheric pressure which follow such an explosion. If a single such warhead is detonated over a busy megapolis like New York, Chicago or Los Angeles, at least 1.5 million people would be eliminated immediately during the explosion and a further million within another 72 hours due to radiation burns, sickness and firestorms. If only 5 of the DF 5As are launched against 5 US cities and 4 of them successfully strike the US mainland, more than 10 million people would face extermination. According to US DoD Reports to the Congress in 2006, a DF5A Mod2 can be MIRVed with 6 warheads of 250 KT each. In such a case, if each warhead detonates 1500 metres above the ground, the total blast radius (@10 psi) of all the six warheads would exceed 21 kms bringing over 1386 km2 under coverage. The fatalities from a single such strike on a city like New York or Chicago would exceed 5 million at the bare minimum. In such a scenario, if 4 of these missiles with 24 warheads strike 4-10 US cities with an accuracy of 83%, at least 14 million people would be annihilated in these cities. This still leaves out the DF 31A ICBMs and JL-1 SLBMs which could strike US targets and further the damage. From both the cases it can be understood than even a retaliatory second strike by China can inflict severe devastation on the continental US. These are just bare conservative estimates, reality could be much more deadly and devastating with 40-100 million casualties. Chinese military strategists can easily do this calculation themselves and as such it becomes apparent why China is so sure that its relatively small number of ICBMs act as an adequate deterrent against the United States or even India and Russia for that matter. The threat of even a few surviving nuclear missiles hitting the United States serves as a robust deterrent for the United States. China would not consider a first strike either, as it would face total annihilation due to the massive US nuclear and missile stockpile. Thus the MAD balance is maintained between these two countries, one wary of the other despite their significant disparity in nuclear weapons stockpile and delivery systems.

First strike would also shatter the nuclear taboo- makes war inevitable
Paul, 09 – Professor of International Relations at McGill (T.V., The Tradition of Non-Use of Nuclear Weapons, p. 192-193, KONTOPOULOS)

Emulation Risk States tend to emulate the defense policies of others, especially if they find that the leading actors are consistently pursuing a particular path. There is considerable fear that if the United States lowers the threshold of nuclear use, it may encourage other nuclear states, including the new ones, Israel, India, Pakistan, North Korea, and possibly Iran, to lower their threshold of use as well. "Until now the United States has reserved nuclear weapons for retaliation against nuclear attacks or immediate threats to national survival, a standard tacitly but widely accepted around the world."" If the United States engages in nuclear saber rattling, especially on the basis of dubious intelligence (as happened in the case on Iraq's VVMD capabilities), it may have a hard time convincing other states to exercise nuclear restraint, especially if they perceive an immediate strategic advantage in not doing so. 'Ihe U.S. strategic doctrine of deterrence was emulated by the Soviet Union, and, to a lesser extent, by the other NWS. The new U.S. policy of using nuclear weapons against chemical and biological weapons use has already been emulated by Russia, Britain, France, and India. A similar emulation could occur in the area of nuclear use as well.

Bioterrorism is exaggerated- won’t cause extinction
Arms Control Center ‘10 (Scientists Working Group on Biological and Chemical Weapons, report in response to the Graham-Talent Commission report on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism, Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, “Biological threats: a matter of balance” January 26, google)
• The bioterrorist threat has been greatly exaggerated. • New bioweapons assessments are needed that take into account the complex set of social and technical issues that shape bioweapons development and use by state and non-state actors, and that focus on more plausible threats than the worst-case scenarios that have largely driven discussion to date. • Continuing to emphasize and spend billions of dollars on measures to specifically counter bioterrorist threat scenarios distorts our national understanding of the important issues in public health, and diverts scarce scientific talent and resources away from more pressing public health and natural disease threats. • While it has been argued that spin-offs from biodefense programs contribute to countering natural diseases, the converse is more likely: direct targeting of effort and expenditure on natural disease threats would provide much greater public health benefit, and spin-offs from these programs would significantly strengthen resistance to bioterrorism. • Bioterrorist threats need to be seen and addressed within a wider public health context--as just one of the many possible ways in which infectious agents may harm human, animal, and plant health How Serious is the Bioterrorist Threat? • Beginning in the early 1990s, an increasing amount was written about the threat of bioterrorism. Prior to 2001 most examples of “bioterrorism” were in fact hoaxes or were only tenuously related to actual threats, with the single exception of the use of Salmonella to contaminate salad bars in Oregon in 1984. Much was made of the Japanese group Aum Shinrykio’s unsuccessful attempts to use anthrax and botulinum toxin without drawing the simple and obvious lesson that achieving success in such attempts is difficult. The 2001 anthrax letters were seen as validating large scale and catastrophic threat scenarios, despite the very real difficulties that isolated individuals or small groups would have had in making such material. By the time the source of those letters was identified in August 2008 as a government laboratory with capabilities vastly in excess of those of any terrorist organization, biodefense programs costing tens of billions of dollars were already established, producing a potent and vocal constituency for continued and increased funding. • Offensive, including terrorist, use of biological agents presents major technical problems. This is why the Soviet Union, United States, United Kingdom and others needed to spend vast sums for decades in order to research and develop biological weapons. Even then the results were considered an unreliable form of warfare, and there was little opposition to their elimination by international agreement (indeed the US unilaterally eliminated its biological weapons stockpiles). • Fictional bioterrorism exercises such as Atlantic Storm and Dark Winter routinely used unrealistic values for critical parameters and were unrealizable by putative perpetrators. They tended to gloss over the very real problems involved in acquiring, growing and disseminating smallpox virus on a sufficient scale to represent a major threat. They also posited unreasonable assumptions about issues such as the rate of disease spread, which skewed the outcomes towards inflated and unlikely results.


===2AC Methane Feedback=== 
Methane outweighs
Light ‘12 (Malcolm, PhD, University of London – Earth science and climate consultant, “Global Extinction within one Human Lifetime as a Result of a Spreading Atmospheric Arctic Methane Heat wave and Surface Firestorm,” [[http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/p/global-extinction-within-one-human.html]])

Although the sudden high rate Arctic methane increase at Svalbard in late 2010 data set applies to only a short time interval, similar sudden methane concentration peaks also occur at Barrow point and the effects of a major methane build-up has been observed using all the major scientific observation systems. Giant fountains/torches/plumes of methane entering the atmosphere up to 1 km across have been seen on the East Siberian Shelf. This methane eruption data is so consistent and aerially extensive that when combined with methane gas warming potentials, Permian extinction event temperatures and methane lifetime data it paints a frightening picture of the beginning of the now uncontrollable global warming induced destabilization of the subsea Arctic methane hydrates on the shelf and slope which started in late 2010. This process of methane release will accelerate exponentially, release huge quantities of methane into the atmosphere and lead to the demise of all life on earth before the middle of this century. Introduction The 1990 global atmospheric mean temperature is assumed to be 14.49 oC (Shakil, 2005; NASA, 2002; DATAWeb, 2012) which sets the 2 oC anomaly above which humanity will lose control of her ability to limit the effects of global warming on major climatic and environmental systems at 16.49 oC (IPCC, 2007). The major Permian extinction event temperature is 80 oF (26.66 oC) which is a temperature anomaly of 12.1766 oC above the 1990 global mean temperature of 14.49 oC (Wignall, 2009; Shakil, 2005). Results of Investigation Figure 1 shows a huge sudden atmospheric spike like increase in the concentration of atmospheric methane at Svalbard north of Norway in the Arctic reaching 2040 ppb (2.04 ppm)(ESRL/GMO, 2010 - Arctic - Methane - Emergency - Group.org). The cause of this sudden anomalous increase in the concentration of atmospheric methane at Svalbard has been seen on the East Siberian Arctic Shelf where a recent Russian - U.S. expedition has found widespread, continuous powerful methane seepages into the atmosphere from the subsea methane hydrates with the methane plumes (fountains or torches) up to 1 km across producing an atmospheric methane concentration 100 times higher than normal (Connor, 2011). Such high methane concentrations could produce local temperature anomalies of more than 50 oC at a conservative methane warming potential of 25. Figure 2 is derived from the Svalbard data in Figure 1 and the methane concentration data has been used to generate a Svalbard atmospheric temperature anomaly trend using a methane warming potential of 43.5 as an example. The huge sudden anomalous spike in atmospheric methane concentration in mid August, 2010 at Svalbard is clearly evident and the methane concentrations within this spike have been used to construct a series of radiating methane global warming temperature trends for the entire range of methane global warming potentials in Figure 3 from an assumed mean start temperature of -3.575 degrees Centigrade for Svalbard (see Figure 2) (Norwegian Polar Institute; 2011). Figure 3 shows a set of radiating Arctic atmospheric methane global warming temperature trends calculated from the steep methane atmospheric concentration gradient at Svalbard in 2010 (ESRL/GMO, 2010 - Arctic-Methane-Emergency-Group.org). The range of extinction temperature anomalies above the assumed 1990 mean atmospheric temperature of 14.49 oC (Shakil, 2005) are also shown on this diagram as well as the 80 oF (26.66 oC) major Permian extinction event temperature (Wignall, 2009). Sam Carana (pers. com. 7 Jan, 2012) has described large December 2011 (ESRL-NOAA data) warming anomalies which exceed 10 to 20 degrees centigrade and cover vast areas of the Arctic at times. In the centres of these regions, which appear to overlap the Gakkel Ridge and its bounding basins, the temperature anomalies may exceed 20 degrees centigrade. See this site:[[@http://www.esrl.noaa.gov/psd/map/images/fnl/sfctmpmero1a30frames.fnl.anim.html]] The temperature anomalies in this region of the Arctic for the period from September 8 2011 to October 7, 2011 were only about 4 degrees Centigrade above normal (Carana, pers. com. 2012) and this data set can be seen on this site: [[@http://arctic-newsblogspot.com/p/arctic-temperatures.html]] Because the Svalbard methane concentration data suggests that the major spike in methane emissions began in late 2010 it has been assumed for calculation purposes that the 2010 temperature anomalies peaked at 4 degrees Centigrade and the 2011 anomalies at 20 degrees Centigrade in the Gakkel Ridge region. The assumed 20 degree Centigrade temperature anomaly trend from 2010 to 2011 in the Gakkel Ridge region requires a methane gas warming potential of about 1000 to generate it from the Svalbard methane atmospheric concentration spike data in 2010. Such high methane warming potentials could only be active over a very short time interval (less than 5.7 months) as shown when the long methane global warming potential lifetimes data from the IPCC (2007; 1992) and Dessus, Laponte and Treut (2008 ) are used to generate a global warming potential growth curve with a methane global warming potential of 100 with a lifespan of 5 years. Because of the high methane global warming potential (1000) of the 2011, 20 oC temperature anomalies in the Gakkel Ridge region, the entire methane global warming potential range from 5 to 1000 has been used to construct the radiating set of temperature trends shown in Figure 3. The 50, 100, 500 and 1000 methane global warming potential (GWP) trends are red and in bold. The choice of a high temperature methane peak with a global warming potential near 1000 is in fact very conservative because the 16 oC increase is assumed to occur over a year. The observed ESRL-NOAA Arctic temperature anomalies varied from 4 to 20 degrees over less than a month in 2011 (Sam Carana, pers. comm. 2012). […] . This very narrow temperature range includes all the mathematically and visually determined extinction times and their means for the northern and southern hemispheres which were calculated quite separately (Figure 7; Table 1). Once the world's ice caps have completely melted away at temperatures above 22.49 oC and times later than 2051.3, the Earth's atmosphere will heat up at an extremely fast rate to reach the Permian extinction event temperature of 80oF (26.66 oC)(Wignall, 2009) by which time all life on Earth will have been completely extinguished. The position where the latent heat of ice melting curve intersects the 8 oC extinction line (22.49 oC) at 2051.3 represents the time when 100 percent of all the ice on the surface of the Earth will have melted. If we make this point on the latent heat of ice melting curve equal to 1 we can determine the time of melting of any fraction of the Earth's icecaps by using the time*temperature function at each time from 2051.3 back to 2015, the time the average Arctic atmospheric temperature curve is predicted to exceed 0 oC. The process of melting 1 kg of ice and heating the produced water up to a certain temperature is a function of the sum of the latent heat of melting of ice is 334 kilo Joules/kg and the final water temperature times the 4.18 kilo Joules/Kg.K (Wikipedia, 2012). This however represents the energy required over a period of one second to melt 1 kg of ice to water and raise it to the ambient temperature. Therefore the total energy per mass of ice over a certain time period is equal to (334 +(4.18*Ambient Temperature)*time in seconds that the melted water took to reach the ambient temperature. From the fractional time*temperature values at each ambient temperature the fractional amounts of melting of the total global icecaps have been calculated and are shown on Figure 9. The earliest calculated fractional volume of melting of the global ice caps in 2016 is 1.85*10^-3 of the total volume of global ice with an average yearly rate of ice melting of 2.557*10^-3 of the total volume of global ice. This value is remarkably similar to, but slightly less than the average rate of melting of the Arctic sea ice measured over an 18 year period of 2.7*10^-3 (1978 to 1995; 2.7% per decade - IPCC 2007).This close correlation between observed rates of Arctic ice cap and predicted rates of global ice cap melting indicates that average rates of Arctic ice cap melting between 1979 and 2015 (which represents the projected time the Arctic will lose its ice cover - Masters, 2009) will be continued during the first few years of melting of the global ice caps after the Arctic ice cover has gone in 2015 as the mean Arctic atmospheric temperature starts to climb above 0 oC. However from 2017 the rate of melting of the global ice will start to accelerate as will the atmospheric temperature until by 2049 it will be more than 9 times as fast as it was around 2015 (Table 2). The mean rate of melting of the global icecap between 2017 and 2049 is some 2*10^-2, some 7.4 times the mean rate of melting of the Arctic ice cap (Table 2). In concert with the increase in rate of global ice cap melting between 2017 and 2049, the acceleration in the rate of melting also increases from 7*10^-4 to 9.9*10^-4 with a mean value close to 8.6*10^-4 (Table 2). The ratio of the acceleration in the rate of global ice cap melting to the Arctic ice cap melting increases from 3.4 in 2017 to 4.8 by 2049 with a mean near 4.2. This fast acceleration in the rate of global ice cap melting after 2015 compared to the Arctic sea ice cap melting before 2015 is because the mean Arctic atmospheric temperature after 2017 is spiraling upward in temperature above 0 oC adding large amounts of additional energy to the ice and causing it to melt back more quickly. The melt back of the Arctic ice cap is a symptom of the Earth's disease but not its cause and it is the cause that has to be dealt with if we hope to bring about a cure. Therefore a massive cut back in carbon dioxide emissions should be mandatory for all developed nations (and some developing nations as well). Total destruction of the methane in the Arctic atmosphere is also mandatory if we are to survive the effects of its now catastrophic rate of build up in the atmospheric methane concentration However cooling of the Arctic using geoengineering methods is also vitally important to reduce the effects of the ice cap melting further enhancing the already out of control destabilization of the methane hydrates on the Arctic shelf and slope. · Developed (and some developing) countries must cut back their carbon dioxide emissions by a very large percentage (50% to 90%) by 2020 to immediately precipitate a cooling of the Earth and its crust. If this is not done the earthquake frequency and methane emissions in the Arctic will continue to grow exponentially leading to our inexorable demise between 2031 to 2051. · Geoenginering must be used immediately as a cooling method in the Arctic to counteract the effects of the methane buildup in the short term. However these methods will lead to further pollution of the atmosphere in the long term and will not solve the earthquake induced Arctic methane buildup which is going to lead to our annihilation. · The United States and Russia must immediately develop a net of powerful radio beat frequency transmission stations around the Arctic using the critical 13.56 MHZ beat frequency to break down the methane in the stratosphere and troposphere to nanodiamonds and hydrogen (Light 2011a) . Besides the elimination of the high global warming potential methane, the nanodiamonds may form seeds for light reflecting noctilucent clouds in the stratosphere and a light coloured energy reflecting layer when brought down to the Earth by snow and rain (Light 2011a). HAARP transmission systems are able to electronically vibrate the strong ionospheric electric current that feeds down into the polar areas and are thus the least evasive method of directly eliminating the buildup of methane in those critical regions (Light 2011a). The warning about extinction is stark. It is remarkable that global scientists had not anticipated a giant buildup of methane in the atmosphere when it had been so clearly predicted 10 to 20 years ago and has been shown to be critically linked to extinction events in the geological record (Kennett et al. 2003). Furthermore all the experiments should have already been done to determine which geoengineering methods were the most effective in oxidising/destroying the methane in the atmosphere in case it should ever build up to a concentration where it posed a threat to humanity. Those methods need to be applied immediately if there is any faint hope of reducing the catastrophic heating effects of the fast building atmospheric methane concentration.

===2AC CO2 Ag=== 
We control uniqueness – ag collapsing now
Gillis 11
Justin Gillis, Editor @ NYT, 6-11-2011, “A Warming Planet Struggles to Feed Itself,” Factiva
Sitting with a group of his fellow wheat farmers, Francisco Javier Ramos Bours voiced a suspicion. Water shortages had already arrived in recent years for growers in his region, the Yaqui Valley, which sits in the Sonoran Desert of northwestern Mexico. In his view, global climate change could well be responsible. “All the world is talking about it,” Mr. Ramos said as the other farmers nodded. Farmers everywhere face rising difficulties: water shortages as well as flash floods. Their crops are afflicted by emerging pests and diseases and by blasts of heat beyond anything they remember. In a recent interview on the far side of the world, in northeastern India, a rice farmer named Ram Khatri Yadav offered his own complaint about the changing climate. “It will not rain in the rainy season, but it will rain in the nonrainy season,” he said. “The cold season is also shrinking.”

CO2 leads to increased invasive species- destroys food production- it also kills animal pollination
Kjohl et al. 11- Mariken Kjøhl, Anders Nielsen and Nils Christian Stenseth, Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis Department of Biology, University of Oslo, 2011
(http://www.fao.org/docrep/014/i2242e/i2242e.pdf)
Invasive species Invasive species may benefit from climatic changes and proliferate in their new habitats. Climate change is predicted to increase invasion of alien species, especially in northern regions. However, the effects of climate change on invasive species and pollination interactions may vary depending on the species and ecosystem in focus (Schweiger et al. 2010). It is necessary to assess the controllability of invaders in order to assist policy makers in ranking threats from different invasive species for more effective use of limited resources (Ceddia et al. 2009). Pest species, pesticides and pathogens Some invasive insect and plant species are pest organisms, which may cause severe damage to agricultural production. It is expected that climate change will affect various types of pests in different ways (Garrett et al. 2006; Ghini and Morandi 2006). Increased temperatures may speed up pathogen growth rates. Warming may also favour weeds in comparison to crops and increase the abundance, growth rate and geographic range of many crop-attacking insect pests (Cerri et al. 2007). Increased demand for control of plant pests often involves the use of pesticides, which can have negative impacts on human health and the environment (Damalas 2009), including ecosystem services such as pollination. Diffenbaugh et al. (2008) assessed the potential future ranges of pest species by using empirically generated estimates of pest overwintering thresholds and degree-day requirements along with climate change projections from climate models.


Food price shocks makes food war inev
Teslik, 08 – Assistant Editor at Council on Foreign Relations (Lee Hudson, “Food Prices”, 6/30/2008, http://www.cfr.org/publication/16662/food_prices.html)
Before considering factors like supply and demand within food markets, it is important to understand the umbrella factors influencing costs of production and, even more broadly, the currencies with which and economies within which food is traded. Energy Prices. Rising energy prices have direct causal implications for the food market. Fuel is used in several aspects of the agricultural production process, including fertilization, processing, and transportation. The percentage of total agricultural input expenditures directed toward energy costs has risen significantly in recent years. A briefing from the U.S. Department of Agriculture notes that the U.S. agricultural industry’s total expenditures on fuel and oil are forecast to rise 12.6 percent in 2008, following a rise of 11.5 percent in 2007. These costs are typically passed along to customers and are reflected in global spot prices (i.e. the current price a commodity trades for at market). The input costs of electricity have also risen, furthering the burden. Though it isn’t itself an energy product, fertilizer is an energy-intensive expense, particularly when substantial transport costs are borne by local farmers—so that expense, too, is reflected in the final price of foodstuffs. (Beyond direct causation, energy prices are also correlated to food prices, in the sense that many of the same factors pushing up energy prices—population trends, for instance, or market speculation—also affect food prices.) Currencies/Inflation. When food is traded internationally—particularly on commodities exchanges or futures markets—it is often denominated in U.S. dollars. In recent years, the valuation of the dollar has fallen with respect to many other major world currencies. This means that even if food prices stayed steady with respect to a basket of currencies, their price in dollars would have risen. Of course, food prices have not stayed steady—they have risen across the board—but if you examine international food prices in dollar terms, it is worth noting that the decline of the dollar accentuates any apparent price increase. Demand Demand for most kinds of food has risen in the past decade. This trend can be attributed to several factors: Population trends. The world’s population has grown a little more than 12 percent in the past decade. Virtually nobody argues that this trend alone accounts for rising food prices—agricultural production has, in many cases, become more efficient, offsetting the needs of a larger population—and some analysts say population growth hasn’t had any impact whatsoever on food prices. The shortcomings of a Malthusian food-price argument are most obvious in the very recent past. Richard Posner, a professor of law and economics at the University of Chicago, argues this point on his blog. He notes that in 2007 the food price index used by the FAO rose 40 percent, as compared to 9 percent in 2006—clearly a much faster rate than global population growth for that year, which measured a little over 1 percent. Nonetheless, experts say population trends, distinct from sheer growth rates, have had a major impact on food prices. For instance, the past decade has seen the rapid growth of a global middle class. This, Posner says, has led to changing tastes, and increasing demand for food that is less efficient to produce. Specifically, he cites an increased demand for meats. Livestock require farmland for grazing (land that could be used to grow other food), and also compete directly with humans for food resources like maize. The production of one serving of meat, economists say, is vastly less efficient than the production of one serving of corn or rice. Biofuels. Experts say government policies that provide incentives for farmers to use crops to produce energy, rather than food, have exacerbated food shortages. Specifically, many economists fault U.S. policies diverting maize crops to the production of ethanol and other biofuels. The effects of ramped-up U.S. ethanol production—which President Bush called for as part of an initiative to make the United States “energy independent”—was highlighted in a 2007 Foreign Affairs article by C. Ford Runge and Benjamin Senauer. Runge and Senauer write that the push to increase ethanol production has spawned ethanol subsidies in many countries, not just the United States. Brazil, they note, produced 45.2 percent of the world’s ethanol in 2005 (from sugar cane), and the United States 44.5 percent (from corn). Europe also produces biodiesel, mostly from oilseeds. In all cases, the result is the diversion of food products from global food markets, accentuating demand, pinching supply, and pushing up prices. Joachim von Braun, the director general of IFPRI, writes in an April 2008 briefing (PDF) that 30 percent of all maize produced in the United States (by far the largest maize producer in the world) will be diverted to biofuel production in 2008. This raises prices not only for people buying maize directly, but also for those buying maize products (cornflakes) or meat from livestock that feed on maize (cattle). Speculation. Many analysts point to speculative trading practices as a factor influencing rising food prices. In May 2008 testimony (PDF) before the U.S. Senate’s Committee on Homeland Security, Michael W. Masters, the managing partner of the hedge fund Masters Capital Management, explained the dynamic. Masters says institutional investors like hedge funds and pension funds started pouring money into commodities futures markets in the early 2000s, pushing up futures contracts and, in turn, spot prices. Spot traders often use futures markets as a benchmark for what price they are willing to pay, so even if futures contracts are inflated by an external factor like a flood of interest from pension funds, this still tends to result in a bump for spot prices. Still, much debate remains about the extent to which speculation in futures markets in fact pushes up food prices. “In general we [economists] think futures markets are a good reflection of what’s likely to happen in the real future,” says IFPRI’s Orden. Orden acknowledges that more capital has flowed into agricultural commodities markets in recent years, but says that he “tends to think these markets are pretty efficient and that you shouldn’t look for a scapegoat in speculators.” Supply Even as demand for agricultural products has risen, several factors have pinched global supply. These include: Development/urbanization. During the past half decade, global economic growth has featured expansion throughout emerging markets, even as developed economies in the United States, Europe, and Japan have cooled. The economies of China, India, Russia, numerous countries in Southeast Asia, Latin America, and Eastern Europe, and a handful of achievers in the Middle East and Africa have experienced strong economic growth rates. This is particularly true in Asian cities, where industrial and service sector development has clustered. The result has often been a boost for per capita earnings but a drag on domestic agriculture, as discussed in this backgrounder on African agriculture. Farmland has in many cases been repurposed for urban or industrial development projects. Governments have not, typically, been as eager to invest in modernizing farm equipment or irrigation techniques as they have been to sink money into urban development. All this has put an increased burden on developing-world farmers, precisely as they dwindle in number and supply capacity. Production capacity in other parts of the world has increased by leaps and bounds as efficiency has increased, and, as previously noted, total global production exceeds global demand. But urbanization opens markets up to other factors—transportation costs and risks, for instance, which are particularly high in less accessible parts of the developing world—and prevent the smooth functioning of trade, even where there are willing buyers and sellers. Weather. Some of the factors leading to recent price increases have been weather-related factors that tightened supply in specific markets. In 2008, for instance, two major weather events worked in concert to squeeze Asian rice production—Cyclone Nargis, which led to massive flooding and the destruction of rice harvests in Myanmar; and a major drought in parts of Australia. Estimates indicate Myanmar’s flooding instantly destroyed a substantial portion of Myanmar’s harvest, limiting the country’s ability to export rice. Meanwhile, Australia’s drought wiped out 98 percent of the country’s rice harvest in 2008, forcing Canberra to turn to imports and further straining Asia’s rice market. Trade policy. Agricultural trade barriers have long been faulted for gumming up trade negotiations, including the Doha round of World Trade Organization talks. But in the midst of the recent food pinch, a different kind of trade barrier has emerged as a problem—export bans. As discussed before (in the instance of the Philippines meeting difficulty in its efforts to import rice), several exporters have tightened the reins in light of domestic supply concerns. According to the UN’s World Food Program, over forty countries have imposed some form of export ban in an effort to increase domestic food security. India, for instance, imposed bans on exporting some forms of rice and oil in June 2008—a move that took food off the market, led to stockpiling, and brought a spike in prices. China, Kazakhstan, and Indonesia, among other countries, have introduced similar bans. The distorting effects of these barriers are particularly troubling in the developing world, where a much larger percentage of average household income is spent on food. The African Development Bank warned in May 2008 that similar moves among African countries could rapidly exacerbate food concerns on the African continent. A group of West African countries, meanwhile, sought to mitigate the negative effects of export bans by exempting one another. Food aid policy and other policies. Experts say flaws in food aid policies have limited its effectiveness and in some cases exacerbated price pressures on food. CFR Senior Fellow Laurie Garrett discusses some of these factors in a recent working paper. Garrett cites illogical aid policies such as grants for irrigation and mechanization of crop production that the Asian Development Bank plans to give to Bangladesh, a densely populated country without “a spare millimeter of arable land.” Garrett also criticizes food aid policies (U.S. aid policies are one example) that mandate food aid to be doled out in the form of crops grown by U.S. farmers, rather than cash. The rub, she says, is that food grown in the United States is far more expensive, both to produce and to transport, than food grown in recipient countries. Such a policy guarantees that the dollar value of donations goes much less far than it would if aid were directed to funds that could be spent in local markets. Other experts note additional policies that limit supply. In a recent interview with CFR.org, Paul Collier, an economics professor at Oxford University, cites European bans on genetically modified crops as a prime example.


===2AC Nuke Power Solves Wetlands=== 
Nuclear power provides clean water for wetland creation
Wester 2k (Kenneth- Mississippi School for Mathematics and Science Columbus, Mississippi, Date based on data in Article, “Nuclear Energy- The Benefits of Nuclear Energy”, http://www.fi.edu/guide/wester/benefits.html)
Nuclear power also provides water quality and aquatic life conservation. Water discharged from a nuclear power plant contains no harmful pollutants and meets regulatory standards for temperature designed to protect aquatic life. This water, used for cooling, never comes in contact with radioactive materials. If the water from the plant is so warm that it may harm marine life, it is cooled before it is discharged to its source river, lake, or bay as it is either mixed with water in a cooling pond or pumped through a cooling tower.¶ Because the areas around nuclear power plants and their cooling ponds are so clean, they are often developed as wetlands that provide nesting areas for waterfowl and other birds, new habitats for fish, and the preservation of other wildlife as well as trees, flowers, and grasses. Many energy companies have created special nature parks or wildlife sanctuaries on plant sites.

Wetlands are key to the hydro cycle – the impact is extinction
Ramsar Convention, 1996, “Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, Wetlands and Biodiversity, Executive Summary”, [[http://www.ramsar.org/about/about_biodiversity.htm]], ACC: 12.20.08, p. online
Wetlands - including (inter alia) rivers, lakes, marshes, estuaries, lagoons, mangroves, seagrass beds, and peatlands - are among the most precious natural resources on Earth. These highly varied ecosystems are natural areas where water accumulates for at least part of the year. Driven by the hydrological cycle, water is continuously being recycled through the land, sea and atmosphere in a process which ensures the maintenance of ecological functions. Wetlands support high levels of biological diversity: they are, after tropical rainforests, amongst the richest ecosystems on this planet, providing essential life support for much of humanity, as well as for other species. Coastal wetlands, which may include estuaries, seagrass beds and mangroves, are among the most productive, while coral reefs contain some of the highest known levels of biodiversity (nearly one-third of all known fish species live on coral reefs). Other wetlands also offer sanctuary to a wide variety of plants, invertebrates, fishes, amphibians, reptiles and mammals, as well as to millions of both migratory and sedentary waterbirds. Wetlands are not only sites of exceptional biodiversity, they are also of enormous social and economic value, in both traditional and contemporary societies. Since ancient times, people have lived along water courses, benefiting from the wide range of goods and services available from wetlands. The development of many of the great civilisations was largely based on their access to, and management of, wetland resources. Wetlands are an integral part of the hydrological cycle, playing a key role in the provision and maintenance of water quality and quantity as the basis of all life on earth. They are often interconnected with other wetlands, and they frequently constitute rich and diverse transition zones between aquatic ecosystems and terrestrial ecosystems such as forests and grasslands.


===2AC SMR’s Solve Warming=== 
scientific consensus is on our side
Bowman 8—President and CEO of the Nuclear Energy Institute [Frank L., States News Service, Testimony before the Committee on House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Air Quality, “GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION REDUCTION,” 2008, L/n]

First, we see a growing consensus that any credible program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. and worldwide will require a portfolio of technologies and approaches, and that nuclear energy is an indispensable part of that portfolio. This conclusion is supported by an impressive body of mainstream research and analysis. And second, we believe it is imperative to address the major investment challenge facing the electric power sector as it seeks to develop and deploy the low-carbon and zero-carbon technologies necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Federal legislation must obviously include targets and timetables for carbon reduction, but legislation must also help provide industry the technology and the means to achieve those targets and timetables. In our view, that will require an aggressive program of financing support-more aggressive and ambitious than anything in place today. The growing body of mainstream research and analysis shows that nuclear power is an important part of the portfolio required to reduce carbon emissions. The most recent came from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)'s International Energy Agency (IEA) last week. The IEA's 2008 Energy Technologies Perspective asserts that "A global revolution is needed in ways that energy is supplied and used. Far greater energy efficiency is a core requirement. Renewables, nuclear power, and CO2 capture and storage must be deployed on a massive scale." Last week's IEA report amplifies the findings in its World Energy Outlook, the pre-eminent global energy forecast, which was published earlier this year. In the 2008 edition of that forecast, the IEA analyzed what must be done to stabilize the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere at 450 parts per million (ppm)-the level judged necessary by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to avoid irreversible damage. In that scenario, world nuclear generating capacity more than doubles-from 368 gigawatts today to 833 gigawatts in 2030. Even with this ambitious growth, the additional nuclear capacity does not shoulder the entire carbon reduction load: end-use energy efficiency, improved efficiency of coal-fired power plants, and major gains in CO2 capture and storage are also necessary. This conclusion-that nuclear power is an essential component of any carbon reduction initiative- is unambiguous and beyond question. It is shared by leaders and governments around the world, including Yvo de Boer, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Mr. de Boer said last July that he had never seen a credible scenario for reducing carbon emissions that did not include nuclear energy. In addition to policy leaders, the world's scientific community agrees that nuclear energy must play a significant role in meeting the dual challenges of electricity production and greenhouse gas reduction. The most recent assessment report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change identifies nuclear energy as one of the "key mitigation technologies." Closer to home, analyses of the various legislative proposals that have come before Congress, including the modeling conducted by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Energy Information Administration, all show that nuclear plant construction must accelerate in a carbonconstrained world. In EIA's analysis of the Lieberman-Warner legislation, the model forecasts more new nuclear capacity than could realistically be built during the forecast period. And in those modeling runs where nuclear energy expansion is constrained, carbon emissions and carbon prices are higher, electric sector consumption of natural gas soars, electricity and gas prices are higher, and GDP losses are greater.

===2AC AT: Prolif Impact=== 
Strong US nuclear development is key to US prolif leadership
Bengelsdorf et al. 7—consultant and former director of both key State and Energy Department offices that are concerned with international nuclear and nonproliferation affairs [Harold, “The U.S. Domestic Civil Nuclear Infrastructure and U.S. Nonproliferation Policy”, White Paper prepared for the American Council on Global Nuclear Competitiveness May, [[http://www.nuclearcompetitiveness.org/images/COUNCIL_WHITE_PAPER_Final.pdf%5d%20|http://www.nuclearcompetitiveness.org/images/COUNCIL_WHITE_PAPER_Final.pdf] ]]

The U.S. has and should continue to be able to influence the nonproliferation regime as a superpower in the years ahead. However, a policy that significantly strengthens the U.S. civil nuclear infrastructure will not only help the United States to build new nuclear power plants, but will also enhance its ability to advance its nonproliferation agenda. The U.S. will need to actively pursue several key objectives New Nuclear Plant Orders Consumer countries are likely to turn for support and assistance to those states possessing the most vigorous domestic nuclear power programs that are placing new power plant orders, extending international fuel cycle services, and maintaining leadership roles in supporting innovative improvements in advanced technologies. This suggests that the influence of the United States internationally could be enhanced significantly if the U.S. is able to achieve success in its Nuclear Power 2010 program and place several new orders in the next decade and beyond. Conversely, if the 2010 initiative falters, or if U.S. companies only are given subordinate roles in processing new plant orders, then this can only further weaken the U.S. nuclear infrastructure as well as the stature of the U.S. in the international nuclear community. Experts believe that the U.S. nuclear infrastructure is capable of sustaining the goals of the 2010 program, but this will require the resolution of a number of formidable problems, including arrangements for the acquisition of long lead time components and coping with anticipated shortages of experienced personnel. Maintaining the U.S. as a Significant Global Supplier The health of the U.S. civil nuclear infrastructure will also be crucial to the success of U.S. efforts to play a significant role as a nuclear supplier and to advance its nonproliferation objectives. There is a clear and compelling upsurge of interest in nuclear power in various parts of the world that is independent of U.S. policy and prerogatives. As a consequence, if the U.S. aspires to participate in these programs and to shape them in ways that are most conducive to nonproliferation, it will need to promote the health and viability of the American nuclear infrastructure. Perhaps more importantly, if it wishes to exert a positive influence in shaping the nonproliferation policies of other countries, it can do so more effectively by being an active supplier to and partner in the evolution of those programs. Concurrent with the prospective growth in the use of nuclear power, the global nonproliferation regime is facing some direct assaults that are unprecedented in nature. International confidence in the effectiveness of nuclear export controls was shaken by the disclosures of the nuclear operations of A.Q. Khan. These developments underscore the importance of maintaining the greatest integrity and effectiveness of the nuclear export conditions applied by the major suppliers. They also underscore the importance of the U.S. maintaining effective policies to achieve these objectives. Constructive U.S. influence will be best achieved to the extent that the U.S. is perceived as a major technological leader, supplier and partner in the field of nuclear technology. As the sole superpower, the U.S. will have considerable, on-going influence on the international nonproliferation regime, regardless of how active and successful it is in the nuclear export market. However, if the U.S. nuclear infrastructure continues to erode, it will weaken the ability of the U.S. to participate actively in the international nuclear market. If the U.S. becomes more dependent on foreign nuclear suppliers or if it leaves the international nuclear market to other suppliers, the ability of the U.S. to influence nonproliferation policy will diminish.

It is, therefore, essential that the United States have vibrant nuclear reactor, uranium enrichment, and spent fuel storage and disposal industries that can not only meet the needs of U.S. utilities but will also enable the United States to promote effective safeguards and other nonproliferation controls through close peaceful nuclear cooperation other countries. The U.S. should establish a high priority goal to rebuild an indigenous nuclear industry and support its growth in domestic and international markets. U.S. nuclear exports can be used to influence other states’ nuclear programs through the nonproliferation commitments that the U.S. requires. The U.S. has so-called consent rights over the enrichment, reprocessing and alteration in form or content of the nuclear materials that it has provided to other countries, as well as to the nuclear materials that are produced from the nuclear materials and equipment that the U.S. has supplied. The percentage of nuclear materials, including separated plutonium, that are subject to U.S. consent rights will diminish over time as new suppliers of nuclear materials and facilities take a larger share of the international nuclear market. Unless the U.S. is able to compete effectively in the international market as a supplier of nuclear fuels, equipment and technology, the quantity of the nuclear materials around the globe that the U.S. has control over will diminish significantly in the future. This may not immediately weaken the effectiveness of the nonproliferation regime since all the major suppliers have adopted the export guidelines of the Nuclear Supplier Group. However, only the U.S., Australia and Canada have consent rights over enrichment and reprocessing of the nuclear materials subject to their agreements. Consequently, if there is a major decline in the U.S. share of the international nuclear market, the U.S. may not be as effective as it has been in helping to ensure a rigorous system of export controls.

Prolif will be slow
Waltz, 2K (Professor of Political Science at UC Berkeley, Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, v1 n1, Winter/Spring, http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/gjia/gjia_winspr00f.html)
It is now estimated that about twenty–five countries are in a position to make nuclear weapons rather quickly. Most countries that could have acquired nuclear military capability have refrained from doing so. Most countries do not need them. Consider Argentina, Brazil, and South Africa. Argentina and Brazil were in the process of moving toward nuclear military capability, and both decided against it–wisely I believe–because neither country needs nuclear weapons. South Africa had about half a dozen warheads and decided to destroy them. You have to have an adversary against whom you think you might have to threaten retaliation, but most countries are not in this position. Germany does not face any security threats–certainly not any in which a nuclear force would be relevant. I would expect the pattern of the past to be the same as the pattern in the future, in which one or two states per decade gradually develop nuclear weapons.


==---T---== 
===2AC T-investment=== 

Transportation investment requires federal funding for a project- that’s a quote from
Warner, 11 – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, [[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)/RD|http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)]]
‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- The term ‘transportation investment’ means Federal funding for a project included in a transportation program.

This includes private sector development
Khasnabis and Mishra ‘9
[Professor of Civil Engineering and Graduate Student of Engineering – Wayne State. “Developing and Testing a Framework for Alternative Ownership, Tenure and Governance Strategies for Proposed Detroit-Windsor River Crossing. Feb 2009. http://www.utoledo.edu/research/ututc/docs/UTUTC-IU-1_Final_Report1.pdf//Cal-JV]
Transportation infrastructure investments typically undertaken by the public sector, has recently attracted private entities, thereby forming a joint participation commonly referred to as Public Private Partnership (PPP). Financing techniques are developed to provide various forms of ownership, tenure and governance (OTG) strategies. There are a number of reasons for the growing trend of private participation in public projects. These include, the scarcity of fiscal resources at the public sector level, the perception that the private sector is more efficient in managing (construct, operate, and maintain) large projects, and sharing risks and uncertainties with the private sector, thereby reducing exposure levels to financial losses for both entities. Most investment decisions share three important characteristics in varying degrees. First, the investment is partially or completely irreversible in that the funds invested are completely “sunk” in the project. Thus the agency or agencies responsible for managing the project, must be fully committed to the project once the investment is made. Second, there are uncertainties over the future outcome from the investment. One way to address this is to assess the probabilities of the alternative outcomes that can mean greater or smaller profit (or loss) for the investment. The third characteristic is related to timing of the investment. With proper planning, investment decisions can be postponed until credible information about future outcomes may be available. These three characteristics interact to determine the optimal decision of investors (Weston and Brigham 1976).

It’s means associated with- that’s a quote from
Oxford Dictionaries Online, No Date (“Its”, [[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/its?view=uk]])
its Entry from World dictionary Pronunciation:/ɪts/ possessive determiner belonging to or associated with a thing previously mentioned or easily identified: turn the camera on its side he chose the area for its atmosphere


===2AC T “In”=== 
We meet and counter interpretation- the resolution calls for our transportation infrastructure investment to be in the US- the plan mandates that- Transportation investment means federal funding
Warner, 11 – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, [[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)/RD|http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)//RD]]
‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- The term ‘transportation investment’ means Federal funding for a project included in a transportation program.

Predictability- grammar determines what we research and how we prepare for debates, sidestepping it internal link turns all their offense
Fish 02 - Dean of College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the University of Illinois at Chicago (Stanley, "Say it Ain't so" THE CHRONICLE, June 21, 2002, http://chronicle.com/article/Say-It-Ain-t-So/46137)
Well, actually everyone knows what's going on. The art of speaking and writing precisely and with attention to grammatical form is more and more a lost one. Just listen to National Public Radio for 15 minutes or read a section of The New York Times and you will be able to start your own collection of howlers, from the (now ubiquitous) confusion of "disinterested" and "uninterested" (which sometimes takes the form of a parallel confusion of "disinvite" and "uninvite," the latter not an English verb form); to the disastrous and often comical substitution of "enervate" for "energize"; to the attribution of reticence to persons who are merely reluctant; to participles with no subjects or too many; to errors of pomposity ("between you and I," dubbed by a former colleague the "Cornell nominative"); to pronouns without referents or as many referents as there are nouns in the previous five sentences; to singular subjects with plural verbs (and the reverse); to dependent clauses attached to nothing; to mismatched tenses attached to the same action; to logical redundancies like, "The reason is because ..." ( I'm afraid I've been guilty of that one myself); not to mention inelegant repetitions and errors of diction made by persons who seem to be writing a language they first encountered yesterday. What has brought us to this sorry pass? Basically, two things. First the belief, devoutly held and endlessly rehearsed, that the purpose of writing is self-expression. The convenience of this belief, for those who profess it, is that they need never accept correction; for if it is their precious little selves they are expressing, the language of expression is answerable only to the internal judgment of those same selves, and any challenge from the outside can be met simply by saying, (as students often do) "I know what I mean," or, more precisely, "I know what I mean." Students who say and believe this will never confront an important truth: Language has its own structure (not unchanging, to be sure, but fixed enough at any one moment to serve as both a constraint and a resource). If you do not submit yourself to the conventional meanings of words and to the grammatical forms that specify the relationships between the objects words refer to, the prose you produce will say something -- language, not you or I, means -- but it will not say what you wanted to say. That's only because your readers will not be inside your head where they might ask the self-seeking expression what it had in mind, but will instead be on the outside processing the formal patterns of your written language and reaching the conclusions dictated and generated by those patterns. In fact, however, what I've just said is a bit misleading because it suggests that fully formed thoughts exist in some inner mental space and manage to make it into the outside world when they are clothed in the proper syntactical and lexical forms. But as everyone used to know before the cult of self-expression triumphed, the ability even to have certain kinds of thoughts depends on the prior ability to produce (and comprehend) certain kinds of sentences. People don't think naturally in the future perfect or in parallel constructions or in the subjunctive mood; rather these grammatical alternatives are learned, and learned with them are the ways of thinking they make possible -- relating to one another on a time-line events or states of being that have not yet happened; lining up persons, objects, and actions in relationships of similarity and opposition; reasoning from contrary-to-fact assertions to assertions about what was or could be done in the past, present, or future. These are complex mental actions, and students will be able to perform them only if their minds are stocked with the right grammatical furniture, with forms that have no specific content but make possible the organization of any content into temporal/spatial arrangements that suggest and make available modes of action in the world. The organization of the world in ways that expand the possibilities of thought and action -- that, not self-expression, is the purpose of writing, and it is preeminently a social purpose.

==---DA’s---== 
===2AC Politics=== 


Investing in Afghanistan infrastructure is popular with republicans- even if it’s not popular to do it in the US
Brinkley 12/18 (Joel Brinkley, a professor of journalism at Stanford University, is a Pulitzer Prize-winning former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, 2012, “Joel Brinkley: Republicans would rather upgrade Afghanistan's infrastructure than our own”, http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-12-18/news/sns-201212181230--tms--amvoicesctnav-c20121218-20121218_1_special-report-infrastructure-work-republicans)
If you want to see where rank hypocrisy sits in full flower, you have only to observe Republicans at their desks in the House and Senate. There, they are openly ridiculing President Obama's proposed $50 billion stimulus bill for desperately needed infrastructure work. When Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell heard of the president's plan, he derisively laughed out loud, as if he'd been handed a piece of road kill. At about the same time, Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican who is incoming chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, baldly declared: There will be no stimulus in any fiscal-cliff budget deal. Why is all of that hypocritical? Most Republicans consider the whole idea of spending federal money to repair the nation's crumbling roads, bridges and the rest -- while creating thousands of jobs in the process -- nothing short of sacrilege. And yet they're perfectly happy to spend billions of dollars to build roads, bridges and schools in foreign countries, particularly Afghanistan, where authorizing money on infrastructure improvements is like throwing cash into the fire. In his most recent quarterly report, the U.S. special inspector general for Afghan reconstruction said that, when security for aid workers is included, Congress has appropriated "approximately $100 billion" in development aid since 2002, nearly all of it deficit spending -- more than the U.S. has ever spent to rebuild any other country. Republicans approved every one of those appropriations without any notable arguments. And the most hypocritical part is that they're approving many millions of dollars in additional infrastructure aid right now -- even while they throw up passionate ideological objections to dedicating any money, even a penny, to similar projects for their constituents at home. They keep sending the money, even though they know perfectly well that Afghanistan is one of the world's most corrupt nations. Just a few days ago, the special investigator general (widely known as SIGAR) released a special report on the suitcases full of cash that Afghan government officials carry away on planes from Kabul's airport every day. That's a longstanding problem, and much of the money, certainly, is purloined American aid. Last year, SIGAR installed "bulk currency counters at the airport to monitor the outflow of funds," the report said. Revisiting last month, the agency found that the machines "did not appear to be in use," and government officials carrying stuffed suitcases were walking right past them. This fiscal year, the United States Agency for International Development, using Republican-approved funds, is spending $20 million on new school buildings, even though the Congressional Research Service reported this fall that "setbacks have occurred because of Taliban attacks on schools." More than 100 were blown up just last year, the United Nations reported. And for those still standing, few have electricity or running water. Teachers are barely educated, often unpaid, and the text books are decades out of date. Think what $20 million could have accomplished if dedicated to American schools. There could be no better example of this ludicrous infrastructure spending than the USAID's absurdly named project: IDEA-NEW. The $150 million endeavor, still ongoing, is intended to create new economic opportunities for the nations' opium-poppy farmers -- to dissuade them from this illicit trade. Afghanistan has long been the world's largest supplier of opium. Well, as soon as the first tranche of money arrived in Afghanistan, the program administrators decided they just didn't like this new idea. So they began spending millions on infrastructure improvements -- without any regard to the drug trade. Even at that they did a poor job. For example, the agency hired workers to build or repair 377 kilometers of irrigation. They managed only 40 kilometers. During the course of this program so far, the U.N. said, Afghanistan's opium crop actually surged by 61 percent. That's another $150 million -- wasted. The congressional-research report said Congress is continuing to approve money to build roads, bridges, schools and railways, improve health care and increase electricity availability in Afghanistan -- all faltering efforts.

Appeasing republicans key to the agenda
Zelizer 9 (Julian, Prof Public Affairs @ Princeton, CNN, 1/13)
Obama will have to define himself in relation to his predecessor, but in this case by demonstrating clearly to the public what he will do differently, rather than the same, as President Bush. And, finally, the new president will need to find legislation that attracts some support from the opposition to diminish the power of polarization on Capitol Hill and establish the groundwork for future compromise.


Encouraging private sector development is also popular
Utt 12- PhD in economics from the Unviersity of Indiana (Ronald, "Can Public-Private Partnerships Fill the Transportation Funding Gap." Heritage Foundation. January 12, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/01/can-public-private-partnerships-fill-the-transportation-funding-gap]])//TD
To date, all of these projects have been developed and initiated by states, private investors, or a combination of the two, often with federal support, such as TIFIA grants and permission to build on the interstate right-of-way. With federal transportation funding limited by macroeconomic budget concerns, many in Congress are looking to be more proactive. Both the House and Senate reauthorization draft proposals welcome and encourage greater private-sector involvement in transportation investment.

PDD shields the link
Cooper 2 [Phillip, Professor of Public Administration @ Portland State University, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action”, p. 144-5]

The NSDs clearly have much of the same effects as executive orders, but they are not defined as such and therefore are not covered by the Federal Register Act. The vast majority of these directives are classified, though there has often been a debate about whether the use of the secret stamp has been excessive and intended primarily to conceal policy for political reasons or to protect the flanks of those involved in what they know to be troublesome decisionmaking. Although most NSDs are clearly aimed at foreign policy and military affairs, some of the limited studies that have been done to date indicate that others have significant domestic impact. Most administrations to date have refused to notify Congress of the existence of NSDs, to provide copies if they are specifically requested by Congress, or to send witnesses to testify at hearings on the subject. When Colin Powell was national security adviser, he refused even to testify about NSDs during a congressional investigation. The Clinton administration used its PDDs flexibly, with some published and others classified.

Winners win
Marshall and Prins 11 (BRYAN W, Miami University and BRANDON C, University of Tennessee & Howard H. Baker, Jr. Center for Public Policy, “Power or Posturing? Policy Availability and Congressional Influence on U.S. Presidential Decisions to Use Force”, Sept, Presidential Studies Quarterly 41, no. 3)
Presidents rely heavily on Congress in converting their political capital into real policy success. Policy success not only shapes the reelection prospects of presidents, but it also builds the president’s reputation for political effectiveness and fuels the prospect for subsequent gains in political capital (Light 1982). Moreover, the president’s legislative success in foreign policy is correlated with success on the domestic front. On this point, some have largely disavowed the two-presidencies distinction while others have even argued that foreign policy has become a mere extension of domestic policy (Fleisher et al. 2000; Oldfield and Wildavsky 1989) Presidents implicitly understand that there exists a linkage between their actions in one policy area and their ability to affect another. The use of force is no exception; in promoting and protecting U.S. interests abroad, presidential decisions are made with an eye toward managing political capital at home (Fordham 2002).



Capital is irrelevant.
Dickinson, ‘9
[Matthew, professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt, “Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics,” 5-26, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/]
As for Sotomayor, from here the path toward almost certain confirmation goes as follows: the Senate Judiciary Committee is slated to hold hearings sometime this summer (this involves both written depositions and of course open hearings), which should lead to formal Senate approval before Congress adjourns for its summer recess in early August. So Sotomayor will likely take her seat in time for the start of the new Court session on October 5. (I talk briefly about the likely politics of the nomination process below). What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals about the basis of presidential power. Political scientists, like baseball writers evaluating hitters, have devised numerous means of measuring a president’s influence in Congress. I will devote a separate post to discussing these, but in brief, they often center on the creation of legislative “box scores” designed to measure how many times a president’s preferred piece of legislation, or nominee to the executive branch or the courts, is approved by Congress. That is, how many pieces of legislation that the president supports actually pass Congress? How often do members of Congress vote with the president’s preferences? How often is a president’s policy position supported by roll call outcomes? These measures, however, are a misleading gauge of presidential power – they are a better indicator of congressional power. This is because how members of Congress vote on a nominee or legislative item is rarely influenced by anything a president does. Although journalists (and political scientists) often focus on the legislative “endgame” to gauge presidential influence – will the President swing enough votes to get his preferred legislation enacted? – this mistakes an outcome with actual evidence of presidential influence. Once we control for other factors – a member of Congress’ ideological and partisan leanings, the political leanings of her constituency, whether she’s up for reelection or not – we can usually predict how she will vote without needing to know much of anything about what the president wants. (I am ignoring the importance of a president’s veto power for the moment.) Despite the much publicized and celebrated instances of presidential arm-twisting during the legislative endgame, then, most legislative outcomes don’t depend on presidential lobbying. But this is not to say that presidents lack influence. Instead, the primary means by which presidents influence what Congress does is through their ability to determine the alternatives from which Congress must choose. That is, presidential power is largely an exercise in agenda-setting – not arm-twisting. And we see this in the Sotomayer nomination. Barring a major scandal, she will almost certainly be confirmed to the Supreme Court whether Obama spends the confirmation hearings calling every Senator or instead spends the next few weeks ignoring the Senate debate in order to play Halo III on his Xbox. That is, how senators decide to vote on Sotomayor will have almost nothing to do with Obama’s lobbying from here on in (or lack thereof). His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee.



Increasing the size of the agenda makes items more likely to pass
Cohn 9 (Jonathon Cohn, 3/11/09 [The New Republic, “The Case for Presidential Multi-Tasking”, http://blogs.tnr.com/tnr/blogs/the_treatment/archive/2009/03/11/the-case-for-presidential-multi-tasking.aspx])

My friend William Galston is not the only writer/pundit urging President Obama to focus on the financial crisis, while postponing action on other fronts. But he's certainly among the smartest and most persuasive. The usual case for Obama's aggressive agenda--seeking action on not just the economy but education, energy, and health care as well--is that FDR did it that way in 1933. But, as Galston notes, present conditions aren't as bad as they were in 1933. And even FDR paced himself, using consecutive, clean legislative victories to build political momentum as he went. New Deal history isn't my specialty, but that reading sounds about right to me. So let's dispense with the FDR analogies, at least for the moment. I'm still not convinced that Obama should drop everything and focus on the banks. For one thing, I'm not so sure that Obama's focusing on the banks makes a solution to the banking crisis more likely. Assuming Obama really is flubbing the banking crisis--and I'll defer to Noam on that, rather than redner a judgment myself--is the problem here Obama's failure to rally public opinion around the right solution? Or is it a failure to identify the right solution in the first place? There's a better case to be made, I think, that the problem is lack of bureaucratic attention. Staff at the Treasury Department should be focusing on this like a laser beam--and not, say, on calculating revenues from cap-and-trade or changes in the tax deduction for employer-sponsored health insurance. But it's not clear to me that the staff is spending significant amounts of time on those issues. The bigger problem, I gather, is that there just isn't enough staff there right now--and that the leadership, i.e., Secretary Timothy Geithner, may not be handling the crisis well. (Again, I'm making no independent judgmet on that question.) Meanwhile, Obama's multi-faceted strategy has certain clear advantages. For one thing, it keeps the right wing unsettled. With so many initiatives going forward, there's no chance for conservatives to coalesce in opposition to any one issue. Instead of the entire conservative movement hammering away in unison, you have some of them going after health care, some of them going after earmarks, some of them going after cap-and-trade, and so on. In that sort of environment, few attacks resonate because they don't get the sustained attention they need. The converse is true, of course; Obama isn't giving the affirmative case sustained attention, either. But if neither side can rally its forces, then the most likely result would seem to be status quo politics. And status quo politics right now, I would aruge, favors the party that just won a landslide presidential election while building up huge congressional majorities.


Gun control, energy, and debt thump
Weber 1/1 – 13 Fox News Analyst Joseph Weber, Guns, immigration, fiscal issues emerge as top priorities for Obama, new Congress, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2013/01/01/gun-control-immigration-reform-fiscal-issues-emerge-as-top-issues-for-new/
Danielle Doane, director of government studies at the conservative Heritage Foundation think tank, said the question about what will be on the new Congress' agenda is really two basic questions: “What will be their priorities and what will they be forced to deal with?" Gun control could answer both of those questions. Obama and leaders of the Democrat-controlled Senate have made clear their intentions to promptly introduce legislation restricting firearms, in the aftermath of the Dec. 14 shooting at a Connecticut elementary school in which six adults and 20 first-graders were killed. California Sen. Dianne Feinstein and other Democrats want to re-institute an assault-weapons ban – a plan Obama on Sunday again publicly supported. And related legislation could include proposed bans on high-capacity ammunition clips and tighter background checks for gun buyers. Lawmakers have suggested over the past weeks that debates on gun control could start as early as this month and delay those on immigration reform until spring – given the political climate and the Senate Judiciary Committee having oversight on both issues. However, Democrats can expect strong opposition from Republicans and the National Rifle Association, the country’s most influential gun lobby. And large-scale Second Amendment changes are not expected, even if Democrats pass legislation. The president on Sunday said energy issues are also on his high-priority list, specifically how the country can produce more energy in environmentally conscious ways, and mentioned 15 times in an interview with NBC News the need for further deficit reduction. Congressional leaders appeared reluctant over the lame duck session to say what will be their top priorities. A spokesman for House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, whose office plays a major role in setting the agenda, said lawmakers were focused on solving the fiscal crisis. Senate leadership did not return calls, nor did the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank influential in setting Democratic legislative policy. However, Doane thinks the Republican-controlled House will again focus on budget-related issues. "We'll likely see debt and deficit issues weaving throughout next year," she said.


===2AC AT: Heg Impact=== 
Rare earths are critical to all military systems—the aff saves hegemony
Richardson 10 (Michael, 10/18, visiting senior research fellow at the Institute of South East Asian Studies in Singapore, Yale Global Online, “China’s Chokehold On Rare-Earth Minerals Raises Concerns ,” [[http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/chinas-rare-earth-minerals]], da 11/16)
Yet China could keep its dominant grip on the rare-earths industry for some years. It holds 35 percent of global reserves, but supplies over 95 percent of demand for rare-earth oxides, of which 60 percent is domestic, according to Industrial Minerals Company of Australia, a consultancy. Just as important, Chinese companies, many of them state-controlled, have advanced in their quest to make China the world leader in processing rare-earth metals into finished materials. Success in this quest could give China a decisive advantage not just in civilian industry, including clean energy, but also in military production if Chinese manufacturers were given preferential treatment over foreign competitors. Cerium is the most abundant of the 17 rare earths, all of which have similar chemical properties. A cerium-based coating is non-corrosive and has significant military applications. The Pentagon is due to finish a report soon on the risks of US military dependence on rare earths from China. Their use is widespread in the defense systems of the US, its allies, and other countries that buy its weapons and equipment. In a report to the US Congress in April, the Government Accountability Office said that it had been told by officials and defense industry executives that where rare-earth alloys and other materials were used in military systems, they were “responsible for the functionality of the component and would be difficult to replace without losing performance.” For example, fin actuators in precision-guided bombs are specifically designed around the capabilities of neodymium iron boron rare-earth magnets. The main US battle tank, the M1A2 Abrams, has a reference and navigation system that relies on samarium cobalt magnets from China. An official report last year on the US national defense stockpile said that shortages of four rare earths – lanthanum, cerium, europium and gadolinium – had already caused delays in producing some weapons. It recommended further study to determine the severity of the delays.

U.S. primacy isn’t key to peace—their data is flawed
Preble, 10 – Director of Foreign Policy Studies at CATO (Christopher, 8/3/10, “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?”, [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/]],)
Most in Washington still embraces the notion that America is, and forever will be, the world’s indispensable nation. Some scholars, however, questioned the logic of hegemonic stability theory from the very beginning. A number continue to do so today. They advance arguments diametrically at odds with the primacist consensus. Trade routes need not be policed by a single dominant power; the international economy is complex and resilient. Supply disruptions are likely to be temporary, and the costs of mitigating their effects should be borne by those who stand to lose — or gain — the most. Islamic extremists are scary, but hardly comparable to the threat posed by a globe-straddling Soviet Union armed with thousands of nuclear weapons. It is frankly absurd that we spend more today to fight Osama bin Laden and his tiny band of murderous thugs than we spent to face down Joseph Stalin and Chairman Mao. Many factors have contributed to the dramatic decline in the number of wars between nation-states; it is unrealistic to expect that a new spasm of global conflict would erupt if the United States were to modestly refocus its efforts, draw down its military power, and call on other countries to play a larger role in their own defense, and in the security of their respective regions. But while there are credible alternatives to the United States serving in its current dual role as world policeman / armed social worker, the foreign policy establishment in Washington has no interest in exploring them. The people here have grown accustomed to living at the center of the earth, and indeed, of the universe. The tangible benefits of all this military spending flow disproportionately to this tiny corner of the United States while the schlubs in fly-over country pick up the tab.

2. Diplomacy has limited utility – can’t be effectively practiced by the government
Wolf and Rosen, 04 (Charles Jr. Wolf - Senior Economic Adviser and Corporate Fellow in International Economics at RAND, and Brian Rosen - Doctoral Fellow at the RAND Corporation, “Public Diplomacy: How to Think about and improve it,” www.rand.org/pubs/occasional_papers/2004/RAND_OP134.pdf)
Still, a reformed and enhanced public diplomacy should be accompanied by limited expectations about what it can realistically accomplish. U.S. policies—notably in the Israel-Palestine dispute as well as in Iraq—inevitably and inherently will arouse in the Middle East and Muslim worlds opposition and deafness to the public diplomacy message that the United States wishes to transmit. While these policies have their own rationale and logic, the reality is that they do and will limit what public diplomacy can or should be expected to accomplish. The antipathy for the United States that some U.S. policies arouse is yet another argument that supports outsourcing some aspects of public diplomacy. The message America is trying to sell about pluralism, freedom, and democracy need not be delivered by the U.S. government. The message itself may be popular among potential constituents who view the United States unfavorably, but if the government delivers the message, the message may go unheard. Nevertheless, even if outsourcing proves more effective, expectations should be limited. While outsourcing may put some distance between a potentially favorable message (pluralism, freedom, and democracy) and an unfavorable messenger (the United States government), inevitably the two will be linked.


Alt. causes to soft power decline
Talbott, 06 (Strobe Talbott, President of the Brookings Institution. Keynote Address to Stanley Foundation Conference, "Bush Foreign Policy: The Next Phase," 12-7-06. [[@https://email.claremontmckenna.edu/exchweb/bin/redir.asp?URL=http://www.brook.edu/views/speeches/talbott/20061207.htm|http://www.brook.edu/views/speeches/talbott/20061207.htm]])
To its credit, starting in 2004, even before President Bush's re-election, he took some positive steps that were reassuring both at home and abroad. Early after his second Inaugural, he sent Secretary Rice to Europe and then made a trip of his own to Brussels and Berlin. Instead of following up, as many feared he would do, on the implications of his "Axis of Evil" rhetoric—that is, having the military juggernaut roll right on from Baghdad to Tehran and Pyongyang and change the regimes there—he outsourced diplomacy on Iran to the European Union and on North Korea to China. The reason President Bush changed approach was, quite simply, that Iraq was going badly, Afghanistan seemed stuck, and support for his foreign policy was eroding at home. The administration also belatedly recognized how much help it need from rest of world. That was the backdrop for a trend toward restoration of more moderate, multilateralist foreign policy in the second term. But there has been a sense of tentativeness, of tactical fine-tuning rather than strategic readjustment, a sense of course-correction rather than course-reversal. We saw evidence of that in recent days in the reluctance with which President Bush gave up on his determination to keep, as his ambassador to the UN, John Bolton, who has been the personification of in-your-face unilateralism. Let me give you my own view on what it would take— not to "solve," perhaps, but to manage—the foreign policy problem from hell. Let me also be clear: this is not a prediction of what the administration will do; rather, it's a prescription for what I believe it should do. What's needed now is nothing less than a broad-gauge overhaul of American foreign policy commensurate with, necessary to, supportive of a change in policy on Iraq itself. It should start with recognition—and this is not a matter of semantics; it's a matter of political realism— that we're enmeshed in a civil war in Iraq and civil wars, by definition, require political solutions. The greater reliance on diplomacy that everyone seems to agree is necessary must include negotiation with regimes we don't like for good reasons, especially Syria and Iran , because we need them to rein in the militias. It must also include repairing relations with allies and friends. We must strengthen international institutions we have weakened, starting with the UN . Now that Mr. Bolton is out, the President should appoint someone who would personify respect for what is good and admirable and supportive of U.S. interests in the UN's legacy, its potential, and its utility—I'd even say its indispensability to us in the years ahead. It should also not be someone closely identified with Iraq policy to date. The administration should conduct the earliest possible meetings at the highest possible level with new Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, and help him establish the best possible relationship with the Congress. These are steps of immediate relevance to the challenge we face in Iraq and the Middle East. No less important is a range of other steps we should take to restore American leadership of the international system. We should do so in arms control and nonproliferation by strengthening treaty regimes which, like UN, we have weakened . I would stress the importance of the Strategic Arms Reduction process, the Nonproliferation Treaty, and the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. That would be: reducing our strategic arsenal as soon as possible to the limits set by the so called Moscow Treaty and returning to negotiations with Russia on significantly lower levels of nuclear weapons and the elimination of tactical nuclear weapons. As for the NPT, we should work to get India, Pakistan, and the five Treaty-approved nuclear-weapon states to join in a moratorium on the production of fissile material pending verifiable Fissile Material Cutoff Treaty. Let me give extra attention to the CTBT. The refusal of the Republican-controlled Senate to ratify the CTBT in October 1999 was a dark day in the history of this country. That was seven years ago. Much has been written lamenting the irony and the folly of what happened then. But nothing is more eloquent or astute than what Johnny Apple—whose memorial service took place two days ago—wrote for the front page of the New York Times at the time: "The Senate's decisive rejection tonight of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty was the most explicit American repudiation of a major international agreement in 80 years, and it further weakened the already shaky standing of the United States as a global moral leader. Not since the Versailles Treaty was voted down in November 1919, an action that was repeated in March 1920, has so far-reaching an accord been turned down." The Bush administration made clear, soon after coming into office, that it would let the CTBT languish. I realize the administration is, to put it mildly, unlikely now to embrace the treaty. But at least it should back off hints of that the U.S. may break out of the CTBT—that is, begin testing again—in order to develop a new generation of nuclear weapons. And the new Congress, along with the NGO sector, should do everything possible to lay ground work for ratification of the CTBT early in next administration. That is a goal that I believe would have bipartisan support, since there are plenty of Republicans who recognize the importance of the treaty and the self-destructiveness of what the Senate did seven years ago. There should also be an unambiguous American endorsement of international law— not later, but now. With regard to the International Criminal Court, the best thing would be to return to the U.S. position of September 2000. That would mean re-signing the Rome treaty that Clinton signed and Bush "unsigned"—a gratuitous insult to many of our friends around the world whose help we are going to need. Again, that's unlikely to happen. But there should be no doubt about the damage we do ourselves by remaining outside the ICC. At a minimum, we should abandon efforts to negotiate immunity for U.S. forces, especially since we have, in those negotiations, little "leverage"—to return to that word in the conference topic—for getting our way in that regard, as in so many others. Another salutary step would be to engage actively and constructively with the new Human Rights Council at the UN . We're in the position now of not even having a delegate on the council. The country of Eleanor Roosevelt is on the sidelines of the effort to breathe new life into the Human Rights Commission that she was so instrumental in establishing. This is not just a shame—it's an absurdity. Speaking of international law and human rights—and coming back to Iraq—there's the question of treatment of prisoners. We should make a commitment to adhere to the Geneva Conventions and move affirmatively to restore habeas corpus rights to terrorist detainees. And since we're so focused on exit strategy for Iraq, let's have one for Guantanamo as well: either make it Geneva-compliant or close it down in way that ensures its inmates aren't sent to places, like Syria, where the conditions will be even worse. I'm now going to put one more issue on the table: climate change. That may seem extraneous to dealing with terrorism and Iraq and the meltdown of U.S. policy in the Greater Middle East. I include it on the list for two reasons: first, because a new policy on global warming is important in its own right; second, it's important as evidence of a new foreign policy in general. The Bush administration's obstructionism and obscurantism on global warming has become symbolic of what much of rest of world resents and resists about the substance and style of leadership. We can't launch an effective "diplomatic offensive" in the Middle East if a key aspect of our global diplomacy is offensive to much of the world—and, by the way, to many of our own citizens. We all understand that the administration doesn't like Kyoto. But you can't beat something with nothing, and at the national level, our policy on this issue is almost wholly negative. There should be an active search for successor to the Kyoto Protocol—maybe the Mumbai Protocol, or the Shanghai Protocol. It would be a step in a negotiated international agreement with binding limits for the administration to support, here at home, legislation to limit heat-trapping gases. It could do so by taking a page from what Governor Schwarzenegger is doing in California and what Senator McCain and Lieberman were able to get majority support for in the Senate with the GOP in control.


Even if the US declines, liberal international norms will survive – solves the impact
Ikenberry 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show)
For all these reasons, many observers have concluded that world politics is experiencing not just a changing of the guard but also a transition in the ideas and principles that underlie the global order. The journalist Gideon Rachman, for example, says that a cluster of liberal internationalist ideas -- such as faith in democratization, confidence in free markets, and the acceptability of U.S. military power -- are all being called into question. According to this worldview, the future of international order will be shaped above all by China, which will use its growing power and wealth to push world politics in an illiberal direction. Pointing out that China and other non-Western states have weathered the recent financial crisis better than their Western counterparts, pessimists argue that an authoritarian capitalist alternative to Western neoliberal ideas has already emerged. According to the scholar Stefan Halper, emerging-market states "are learning to combine market economics with traditional autocratic or semiautocratic politics in a process that signals an intellectual rejection of the Western economic model." Today's international order is not really American or Western--even if it initially appeared that way. But this panicked narrative misses a deeper reality: although the United States' position in the global system is changing, the liberal international order is alive and well. The struggle over international order today is not about fundamental principles. China and other emerging great powers do not want to contest the basic rules and principles of the liberal international order; they wish to gain more authority and leadership within it. Indeed, today's power transition represents not the defeat of the liberal order but its ultimate ascendance. Brazil, China, and India have all become more prosperous and capable by operating inside the existing international order -- benefiting from its rules, practices, and institutions, including the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the newly organized G-20. Their economic success and growing influence are tied to the liberal internationalist organization of world politics, and they have deep interests in preserving that system. In the meantime, alternatives to an open and rule-based order have yet to crystallize. Even though the last decade has brought remarkable upheavals in the global system -- the emergence of new powers, bitter disputes among Western allies over the United States' unipolar ambitions, and a global financial crisis and recession -- the liberal international order has no competitors. On the contrary, the rise of non-Western powers and the growth of economic and security interdependence are creating new constituencies for it. To be sure, as wealth and power become less concentrated in the United States' hands, the country will be less able to shape world politics. But the underlying foundations of the liberal international order will survive and thrive. Indeed, now may be the best time for the United States and its democratic partners to update the liberal order for a new era, ensuring that it continues to provide the benefits of security and prosperity that it has provided since the middle of the twentieth century.
Heg is inevitable: structural foundations buffer heg decline
Norrlof 10 - an Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Toronto (Carla, “ America’s Global Advantage US Hegemony and International Cooperation” p. 1-2)
The United States has been the most powerful country in the world for more than sixty years. Throughout this period, it has had the world’s largest economy and the world’s most important currency. For most of this time, it had the world’s most powerful military as well – and its military supremacy today is beyond question. We are truly in an era of US hegemony, a unipolar moment, a Pax Americana, which has enabled Americans to enjoy the highest standard of living in human history. Is this privileged position being undercut by serial trade deficits? The pessimists are growing more numerous by the day. They see the country’s spendthrift ways as a disaster waiting to happen. They warn that the cavernous gap in merchandise trade, well above 6 percent in 2006, is an ominous sign of competitive slippage. In 2008, the liabilities acquired to finance the shortfall in exports reached an amazing 29 percent of GDP. A falling dollar, military overstretch, the rise of the euro, the rise of China, and progressively deeper integration in East Asia are among the factors that many believe herald the imminent decline of American hegemony. In my view, the doomsayers are mistaken. I argue that American hegemony is stable and sustainable. While the United States certainly does face a number of challenges, an analysis of the linkages between trade, money, and security shows that American power is robust. This book is a story about why and how American hegemony works, and what other states would have to do to emulate or, on other grounds, thwart, America’s power base. As I will show, the United States benefits from running persistent trade deficits as a result of its special position in the international system. I will argue that any comparably situated country would choose to pursue the same cyclical deficit policy as the one encouraged by the US government. A series of size advantages cut across trade, money, and security: the size of the American market, the role of the dollar, and American military power interact to make a trade deficit policy rewarding and buffer the United States from the extreme consequences that a sustained deficit policy would otherwise have.

Heg collapse doesn’t cause war
Richard Haas (president of the Council on Foreign Relations, former director of policy planning for the Department of State, former vice president and director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, the Sol M. Linowitz visiting professor of international studies at Hamilton College, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a lecturer in public policy at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, and a research associate at the International Institute for Strategic Studies) April 2008 “Ask the Expert: What Comes After Unipolarity?” [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/16063/ask_the_expert.html]]
Does a non polar world increase or reduce the chances of another world war? Will nuclear deterrence continue to prevent a large scale conflict? Sivananda Rajaram, UK Richard Haass: I believe the chance of a world war, i.e., one involving the major powers of the day, is remote and likely to stay that way. This reflects more than anything else the absence of disputes or goals that could lead to such a conflict. Nuclear deterrence might be a contributing factor in the sense that no conceivable dispute among the major powers would justify any use of nuclear weapons, but again, I believe the fundamental reason great power relations are relatively good is that all hold a stake in sustaining an international order that supports trade and financial flows and avoids large-scale conflict. The danger in a nonpolar world is not global conflict as we feared during the Cold War but smaller but still highly costly conflicts involving terrorist groups, militias, rogue states, etc.



===2AC Coercion=== 
Ethic of consequences is the best middle ground- freedom and collective responsibility
Williams ‘5
(Michael, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales—Aberystwyth, The Realist Tradition and the Limits of International Relations, p. 174-176)
A commitment to an ethic of consequences reflects a deeper ethic of criticism, of ‘self-clarification’, and thus of reflection upon the values adopted by an individual or a collectivity. It is part of an attempt to make critical evaluation an intrinsic element of responsibility. Responsibility to this more fundamental ethic gives the ethic of consequences meaning. Consequentialism and responsibility are here drawn into what Schluchter, in terms that will be familiar to anyone conversant with constructivism in International Relations, has called a ‘reflexive principle’. In the wilful Realist vision, scepticism and consequentialism are linked in an attempt to construct not just a more substantial vision of political responsibility, but also the kinds of actors who might adopt it, and the kinds of social structures that might support it. A consequentialist ethic is not simply a choice adopted by actors: it is a means of trying to foster particular kinds of selfcritical individuals and societies, and in so doing to encourage a means by which one can justify and foster a politics of responsibility. The ethic of responsibility in wilful Realism thus involves a commitment to both autonomy and limitation, to freedom and restraint, to an acceptance of limits and the criticism of limits. Responsibility clearly involves prudence and an accounting for current structures and their historical evolution; but it is not limited to this, for it seeks ultimately the creation of responsible subjects within a philosophy of limits. Seen in this light, the Realist commitment to objectivity appears quite differently. Objectivity in terms of consequentialist analysis does not simply take the actor or action as given, it is a political practice — an attempt to foster a responsible self, undertaken by an analyst with a commitment to objectivity which is itself based in a desire to foster a politics of responsibility. Objectivity in the sense of coming to terms with the ‘reality’ of contextual conditions and likely outcomes of action is not only necessary for success, it is vital for selfreflection, for sustained engagement with the practical and ethical adequacy of one’s views. The blithe, self-serving, and uncritical stances of abstract moralism or rationalist objectivism avoid self-criticism by refusing to engage with the intractability of the world ‘as it is’. Reducing the world to an expression of their theoretical models, political platforms, or ideological programmes, they fail to engage with this reality, and thus avoid the process of self-reflection at the heart of responsibility. By contrast, Realist objectivity takes an engagement with this intractable ‘object’ that is not reducible to one’s wishes or will as a necessary condition of ethical engagement, self-reflection, and self-creation.7 Objectivity is not a naïve naturalism in the sense of scientific laws or rationalist calculation; it is a necessary engagement with a world that eludes one’s will. A recognition of the limits imposed by ‘reality’ is a condition for a recognition of one’s own limits — that the world is not simply an extension of one’s own will. But it is also a challenge to use that intractability as a source of possibility, as providing a set of openings within which a suitably chastened and yet paradoxically energised will to action can responsibly be pursued. In the wilful Realist tradition, the essential opacity of both the self and the world are taken as limiting principles. Limits upon understanding provide chastening parameters for claims about the world and actions within it. But they also provide challenging and creative openings within which diverse forms of life can be developed: the limited unity of the self and the political order is the precondition for freedom. The ultimate opacity of the world is not to be despaired of: it is a condition of possibility for the wilful, creative construction of selves and social orders which embrace the diverse human potentialities which this lack of essential or intrinsic order makes possible.8 But it is also to be aware of the less salutary possibilities this involves. Indeterminacy is not synonymous with absolute freedom — it is both a condition of, and imperative toward, responsibility.
Unchecked individual and economic freedom leads to genocide- excessive egoism
Aasland ‘9,
(Dag, Prof. of Economics @ U of Agder, Norway, Ethics and Economy: After Levinas, pgs. 64-65)
“Each thing in so far as it is in itself endeavours to persist in its own being”. This is one of the basic propositions of Spinoza’s Ethics (1997: 98). It applies to all unliving, such as a stone, and it applies to all living, such as a human. It can be applied also to physical and biological systems. The human body is composed of cells possessing as their most important aspect a ‘drive’ to continue to exist; they have through evolution developed the ability to maintain both themselves and the part of their environment on which they depend to keep living, that is, other cells, and their ‘host’, the body. Thus, the body does what ‘it’ can to continue to be. Spinoza’s proposition may also be applied to the human as a mental being (neurophysiologists will certainly see a connection here): I will continue to be me. This will to preserve oneself Spinoza called (in Latin) conatus essendi. Violence and murder are to Levinas (1985: 86) extreme cases of the conatus. The need for economic freedom and the economic knowledge supporting this need is also an implication of the conatus. But Spinoza’s idea of a large ‘we’ as an all-encompassing, harmonious deity is not found in the works of Levinas, and this became even clearer to Levinas after the Holocaust. According to Zygmunt Bauman (1989) the Holocaust was a natural consequence of modernity. The time was mature when it became technologically and organizationally possible. Levinas went deeper: the Holocaust was an expression of the human conatus. In his struggle for freedom, autonomy and happiness, man has to – as I have described earlier in this book – conceive his surroundings, including his fellow men. In my own ‘project of being’, consisting primarily in obtaining and exercising individual freedom and achieving a good life, I also involve others. This project is driven by a will to ‘totalise’ the world, within a conceivable knowledge. Economic freedom presumes a self-centred understanding of reality (Burggraeve, 2003: 57).

===2AC TAPI DA=== 
1. No impact to Russian economy
Blackwill, 09 – former associate dean of the Kennedy School of Government and Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategic Planning (Robert, RAND, “The Geopolitical Consequences of the World Economic Recession—A Caution”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/occasional_papers/2009/RAND_OP275.pdf, WEA)
Now on to Russia. Again, five years from today. Did the global recession and Russia’s present serious economic problems substantially modify Russian foreign policy? No. (President Obama is beginning his early July visit to Moscow as this paper goes to press; nothing fundamental will result from that visit). Did it produce a serious weakening of Vladimir Putin’s power and authority in Russia? No, as recent polls in Russia make clear. Did it reduce Russian worries and capacities to oppose NATO enlargement and defense measures eastward? No. Did it affect Russia’s willingness to accept much tougher sanctions against Iran? No. Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov has said there is no evidence that Iran intends to make a nuclear weapon.25 In sum, Russian foreign policy is today on a steady, consistent path that can be characterized as follows: to resurrect Russia’s standing as a great power; to reestablish Russian primary influence over the space of the former Soviet Union; to resist Western eff orts to encroach on the space of the former Soviet Union; to revive Russia’s military might and power projection; to extend the reach of Russian diplomacy in Europe, Asia, and beyond; and to oppose American global primacy. For Moscow, these foreign policy first principles are here to stay, as they have existed in Russia for centuries. 26 None of these enduring objectives of Russian foreign policy are likely to be changed in any serious way by the economic crisis.

2. Russian economy resilient
Stokes, 08 (Bruce Stokes. "Don't Ignore the Russian Bear." Council on Foreign Relations, [[@http://www.cfr.org/publication/3225/dont_ignore_the_russian_bear.html]])
A little less than a year ago, August 17 to be precise, the post-Cold War Russian economic experiment imploded. The ruble collapsed and debt payments to foreigners were frozen. Wall Street lost billions of dollars. Long Term Capital Management, one of the world's biggest hedge funds, had to be taken over by its bankers. Once burned, international investors yanked their capital out of all emerging markets— from Latin America to East Asia— causing world interest rates to spike. The global economy teetered on the edge of depression. But, much to the surprise of most economic pundits, international markets quickly righted themselves. The Russian economy proved far more resilient than anticipated. And, in retrospect, the events of August, 1998 were little more than a very large bump in the road. The lessons of this "crisis that wasn't" are now clear: Russia is not too big to fail (the volume of its debts do not dictate special treatment by its creditors); the financial world can cope with such failure; and the Russian economy can bounce back without much overt help from the West. But the impending $4.5 billion loan to Russia by the International Monetary Fund— reflecting Washington's gratitude for Moscow's help in Kosovo, continued fear of Russian nuclear proliferation and concern about Russia's internal political stability— demonstrates that Russia still remains too important for the world to ignore. This contradiction— not too big to fail, but still too big to flounder— highlights the friction inherent when economic policy is used to further geo-political goals. Up until a year ago, the Clinton Administration argued that aid to Russia was needed, in part, to avoid global economic collapse. August, 1998 exposed that rationale as a charade. Now American support for assistance to Russia can only be justified for two reasons: to reinforce Russia's transition to a market economy or as ransom in Moscow's continued strategic blackmail of the West. Evidence to justify the former is dubious. Its time to own up to the latter. Last summer's fleeting economic fright reflected Russia's staggering economic collapse. The ruble fell by more than 70 per cent in a couple of weeks. The economy shrank by 4.3 per cent. Real wages fell 41 per cent. But the crisis was cathartic. "The shock accomplished what reform was intended to achieve," said Anders Aslund, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. The banking system now functions better. Barter is declining. Most important, there has been no reversion to central planning, government-directed lending, industrial subsidies or government reliance on simply printing money.

Russian economy in decline – unemployment and investment prove
Rose & Ummelas 6/20/12 – contributing writer to Bloomberg and reporter/editor for Bloomberg (Scott & Ott, “ Russian Unemployment Plunges To Lowest In At Least 13 Years” Bloomberg, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-20/russian-unemployment-rate-plunges-to-lowest-in-at-least-13-years.html]])
Russia’s unemployment rate fell to the lowest level in at least 13 years last month and retail- sales growth unexpectedly accelerated, supporting the central bank’s decision to leave borrowing costs unchanged. The jobless rate dropped 0.4 percentage point to 5.4 percent, a level last seen four years ago and the lowest since at least 1999, the Moscow-based Federal Statistics Service said today in an e-mailed report. That’s less than the 5.7 percent median forecast of 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank left its refinancing rate at 8 percent for a sixth month June 15, saying borrowing costs are appropriate “in the coming months” for trends in the economy, which grew 4.9 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter. President Vladimir Putin needs a stronger labor market to sustain consumer spending and balance shrinking sales in Russia’s biggest trading partners, the European Union and China. “The current level of unemployment is already somewhat below the potential level for the economy and there are certain inflationary risks in this regard,” Vladimir Kolychev, head of research at Societe Generale SA’s OAO Rosbank in Moscow, said by phone. “There’s no reason for the central bank to become particularly dovish for now.”
The 30-stock Micex Index was 1.2 percent lower at 1,372.76 in Moscow, bringing its 2012 decline to 2.1 percent. The ruble, which has lost 1.2 percent against the dollar this year, was down 0.3 percent at 32.53. Retail sales grew 6.8 percent from a year earlier in May, the statistics service said. That’s quicker than April’s 6.4 percent advance, which was the slowest pace in nine months, and more than the 6.1 percent median estimate of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Consumers have been bolstered by slower inflation as prices grew at a record-low rate of 3.6 percent in May. Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev this month reiterated his forecast for inflation to stay below this year’s 6 percent target, even as delayed utility-tariff increases in July spur price growth. Real wages grew 11.1 percent and real disposable incomes rose 3.6 percent in May, compared with 9.6 percent and 2.7 percent median estimates in two Bloomberg polls. Fixed-capital investment advanced 7.7 percent compared with 7.8 percent in April, beating the 6.9 percent median forecast in a separate Bloomberg survey. The government reduced its projection for economic growth this year to 3.4 percent from 3.7 percent, saying investment will be weaker than initially estimated.


==---CP’s---== 
===2AC All Infrastructure CP=== 

US investment is key- Kazakhstan holds the most important linkage- the Aktau seaport- and only will accept investments from the US
Kucera 12 (Joshua Kucera, for the Pulitzer Center, Aktau, Kazakhstan, May 21 2012, “Kazakhstan: U.S. Interest in Global Hub on the Caspian”, http://pulitzercenter.org/reporting/kazakhstan-aktau-united-states-caspian-sea-caucasus-trade-afghanistan-silk-road-strategy)
The government has set up a “special economic zone” at Aktau's seaport, with low tax rates for businesses located there. It has made plans for a massive expansion of the city, a development called “Aktau City” that is supposed to extend for miles from the current northern edge of the city. It's improving rail links south to Turkmenistan and Iran and north to Russia, and expanding the capacity of the seaport and airport. Aktau is also the main base for the country's nascent navy, which recently took delivery of its first proper warship, a missile boat called the “Kazakhstan.” And for Kazakhstan's leaders, the U.S. is a key to jumpstarting Aktau's development. Faced with massive logistical headaches inherent in fighting a war in distant, landlocked Afghanistan, the Pentagon has set up a series of transport routes through Central Asia and is looking to expand them. In addition, as it looks for a way to stabilize Afghanistan after it starts pulling out in 2014, the U.S. State Department has pledged to set up a “New Silk Road” of transcontinental transit that will center around Afghanistan. Kazakhstan is positioning Aktau to take advantage of both those U.S. priorities, as a node on the military transport network and on the future New Silk Road. The U.S. already ships military cargo through Aktau, but Kazakhstan is proposing a substantial expansion of that transit, which will in turn help Aktau develop its port, said Birzhan Keneshev, deputy governor of the Mangystau region (which includes Aktau), in an interview. “This is a good opportunity for the U.S. military to send goods through our seaport and airport. We will get good experience in organizing multi-modal transportation businesses, which we have not had until now in Kazakhstan,” Keneshev said. “It's a good way to set up some joint ventures with the American side, with logistics companies, and get this experience.” Kazakhstan also has attempted to dovetail its plans for Aktau with the U.S.'s vision of the New Silk Road. American diplomats, promoting the New Silk Road, frequently quote Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India saying “I dream of a day, while retaining our respective identities, one can have breakfast in Amritsar, lunch in Lahore, and dinner in Kabul.” Kazakhstan's ambassador in Washington, Erlan Idrissov, has adapted that phrase on a transcontinental scale, imagining a day when one can have "breakfast in Amritsar, lunch in Aktau and dinner in Dusseldorf." Neither the U.S. or Kazakhstan governments are commenting publicly on their negotiations over this new cooperation. In a statement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said: “Kazakhstan is ready to contribute to implementing the [New Silk Road] initiative in the form of some new projects. One of them is the Transportation and Logistics Center (TLC) in Aktau Sea Port.” The U.S. has long seen potential in Aktau, even before the development of the Afghan transit routes. One 2009 diplomatic cable released by Wikileaks was titled “THE STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE OF AKTAU SEA PORT.” Another, from 2008, compared Aktau's role on the New Silk Road to that of Samarkand on the original Silk Road: “Aktau is still a sleepy town...Its growth potential, however, is significant...The Kazakhstanis see Aktau as a potential "capital city" of the Caspian region, the central point for transportation, regional educational cooperation, and even tourism. If the cross-Caspian route is the new Silk Road for Central Asia, Aktau may yet prove to be its Samarkhand.”

1. Trade does not solve war—there’s no correlation between trade and peace
Martin, Mayer and Thoenig, 08 (Phillipe, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, and Centre for Economic Policy Research; Thierry MAYER, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, CEPII, and Centre for Economic Policy Research, Mathias THOENIG, University of Geneva and Paris School of Economics, The Review of Economic Studies 75)
Does globalization pacify international relations? The “liberal” view in political science argues that increasing trade flows and the spread of free markets and democracy should limit the incentive to use military force in interstate relations. This vision, which can partly be traced back to Kant’s Essay on Perpetual Peace (1795), has been very influential: The main objective of the European trade integration process was to prevent the killing and destruction of the two World Wars from ever happening again.1 Figure 1 suggests2 however, that during the 1870–2001 period, the correlation between trade openness and military conflicts is not a clear cut one. The first era of globalization, at the end of the 19th century, was a period of rising trade openness and multiple military conflicts, culminating with World War I. Then, the interwar period was characterized by a simultaneous collapse of world trade and conflicts. After World War II, world trade increased rapidly, while the number of conflicts decreased (although the risk of a global conflict was obviously high). There is no clear evidence that the 1990s, during which trade flows increased dramatically, was a period of lower prevalence of military conflicts, even taking into account the increase in the number of sovereign states.


3. There’s also no impact to decline
The Seattle Times, 08 (2008, lexis)
Economists disagree on the Doha round's potential benefits; estimates of economic gain that could have been reaped through additional trade range from $4 billion to $100 billion. Set against the rapid expansion of global trade to $13.6 trillion last year from $7.6 trillion five years ago, however, the bottom-line loss from Doha's failure is "not a market issue," said Julian Callow, an economist at Barclays Capital in London. Nor is the world on the edge of the kind of protectionist wave that ended the last period of globalization in the early 20th century and contributed to two world wars, analysts say. Countries are likely to go on negotiating bilateral trade deals with each other, such as the U.S.-South Korea free-trade deal earlier this year.

===2AC Russia Do It CP=== 
(if not in 1AC) US key to provide coordination to ensure current projects reach their potential – only the plan can solve for long term security and stability in Afghanistan.
Starr and Kuchins 10 - PhD, research professor at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, and Kuchins PhD, director of the CSIS Russia and Eurasia Program, S. Frederick and Andrew et. al., Starr is the founder and Chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute, Ph.D. in history from Princeton, Kuchins currently teaches at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) and has also taught at Georgetown and Stanford Universities, Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins, May, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “T he Key To Success in Afghanistan: A Modern Silk Road Strategy”, ciao)
This brief review of transport initiatives across Eurasia reveals meaningful, yet largely uncoordinated efforts by a range of important players. One can point to new highways and rail lines and to some cross-border cooperation on trade, but these positive steps have yet to release the vast potential of long-distance trade that nearly all analyses lead one to expect. The reasons are not hard to find. First, Afghanistan still remains the ―cork in the bottle‖ that cur-tails or prevents trade along the major corridors leading to it. Secondary blockages exist elsewhere, notably to Afghanistan‘s East. To now, there has been no effective force pushing the relevant sponsors and parties to focus on the opening of even one or two major international corridors. Absent coordination, these projects too often fail to meet their potential. Summarizing the many initiatives to renew continent-wide transport and trade across the Eurasian heartland, it is fair to say that the overall effort has been enormous but that, for now, the whole remains less than the sum of the parts. The reason for this is that key blockages and impediments remain. Most of these are either within or around Afghanistan or along the borders of its neighboring states. Absent a focused effort to remove these barriers, the enormous leverage which completed corridors or routes could bring will re-main untapped. The U.S. cannot resolve these matters alone, but no country is better positioned to identify key blockages and organize the effort necessary to remove them. II. Argument for a Highly Visible and Transformative Transport-based Strategy If the U.S. and coalition forces are successful in bringing greater security to Afghanistan, these gains will be short-lived if the United States does not develop the kind of regional economic strategy described here. Meeting in Is-lamabad in 2009, twenty-four countries, including both Pakistan and Afgha-nistan, and eighteen international organizations, recognized ―that trans-regional development cooperation has the potential to alleviate poverty and improve the socio-economic conditions of the people of Afghanistan and the region.‖ As this declaration implied, a successful strategy must go beyond ―AfPak‖ and should make the longer-term economic viability of Afghanistan as high a priority as enhancing its near-term security. The bottom line is simple. According to the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief, ―International assistance constitutes around 90 percent of all public expenditures in Afghanistan.‖23 For the stabilization of Afghanistan to endure, the country must develop its licit economy. While much of the cur-rent debate has focused on how to protect the civilian population, professionalize the Afghan National Security Forces, and create a legitimate and effective Afghan government, these efforts will ultimately fail without a steady and sustainable revenue stream.

US investment is key- Kazakhstan holds the most important linkage- the Aktau seaport- and only will accept investments from the US- also proves they don’t solve ()
Kucera 12 (Joshua Kucera, for the Pulitzer Center, Aktau, Kazakhstan, May 21 2012, “Kazakhstan: U.S. Interest in Global Hub on the Caspian”, http://pulitzercenter.org/reporting/kazakhstan-aktau-united-states-caspian-sea-caucasus-trade-afghanistan-silk-road-strategy)
The government has set up a “special economic zone” at Aktau's seaport, with low tax rates for businesses located there. It has made plans for a massive expansion of the city, a development called “Aktau City” that is supposed to extend for miles from the current northern edge of the city. It's improving rail links south to Turkmenistan and Iran and north to Russia, and expanding the capacity of the seaport and airport. Aktau is also the main base for the country's nascent navy, which recently took delivery of its first proper warship, a missile boat called the “Kazakhstan.” And for Kazakhstan's leaders, the U.S. is a key to jumpstarting Aktau's development. Faced with massive logistical headaches inherent in fighting a war in distant, landlocked Afghanistan, the Pentagon has set up a series of transport routes through Central Asia and is looking to expand them. In addition, as it looks for a way to stabilize Afghanistan after it starts pulling out in 2014, the U.S. State Department has pledged to set up a “New Silk Road” of transcontinental transit that will center around Afghanistan. Kazakhstan is positioning Aktau to take advantage of both those U.S. priorities, as a node on the military transport network and on the future New Silk Road. The U.S. already ships military cargo through Aktau, but Kazakhstan is proposing a substantial expansion of that transit, which will in turn help Aktau develop its port, said Birzhan Keneshev, deputy governor of the Mangystau region (which includes Aktau), in an interview. “This is a good opportunity for the U.S. military to send goods through our seaport and airport. We will get good experience in organizing multi-modal transportation businesses, which we have not had until now in Kazakhstan,” Keneshev said. “It's a good way to set up some joint ventures with the American side, with logistics companies, and get this experience.” Kazakhstan also has attempted to dovetail its plans for Aktau with the U.S.'s vision of the New Silk Road. American diplomats, promoting the New Silk Road, frequently quote Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India saying “I dream of a day, while retaining our respective identities, one can have breakfast in Amritsar, lunch in Lahore, and dinner in Kabul.” Kazakhstan's ambassador in Washington, Erlan Idrissov, has adapted that phrase on a transcontinental scale, imagining a day when one can have "breakfast in Amritsar, lunch in Aktau and dinner in Dusseldorf." Neither the U.S. or Kazakhstan governments are commenting publicly on their negotiations over this new cooperation. In a statement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said: “Kazakhstan is ready to contribute to implementing the [New Silk Road] initiative in the form of some new projects. One of them is the Transportation and Logistics Center (TLC) in Aktau Sea Port.” The U.S. has long seen potential in Aktau, even before the development of the Afghan transit routes. One 2009 diplomatic cable released by Wikileaks was titled “THE STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE OF AKTAU SEA PORT.” Another, from 2008, compared Aktau's role on the New Silk Road to that of Samarkand on the original Silk Road: “Aktau is still a sleepy town...Its growth potential, however, is significant...The Kazakhstanis see Aktau as a potential "capital city" of the Caspian region, the central point for transportation, regional educational cooperation, and even tourism. If the cross-Caspian route is the new Silk Road for Central Asia, Aktau may yet prove to be its Samarkhand.”





=***Icebreaker Aff***= 


==---Advantages---== 
===States Quarters 1AC=== 
===Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its icebreaking operations for the creation of United States’ waterways.
===Contention One- Presence=== 


Arctic war coming now - multiple nations are involved
Rosenthal 9/18 (Elisabeth- NYT staff writer/contributor, “Race Is On as Ice Melt Reveals Arctic Treasures”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/19/science/earth/arctic-resources-exposed-by-warming-set-off-competition.html?pagewanted=all)
NUUK, Greenland — With Arctic ice melting at record pace, the world’s superpowers are increasingly jockeying for political influence and economic position in outposts like this one, previously regarded as barren wastelands.¶ At stake are the Arctic’s abundant supplies of oil, gas and minerals that are, thanks to climate change, becoming newly accessible along with increasingly navigable polar shipping shortcuts. This year, China has become a far more aggressive player in this frigid field, experts say, provoking alarm among Western powers.¶ While the United States, Russia and several nations of the European Union have Arctic territory, China has none, and as a result, has been deploying its wealth and diplomatic clout to secure toeholds in the region.¶ “The Arctic has risen rapidly on China’s foreign policy agenda in the past two years,” said Linda Jakobson, East Asia program director at the Lowy Institute for International Policy in Sydney, Australia. So, she said, the Chinese are exploring “how they could get involved.”¶ In August, China sent its first ship across the Arctic to Europe and it is lobbying intensely for permanent observer status on the Arctic Council, the loose international body of eight Arctic nations that develops policy for the region, arguing that it is a “near Arctic state” and proclaiming that the Arctic is “the inherited wealth of all humankind,” in the words of China’s State Oceanic Administration.¶ To promote the council bid and improve relations with Arctic nations, its ministers visited Denmark, Sweden and Iceland this summer, offering lucrative trade deals. High-level diplomats have also visited Greenland, where Chinese companies are investing in a developing mining industry, with proposals to import Chinese work crews for construction.¶ Western nations have been particularly anxious about Chinese overtures to this poor and sparsely populated island, a self-governing state within the Kingdom of Denmark, because the retreat of its ice cap has unveiled coveted mineral deposits, including rare earth metals that are crucial for new technologies like cellphones and military guidance systems. A European Union vice president, Antonio Tajani, rushed here to Greenland’s capital in June, offering hundreds of millions in development aid in exchange for guarantees that Greenland would not give China exclusive access to its rare earth metals, calling his trip “raw mineral diplomacy.”¶ Greenland is close to North America, and home to the United States Air Force’s northernmost base in Thule. At a conference last month, Thomas R. Nides, deputy secretary of state for management and resources, said the Arctic was becoming “a new frontier in our foreign policy.”¶ In the past 18 months, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea have made debut visits here, and Greenland’s prime minister, Kuupik Kleist, was welcomed by President José Manuel Barroso of the European Commission in Brussels.¶ “We are treated so differently than just a few years ago,” said Jens B. Frederiksen, Greenland’s vice premier, in his simple office here. “We are aware that is because we now have something to offer, not because they’ve suddenly discovered that Inuit are nice people.”¶ Chinese activity in the Arctic to some extent mirrors that of other non-Arctic countries, as the region warms.¶ The European Union, Japan and South Korea have also applied in the last three years for permanent observer status at the Arctic Council, which would allow them to present their perspective, but not vote.¶ This once-obscure body, previously focused on issues like monitoring Arctic animal populations, now has more substantive tasks, like defining future port fees and negotiating agreements on oil spill remediation. “We’ve changed from a forum to a decision-making body,” said Gustaf Lind, Arctic ambassador from Sweden and the council’s current chairman.¶ But China sees its inclusion “as imperative so that it won’t be shut out from decisions on minerals and shipping,” said Dr. Jakobson, who is also an Arctic researcher at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. China’s economy is heavily dependent on exports, and the polar route saves time, distance and money to and from elsewhere in Asia and Europe, compared with traversing the Suez Canal.¶ So far there has been little actual exploitation of Arctic resources. Greenland has only one working mine, though more than 100 new sites are being mapped out. Here, as well as in Alaska, Canada and Norway, oil and gas companies are still largely exploring, although experts estimate that more than 20 percent of the world’s oil and gas reserves are in the Arctic. Warmer weather has already extended the work season by a month in many locations, making access easier.¶ At one point this summer, 97 percent of the surface of Greenland’s massive ice sheet was melting. At current rates, Arctic waters could be ice-free in summer by the end of the decade, scientists say.¶ “Things are happening much faster than what any scientific model predicted,” said Dr. Morten Rasch, who runs the Greenland Ecosystem Monitoring program at Aarhus University in Denmark.¶ Ownership of the Arctic is governed by the United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea, which gives Arctic nations an exclusive economic zone that extends 200 nautical miles from land, and to undersea resources farther away so long as they are on a continental shelf. The far northern Arctic Ocean belongs to no country, and conditions there are severe. In a place where exact boundaries were never much of a concern, haggling over borders has begun among the primary nations — between Canada and Denmark, and the United States and Canada, for example.¶ The United States has been hampered in the current jockeying because the Senate has refused to ratify the Convention of the Law of the Sea, even though both the Bush and Obama administrations have strongly supported doing so. This means the United States has not been able to formally stake out its underwater boundaries. “We are being left behind,” Deputy Secretary Nides said.¶ But experts say boundary disputes are likely to be rapidly resolved through negotiation, so that everyone can get on with the business of making money. There is “very little room for a race to grab territory, since most of the resources are in an area that is clearly carved up already,” said Kristofer Bergh, a researcher at the Stockholm Institute.¶ Even so, Arctic nations and NATO are building up military capabilities in the region, as a precaution. That has left China with little choice but to garner influence through a strategy that has worked well in Africa and Latin America: investing and joining with local companies and financing good works to earn good will. Its scientists have become pillars of multinational Arctic research, and their icebreaker has been used in joint expeditions.¶ And Chinese companies, some with close government ties, are investing heavily across the Arctic. In Canada, Chinese firms have acquired interests in two oil companies that could afford them access to Arctic drilling. During a June visit to Iceland, Premier Wen Jiabao of China signed a number of economic agreements, covering areas like geothermal energy and free trade.¶ In Greenland, large Chinese companies are financing the development of mines that are being developed around discoveries of gems or minerals by small prospecting companies, said Soren Meisling, head of the China desk at the Bech Bruun law firm in Copenhagen, which represents many of them. A huge iron ore mine under development near Nuuk, for example, is owned by a British company but financed in part by a Chinese steel maker.¶ Chinese mining companies have proved adept at working in challenging locales and have even proposed building runways for jumbo jets on the ice in Greenland’s far north to fly out minerals until the ice melts enough for shipping.¶ “There is already a sense of competition in the Arctic, and they think they can have first advantage,” said Jingjing Su, a lawyer in Bech Bruun’s China practice.¶ The efforts have clear political backing. Greenland’s minister for industry and mineral resources was greeted by Vice Premier Li Keqiang in China last November. A few months later, China’s minister of land and resources, Xu Shaoshi, traveled to Greenland to sign cooperation agreements.¶ Western analysts have worried that China could leverage its wealth, particularly in some of the cash-poor corners of the Arctic like Greenland and Iceland.

The Coast Guard is increasing Arctic presence through “Arctic Shield” – more icebreakers are key to its effectiveness
Slattery 10/26 (Brian Slattery- Research Assistant, Defense Studies Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, 10/26/2012, “Arctic Shield: Coast Guard Looking North”, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/10/26/arctic-shield-coast-guard-looking-north/”)
The Arctic has become a hotbed of interest in recent years. The Coast Guard has recognized this trend and is pursuing more presence in the region, but will its resources be able to keep up with rapidly increasing traffic? Rear Admiral Thomas P. Ostebo, commander of the 17th District of the U.S. Coast Guard, recently testified before Congress during a field hearing about Arctic issues and the sea service’s exercise “Arctic Shield 2012.” Ostebo explained the purpose of the exercise, the lessons learned, and what new assets and capabilities they brought to the region. While the exercise is considered a success, the Coast Guard requires more resources to make these capabilities a reality. Notably at Arctic Shield, the Coast Guard stationed two helicopters in Barrow, Alaska (the northernmost point in the U.S.), to afford the sea service increased presence, situational awareness, and reach within the Arctic Circle. The USCGC Bertholf, the first-in-class of the National Security Cutter (NSC) fleet, also deployed to the region, marking an important milestone for a cutter class intended to provide increased range and presence farther from the coast. Both of these firsts indicate that the Coast Guard is aware of growing interests in the Arctic for natural resources such as hydrocarbons and fisheries, expanding sea lanes, and tourism. In spite of Arctic Shield’s success, the Coast Guard may have trouble keeping up with real-world increased traffic in northern U.S. waters while executing its various other missions. The sea service has already been operating with old and overused equipment, particularly in its High Endurance Cutter fleet. The Hamilton-class fleet has been sailing since the 1960s and has extended well beyond its intended service life. The NSC, intended to replace this fleet, has been cut from a requirement of 16 vessels to just eight. Sadly, the Coast Guard is having trouble meeting even that reduced requirement. The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) fiscal year 2013 budget request removes advanced funding for the seventh and eighth planned NSCs, which would effectively eliminate their production. No justification has been offered by the Coast Guard or DHS as to how this will affect Coast Guard missions and maritime security. Also critical to missions in the Arctic is America’s icebreaking capability. Regrettably, this is one capability that is more lacking than even the High Endurance Cutter fleet. The U.S. Coast Guard has two heavy-duty icebreakers, neither of which is currently operational. One is set to be revitalized, but this will be costly and add only a few years to the vessel’s service life. A new heavy-duty icebreaker would cost nearly a billion dollars and take a decade to build. Considering that the Coast Guard’s total recapitalization budget for fiscal year 2013 is $1.2 billion, it would be difficult to afford much else if the sea service wishes to buy a new icebreaker, even over 10 years. Moreover, what will be covering Arctic waters during the decade that the vessel is being built? The U.S. should instead pursue leasing commercial icebreakers that can serve Coast Guard missions when necessary. This will be cost effective and provide presence more immediately. Representative Frank LoBiondo (R–NJ), chairman of the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, has claimed that the Coast Guard is caught in a “death spiral” because growing missions are dramatically outpacing fleet modernization and replacement. His colleagues in the House and Senate should recognize the critical security America gains from the Coast Guard and provide adequate funding for the sea service to perform its missions.

Lack of effective presence makes Russian resource and territorial grabs inevitable- it also undermines cooperation
Dowd 11 – MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute
Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979
One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by drilling and shipping. In addition, competition for Arctic resources could lead to confrontation. Adm. James Stavridis, who serves as NATO’s military commander, concedes that the Arctic could become “a zone of conflict” (UPI).¶ To brace for that possibility and thwart Russia’s Arctic fait accompli, the United States, Canada, Denmark and Norway—all NATO members and Arctic nations—should follow the Cold War playbook: build up the assets needed to defend their interests, use those assets to deter aggression, and deal with Moscow from a posture of strength and unity.¶ The challenge is to remain open to cooperation while bracing for worst-case scenarios. After all, Russia is not the Soviet Union. Even as Putin and his puppets make mischief, Moscow is open to making deals. Russia and Norway, for instance, recently resolved a long-running boundary dispute, paving the way for development in 67,000 square-miles of the Arctic. Moreover, the U.S., Russia, Canada, Denmark and Norway have agreed on Arctic search-and-rescue responsibilities (Cummins).¶ In a world of increasingly integrated markets, we know there is much to gain from Arctic cooperation and much to lose from protracted military standoff. But we also know that dealing naively with Moscow carries a heavy cost—and that integration is a two-way street. ¶ “Russian leaders today yearn not for integration,” the Brookings Institution’s Robert Kagan concludes, “but for a return to a special Russian greatness.” ¶ In short, Russia is more interested in recreating the autarky of some bygone era than in the shared benefits of globalization. ¶ Framework for Partnership¶ Dealing with Russia is about power. As Churchill once said of his Russian counterparts, “There is nothing they admire so much as strength, and there is nothing for which they have less respect than for weakness.”¶ When the message is clear—or “hard and consistent,” to use Putin’s language—Russia will take a cooperative posture. When the message is unclear, Russia will take what it can get. ¶ Just consider Russia’s contrasting treatment of its neighbors: Moscow blusters about Poland and the Baltic states but keeps its hands off, largely because they are protected by the U.S.-NATO umbrella. Conversely, Russia bullies Ukraine, garrisons its troops—uninvited—in Moldova, and occupies Georgian territory. The common denominator of these unfortunate countries: They have no U.S. security guarantee. ¶ Russia should be given an opportunity to participate as a responsible partner in Arctic development. But if Russia continues to take Putin’s hard line, the U.S. and its allies are left with few other options than standing together or allowing Russia to divide and conquer. ¶ To avoid that, the allies may need to agree among themselves on lines of demarcation, transit routes and exploration rights—and then pool their resources to protect their shared interests. ¶ This will require investment in Arctic capabilities. For instance, the U.S. has only three polar icebreakers, two of which have exceeded their projected 30-year lifespan (O’Rourke). Russia can deploy 20 icebreakers. ¶ “We have extremely limited Arctic response capabilities,” explains Adm. Robert Papp, USCG commandant. Noting that the Coast Guard has “the lead role in ensuring Arctic maritime safety, security and stewardship,” Papp urges Congress “to start building infrastructure up there” (Joling and Papp).¶ Washington’s defense cuts will only exacerbate these gaps, especially as Russia’s oil-aided boom enables it to retool its armed forces. Investing just 1.1 percent of its GDP on defense, Canada faces even greater challenges in defending its Arctic interests. ¶ But if the allies can combine their Arctic capabilities—each filling a niche role—and agree on a common approach to Arctic security, the framework to put those capabilities into practice is arguably already in place. ¶ Jointly operated by the U.S. and Canada, NORAD could serve as the model for an Arctic security partnership. Just as NORAD defends North American airspace, an allied maritime arrangement under the NORAD rubric could provide for security in Arctic waters. ¶ It’s worth noting that maritime surveillance was added to NORAD’s responsibilities in 2006. And in 2011, the Pentagon shifted responsibility for most Arctic operations to Northern Command (NORTHCOM), headed up by the same person who commands NORAD (Elliot). ¶ Preparing¶ Bracing for military eventualities in the Arctic is not armchair alarmism. ¶ In fact, Gen. Gene Renuart, former NORTHCOM commander, reported in 2008 that U.S. officials were beginning to explore ways to “posture NORAD…to provide the right kind of search and rescue, military response, if need be, and certainly security for whatever activities occur in the Arctic.”¶ “In order to ensure a peaceful opening of the Arctic,” adds Adm. James Winnefeld, current NORTHCOM commander, “DOD must anticipate today the Arctic operations that will be expected of it tomorrow.”¶ In other words, the goal in preparing for worst-case scenarios and shoring up allied resolve in the Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.

That escalates to nuclear war

Staples 09 (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming an zone of increased military competition. Russian President Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims. Russian General Vladimir Shamanov declared that Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.” This week, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 years.6 In January, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. As Michael Hamel-Greene has pointed out, it affirmed as a priority to preserve U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic. The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar in Eastern Europe, has greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep water port. Denmark last week released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with ship-based helicopters able to drop troops anywhere. Danish fighter planes could be patrolling Greenlandic airspace. Last year, Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs. The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved. Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN Under-Secretary for Disarmament Affairs, summarizes the situation bluntly. He warns us that “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that two nuclear weapon states – the United States and the Russian Federation, which together own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on the Arctic and have competing claims. These claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”

A hardline approach is necessary to prevent conflict escalation, miscalculation, and great power war- newest and most complex models prove
Murray 12 (Professor of Political Science @ Alberta

Robert, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1, 4 pt font is for long passages without relevant information)

It is no overstatement to say that the end of the Cold War was one of the most important events in recent world history. Scholars from many areas of study have used the fall of the Soviet Union as a starting point to explain shifts in security, globalization, humanitarianism and institutional integration, all of which played important roles in world affairs in the immediate post-Cold War era. Since 1991, explanatory models for international and global politics have broadened their scope to include variables such as individual preferences, capitalist oppression, ideational construction, environmentalism, gender and sexual politics, and discursive power to levels previously unforeseen throughout the Cold War years. As such, we now see the world as a far more complex and nefarious arena in which power and dominance are exercised each day. At the systemic level, the fall of the Soviet Union equated to nothing short of a monumental shift in the way states would make foreign and defence strategy. For 50 years, the bipolar system was dominated by two superpowers constantly competing and building arms in an effort to balance one another. The end of the Cold War signalled a major shift in systemic arrangement, as the system went from being bipolar to the world entering what was often referred to as the “unipolar moment.”1 The era of unipolarity and American hegemony in the international system has been marked by stability in an interstate sense, and the realignment of various spheres of influence in the wake of the Soviet Union’s demise. Far from being just a theoretical notion, the unipolar moment has also provided states with an environment in which to pursue their national self-interest where the likelihood of conflict is decreased and great power security competition has been minimized.2 As such, new areas of foreign affairs and defence strategy have become far more important than they could have been throughout the bipolar con- strained Cold War years. One of the most notable examples in this regard has been the increased desire for territorial protection and extension in the Arctic region. In an era of state preoccupation with humanitarianism, terrorism and economic reces- sion, it is being suggested by some observers that the Arctic has become the primary stage through which states, both great and minor in power, can pursue their self-interest in a way that combines soft power cooperation through bodies of gov- ernance with hard power and military build-up. As things presently stand, there are a variety of nations and institutions all seek- ing to claim governing authority over different parts of the circumpolar region. Nations making claims to parts of the Arctic Ocean or other northern waters include Canada, Russia, the United States, Norway, Iceland and Denmark/Greenland. On the institutional side, Arctic governance has been debated and defined by bodies such as the United Nations, the European Union, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the Arctic Council.3 To date, no clear resolution to competing claims is in sight, and in some cases the situation is on the verge of becoming far more competitive as nations such as Russia have resorted to asserting possible military solutions to contested Arctic issues to bolster their declarations. It is important to note the increased levels of interest over Arctic relations between states, but, on this point, little attention has been given to the influence of the international system over this situation. If the unipolar moment has been defined as an era of relative stability and diplomatic coexistence, and tensions in the Arctic are already on the rise, what is to happen when the multipolar system finally emerges in the near future? Since 2005, the status of the United States as systemic hegemon has been in decline due to economic, military and political strains placed on American power capabilities throughout the Bush era and beyond. This decrease in relative power preponderance has been even further exacerbated by the economic recession starting in 2008 and the nation’s inability to stabilize its markets. As such, the predictions of those like Christopher Layne and John Mearsheimer are on the verge of coming to fruition, in that the unipolar moment is about to end.4 New great powers are ris- ing, the United States is no longer able to prevent these nations from balancing their power, and the once obvious prevalence of American power is far murkier than it was a decade ago. As the multipolar era becomes increasingly likely, one must ponder the effects this shift might have on state foreign and defence strategy- making, especially towards the Arctic region. To date, though its relative power position has declined significantly in recent years, the United States remains the hegemon of the international system, but it is contended here that such status is soon to evaporate. In this context, this article argues that the emergence of a multipolar systemic arrangement is very likely to increase security competition in the system as a whole, and the Arctic will be at the epicentre of such conflict. To lend support to this hypothesis, an examination of the impending shift from unipolarity to multipolarity will be made, as will an account of current security dynamics in the circumpolar region. The article concludes with a stark warning that without some kind of real action towards settling competing Arctic claims, it will beleft to states to secure their own territorial assertions through hard power and forceful means. The system is unipolar ... for now In order to evaluate the polarity of the international system in a given historical period, one must identify the hierarchy of power in terms of the number of super or great powers dominating international outcomes. Counting great or super powers can be somewhat difficult in contemporary international relations, as scholars have begun to expand the notions of power and capabilities, but the clearest guideline for being able to identify great powers is through determining capabilities. The rea- son it is essential to understand the great powers in international relations is that they, above all other states, institutions, non-state actors and ideational forces, are responsible for the daily conduct of behaviour in the international system, and they have been historically accountable for substantial alterations to power distribution since the 1648 Peace of Westphalia. Measuring capabilities allows observers to explain which states are most likely to affect the behaviour of other states, to use force or violence; also, the number of great powers in a given era determines how stable or unstable the international system will be. Identifying great powers is literally done by evaluating each state’s capabilities in essential areas of political life that can maximize security or extend one’s power. When discussing the distribution of power across states, there is a clear hierarchy of capabilities among states that leads observers to classify these utility maximizing, rational actors as super, great, major, middle or minor powers in the international system. In terms of actual measurement, Kenneth Waltz argues: “Their rank depends on how they score on all of the following items: size of population and territory, resource endowment, economic capability, military strength, political stability and competence.”5 Once these various factors are taken into account, one can clearly determine the given polarity of the system at a given moment in history. Why is polarity important? According to structural realist theory, the number of great powers in the system determines how conflictual, violent or stable interna- tional politics will be. While the overall structure of the system remains anarchic, meaning a clear absence of a governing authority above states that can control their actions, there can be consequential variations within the anarchic structure that can impact how states will evaluate their foreign and defence policy strategies and affect their overall behaviour. Waltz claims that “ ‘consequential’ variations in number are changes of number that lead to different expectations about the effect of structure on units.”6 There are three types of structure within the system that have been determined throughout the history of the modern state system – unipolarity, bipolar- ity and multipolarity. The consequential variations described by Waltz take place when great powers either rise or fall, and induce shifts from one type of polarity to another. The rise and fall of great powers is perhaps the most important explanatory aspect of international politics because it is these states that “inherently possess some offensive military capability, which gives them the wherewithal to hurt and possibly destroy each other.”7 Though the primary motivation for all states is secu- rity maximization, great powers become the most important actors because while they are capable of defending themselves, they also have the ability to extend their sphere of influence in offensive posturing. It is in this context that the polarity of the system becomes even more vital, in that the more great powers there are, the greater likelihood ofviolence and conflict there is. In each systemic arrangement, the abilities of great powers to pursue their ultimate goal, which is hegemony, dic- tates whether foreign and defence policy strategies will be overtly defensive or potentially offensive. All states are like-units, in that they all strive for survival by making rational calculations about how to best pursue their interests in an anarchic system. Of course, strategies of states will differ greatly based on the distribution of power, meaning that great powers are able to pursue their goals more freely than minor powers because they can operate without allies or institutions in achieving their goals. Lesser powers, however, typically try to increase their power position in world affairs through various alliance blocs and institutional binding. In doing so, it is hoped that middle and minor powers are able to guarantee their survival by align- ing themselves with powers larger than themselves. Given the arrangement of the system, the number of alliances or blocs of power will differ, which also contributes to just how stable or violent the system will be. Conflict, or the possibility of it, is a constant problem in international relations due to the anarchic structure of the international system. Anarchy, by its definition, denotes a lack of overarching authority and thus states, especially the most powerful states, are able to behave as they would like, without any external body capable of controlling their actions. Robert Art and Robert Jervis aptly define anarchy by argu- ing: “States can make commitments and treaties, but no sovereign power ensures compliance and punished deviation. This – the absence of a supreme power – is what is meant by the anarchic environment of international politics.”8 In anarchy, just as in the state of nature or war prior to the establishment of civilized human society, there is no harmony and actors are left to their own inclinations to pursue their self-interest. The key elements of anarchy that precipitate conflict are the con- stant distrust of others’ motives, the assumption that other actors may not be as rational as oneself, and, as Waltz notes, “a state will use force to attain its goals if, after assessing the prospects for success, it values those goals more than it values the pleasures of peace.”9 The constant tensions between states, and the ability of great powers to more freely pursue their national interests, contributes to a system where security and survival are at a premium, and the polarity of the system matters to all states. By definition, bipolar systems are the most stable. According to Mearsheimer, this assumption is made based on three criteria: First, the number of conflict dyads is fewer, leaving fewer possibilities for war. Sec- ond, deterrence is easier, because imbalances of power are fewer and more easily averted. Third, the prospects for deterrence are greater because miscalculations of rela- tive power and opponents’ resolve are fewer and less likely.10 By contrast, multipolar systems have a far greater probability of conflict, tension and distrust among states. War is far more likely in multipolar systems because major power dyads are more numerous, each posing the potential for conflict. Conflict could also erupt across dyads involving major and minor powers. Dyads between minor powers could also lead to war [...]. Wars in a multipolar world involving just minor powers or only one major power are not likely to be as devastating as a conflict between two major powers. However, local wars tend to widen and escalate. Hence there is always a chance that a small war will trigger a general conflict.11 While bipolarity is considered to be the most stable arrangement, and multipolarity the least stable, there is also the rare time when the system is unipolar in character. Put simply, unipolarity occurs when there is such a preponderance of power by one state that others are incapable of balancing against it. According to William Wohl- forth, unipolarity is also a stable and peaceful arrangement: unipolarity favors the absence of war among the great powers and comparatively low levels of competition for prestige or security for two reasons: the leading state’s power advantage removes the problem of hegemonic rivalry from world politics, and it reduces the salience and stakes of balance-of-power politics among the major states.12 The status of the hegemonic power in a unipolar system allows for the expansion of its normative agenda, but also allows it to pacify internationalaffairs because it lacks both a hegemonic rival and the effects of balance of power politics.13 As such, unipolar systems can be stable, depending on whom the hegemon is and what its vision for dominance might be. Since the end of World War II, only two types of polarity have been seen. Between 1945 and 1991, the system was bipolar, in that there were only two super- powers dominating the affairs of international politics. This bipolar arrangement was surprisingly stable and though smaller proxy wars erupted throughout the years of the Cold War, the relations between the two dominant powers, namely the United States and the Soviet Union, never came to a head. There are various explanations for why this was the case, but John Mearsheimer provides perhaps the most concise and accurate explanations as he contends that the absence of war in Europe and beyond throughout the Cold War can be attributed to three specific factors: the bipolar distribution of military power on the [European] Continent; the rough mili- tary equality between the two states comprising the two poles in Europe, the United States and the Soviet Union; and the fact that each superpower was armed with a large nuclear arsenal.14 At the conclusion of the Cold War, there was a clear and major shift in the distribution of power in the system, which translated into the unipolar moment. With the fall of the Soviet Union, the United States retained its superpower status and held a preponderance of power in virtually all areas of capabilities measurement. Christopher Layne contends that American hegemony is contingent upon two factors: First, the United States enjoys a commanding preeminence in both military and eco- nomic power. Second, since the Soviet Union’s disappearance, no other great power has emerged to challenge US preponderance. In this sense, US hegemony is the result of objective material conditions.15 Throughout the Clinton and early years of the Bush administrations, the role of the United States as systemic hegemon was virtually unquestioned, and it seemed as if American hegemony could last for a very long time. It was not until the latter years of the Bush administration that the waning of American hegemony began to become apparent. One of the key reasons the system remains unipolar is that there has yet to be a state that can balance against US power in either the hard or soft power senses. That said, the main reason for the decline in American hegemony has been a costly set of irrational and ill-advised foreign policy decisions, combined with years of economic overvaluation that eroded the hegemonic position of the world’s lone superpower.16 Both the intervention into Iraq, starting in 2003, and the fallout of the 2008 recession have served to substantially weaken the United States in both the hard and soft power contexts, and thus it is clear that a multipolar system is on the horizon. As Layne notes, “although a new geopolitical balance has yet to emerge, there is considerable evidence that other states have been engaging in bal- ancing against the United States – including hard balancing.”17 Theemerging great powers, especially China and Russia, will have a profound impact on the conduct of international relations in the years to come. Perhaps the most important area of security competition that has gone under- scrutinized from a systemic standpoint is the increased level of interest in the Arctic. Currently, the competing claims for the circumpolar region are mostly peaceful and focusing on diplomatic and legal battles, but recent trends suggest that non-violent strategy may not continue. As the era of American hegemony comes to an end, and a multipolar system begins to emerge, the impact on the Arctic region is likely to beprofound due to the militaristic nature of state security strategies, unpredictability and a potential retreat from cooperationnormally seen in multipolar structures. The Arctic in the unipolar moment One of the cornerstones of America’s unipolar moment has been the remarkable decline in interstate conflict. Since the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, the interna- tional system has not been on the verge of any major war, nor have great powers aggressively pursued policies that would balance against American power in a way that would be taken seriously. According to many scholarly studies, the world since the end of the Cold War has become far more secure in the interstate sense, and security and defence policies of states are now preoccupied more with human- centric and intrastate variables than anything else. Though it is difficult to deny that the world has become more stable at the systemic level, the role of hard power and military capabilities did not disappear with the Soviet Union; instead, the use of militarism to achieve national goals in the unipolar moment greatly decreased as a direct result of the values and grand strategy of the United States. The impact of a unipolar systemic arrangement on state behaviour is best explained by the hegemonic stability theory.18 According to this theory, a unipolar structure is able to pacify the relations of states because there is recognition of the hegemon’s ability to control or intervene in conflicts that may threaten its power, or the order of the system. Wohlforth summarizes the basic precept of hegemonic stability theory by contending: The theory stipulates that especially powerful states (“hegemons”) foster international orders that are stable until differential growth in power produces a dissatisfied state with the capability to challenge the dominant state for leadership. The clearer and lar- ger the concentration of power in the leading state, the more peaceful the international order associated with it will be [...] If the system is unipolar, the great power hierar- chy should be much more stable than any hierarchy lodged within a system of more than one pole. Because unipolarity is based on a historically unprecedented concentra- tion of power in the United States, a potentially important source of great power con- flict – hegemonic rivalry – will be missing.19 It is essential to note two things about the status of the United States as systemic hegemon throughout the immediate post-Cold War era – first, that its preponderance of power in every area of capability measurement created a stable and less tense system in which states were able to interact; and second, that the United States’ time as hegemon has fostered the growth of multilateral institutions and agreements rather than a bullying type of unipolarity.20 From a systemic standpoint, it would seem that there is little reason to be concerned about military aggression, arms racing and distrustful competition in the modern system, but one vital concern to note is that much of the unipolar and hegeomic stability literature completely ignores the role of the Arctic in state security calculations. Throughout an era of institutional binding, regional integra- tion, humanitarianism and soft power growth, the competition for the Arctic was following much of the same pattern, with states preferring to make their claims in institutional or legal settings. Yet, as the unipolar moment has started to decline, and multipolarity is on the horizon, the competition in the circumpolar region has taken on a very different tone. Competing claims over Arctic territories, such as the Northwest Passage, Beaufort Sea and other maritime boundaries, and the use of the region as a space for military exercises are by no means new and they have not come to the forefront of the strategic security agendas of states since the post-9/11 era. Rather, throughout the Cold War, the Arctic was a realm of constant supervision, not because either superpower wanted to develop the region, but more because of the mutual fear each side had of offensive attacks being launched over the pole. Even throughout the unipolar moment, the Arctic has been a space for sovereignty competition, but the nature of the competition had been mostly legal, institutional or soft power focused.21 Worth noting as well is the very complex nature of reasons for state interests in the Arctic. Mark Nuttall effectively summarizes the complexities of the high north as he claims: In the post-Cold War world [the Arctic] is seen as a natural scientific laboratory, under- stood as a homeland for indigenous peoples, a place of sovereignty conflicts, an emerg- ing hydrocarbon province with which the world is coming to think of as one of the last major frontiers for oil and gas, and a region of dramatic environmental change.22 Though the intricacies of Arctic competition are intriguing to note, it is how states are strategically asserting their claims that is of particular importance. The start of America’s hegemonic decline has allowed states to revisit their approaches to the Arctic as nations jockey for position by balancing or rivalling American preferences. As a result, the nature of Arctic competition has incorporated both soft power and hard power elements. Further, the nature of militarism and hard power tension has increased due to the recent spending and strategic shifts by many Arctic states in recent years, including Canada, Norway, Sweden and Russia.23 The reasons for America’s decline are relatively unsurprising – military overextension in Afghanistan and Iraq; the lack of international support for American foreign policy objectives throughout the Bush era; the 2008 economic recession; and the utter dis- trust by most states, including close American allies, of the United States’ political objectives.24 The system remains unipolar, of course, but as stated above, the pre- ponderance of power capabilities hassubstantially diminished, opening the door for others to balance and rival American power in the coming years. Coincidentally, it has also been the revelations of science in recent years that have also promoted a faster pace for those states making Arctic claims. The role of climate change and its impact over the Arctic has allowed for states to more freely move into the region and pursue strategies previously unavailable.25 According to Lotta Numminen, climate change has recently affected states’ perceptions of the possible economic opportunities in the Arctic in four ways: first, that the subsurface of the Arctic Ocean floor is assumed to contain substantial oil and gas reserves, to which there will be increased access; second, that melting waters will provide new waters for international fisheries; third, the increase in research strategies; and fourth, is the greater access to sea passages.26 One of the main reasons states see the Arctic region as such a lucrative area is the potential for increasing their respec- tive economic and natural resource capabilities. Previously, the northern ice caps prevented states from entering most of the Arctic Ocean and surrounding areas, but as these environmental situations change, states have readily identified the high north as a priority in both their security and economic strategies. Among the main reasons the Arctic has not been more readily seen as a poten- tial area for security competition and conflict is the interpretation that the United States has little or no interest in the circumpolar region at all. According to Stephen Brooks and William Wohlforth, American hegemony throughout the post-Cold War era was seen as passive, stable and enduring because of the lack of counterpower being demonstrated in the system: Bounded by oceans to the east and west and weak, friendly powers to the north and south, the United States is both less vulnerable than previous aspiring hegemons and also less threatening to others. The main potential challengers to its unipolarity, mean- while – China, Russia, Japan, and Germany – are in the opposite position. They can- not augment their military capabilities so as to balance the United States without simultaneously becoming an immediate threat to their neighbors. Politics, even interna- tional politics, is local. Although American power attracts a lot of attention globally, states are usually more concerned with their own neighborhoods than with the global equilibrium. Were any of the potential challengers to make a serious run at the United States, regional balancing efforts would almost certainly help contain them, as would the massive latent power capabilities of the United States, which could be mobilized as necessary to head off an emerging threat.27 Almost completely omitted from such interpretations, however, are America’s north- ern borders over Alaska and into the Arctic. Latitudinal thinking would seem to indicate that Brooks and Wohlforth are correct in terms of America’s interests in many areas of the globe, but this ignores what has been happening at the top of the world in the high north. It is not as if the United States has been ignorant of its own decline in power, especially regarding the Arctic. In 2009, the United States issued National Security Presidential Directive 66 and Homeland Security Presidential Directive 25 that deal exclusively with American Arctic policy. According to these directives, the altera- tions to national policies of other states regarding the Arctic compelled the United States to clearly outline the security and development strategies they would use to protect its Arctic interests. Among the first, and most clear, elements of the direc- tives is the clear intention of the United States to defend their national security interests. According to Article III, subsection B 1 of the directives: The United States has broad and fundamental national security interests in the Arctic region and is prepared to operate either independently or in conjunction with other states to safeguard these interests. These interests include suchmatters as missile defense and early warning; deployment ofsea and air systems for strategic sealift, strategic deterrence, maritime presence, and maritime security operations; and ensuring freedom of navigation and overflight.28 The contemporary changes to the international system as the era of American hegemony has begun to wane, the effects of climate change and greater access, and the increasingly militaristic strategies of most every Arctic state have led to a situation where tensions are at an all time high, and that legal or institutional processes are unlikely to resolve anything amicably. As the system continues its transition away from unipolarity, observers are left to ponder what might come next after an era of relative interstate stability. Multipolarity and the circumpolar In their 2002 article on the nature of United States primacy and the enduring aspects of American hegemony, Brooks and Wohlforth argue that the United States would have to act as a benevolent hegemon in order to prevent counterbalancing and to be able to build effective regimes worldwide. They argue: Magnanimity and restraint in the face of temptation are tenets of successful statecraft that have proved their worth from classical Greece onward. Standing taller than lead- ing states of the past, the United States has unprecedented freedom to do as it pleases. It can play the game for itself alone or for the system as a whole; it can focus on small returns today or larger ones tomorrow. If the administration truly wants to be loved as well as feared, the policy answers are not hard to find.29 The problem with such analyses of American hegemony is that the Bush administration chose to ignore utterly such warnings and, rather than acting mag- nanimously, post-9/11 American foreign policy did precisely what it should not have. Pre-emption, coercion and irrational interventions, combined with a major economic recession, all serve to explain why American hegemony began to decline by 2005 in terms of both actual power levels and perceptions of legitimate hege- monic status.30 The clearest sign that American exceptionalism has been decreasing is the aggressive and regional balancing dynamics taking place between states in the Arctic region. Security strategy in the circumpolar region has altered dramatically since 2005, with more states showing interest, hard power spending increasing, and legal pro- cesses being coupled by at times overtly offensive strategy.31 Russia, Canada and a number of European states, especially Norway and Sweden, exemplify this line of argument about how sovereignty claims have become focused on traditional inter- state arms racing and militarism while soft power components, like governance structures and legal processes, continually evolve.32 As mentioned previously, even the United States has woken up to see that, as their hegemony declines, other states have begun to balance against them in the Arctic, thus provoking the 2009 Presi- dential Directives. Even so, Arctic interested nations have not yielded to American claims, nor has there been any evidence of America’s closest allies backing down in the face of its Arctic assertions, most clearly evidenced by Canada’s continued claims over the Northwest Passage.33 In the international relations canon, most observers point to either India or China as emerging great powers that are the most likely to counterbalance Ameri- can power. The 2004 American National Intelligence Council report highlights this theory by stating: The likely emergence of China and India as new major global players – similar to the rise of Germany in the 19th century and the United States in the early 20th century – will transform the geopolitical landscape, with impacts potentially as dramatic as those of the previous two centuries. In the same way that commentators refer to the 1900s as the American Century, the early 21st century may be seen as the time when some in the developing world led by China and India came into their own.34 Both China and India have recently expressed their interest in Arctic affairs, but no power is as close to rivalling or challenging American power in hard power terms than Russia. This is especially true in the Arctic, as Russia’s Arctic policies have made its intentions towards asserting its control over territory it deems to be sovereign very clear. The role of the Arctic in Russian foreign policy cannot be understated. According to Russia’s 2008 Arctic policy document, the region is seen as the epicentre of Russia’s military and socio-economic development. The top two priorities for Russian Arctic interests are defined as follows: (a) In the sphere of socio-economic development – the expansion of the resource base of the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation, in order to substantially satisfy Russia’s needs in hydrocarbon resources, hydro-biological resources, and other types of strate- gic raw materials; (b) In the sphere of military security, defense, and safekeeping of the state borders of the Russian Federation located in the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation – the upkeep of a favorable operational regime in the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federa- tion, including the maintenance of the required combat potential of military groupings under the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations and agencies in this region [...]35 In order to achieve these goals, the Russians have created a unique military brigade to be permanently posted in the Arctic, have placed a Russian Federation flag on the Arctic Ocean seabed, have conducted various missile tests, have sailed their nuclear submarines through contested waters and have openly challenged the abilities of other states to enforce their own claims. In response to Russian offensive posturing and the inability of the United States to dissuade security competition in the area, middle and minor powers have begun to use hard power as a means of trying to enforce their sovereignty. Perhaps the best example here is Canada, whose military capabilities are extremely weak, but strong rhetoric and a drastically increased level of high-north military spending since 2006 seems to indicate that the Canadian government cannot rely on its American alliances to protect its interests, and that posturing by states like Russia or even Denmark clearly threaten Canada’s national interests. As Norway, Sweden and Denmark have begun to put an emphasis on hard power capabilities to extend or defend northern claims, Canada has done the same. Worth noting as well in the Canadian context is that, while great powers like Russia and the United States can easily defeat any middle or minor power, Canada’s capabilities are being either rivalled or surpassed by European states like Norway.36 Canada’s realization of the evolving security and environmental climate in the Arctic has compelled changes to its domestic and foreign security policies, each seeking to assert Canadian sovereignty over areas of the Arctic, especially the Northwest Passage. One of the main components of now Prime Minister Harper’s 2005–06 campaign was to bolster Arctic security resources, as many Canadians have identified the region as an essential part of Canada’s national security and identity.37 Rob Huebert argues: The Harper government has increasingly recognized the significance of maintaining a strong presence in the Arctic and has vigorously begun to improve Canada’s northern abilities [...] The Harper government has also made a series of promises to consider- ably expand Canada’s northern capability [...] If these promises are implemented, Canada will have significantly improved its ability to control activity in its Arctic.38 In virtually any other area of the world, Canadian national security cannot be divorced from the United States, which is a partial explanation for why Canada has traditionally been considered a middle power since the end of World War II.39 Yet, since the start of American decline, the Canadian government has recognized that its fate in the Arctic will be its own, and not intrinsically tied to the protection of the United States, as the Americans have their own interests in the region and have shown a complete disregard for Canadian claims over the Northwest Passage and the Beaufort Sea. As the world moves towards multipolarity, it has become increasingly obvious that the Arctic region represents an area of increased security competition and a potentially conflictual region in the future. Multipolar systems are the most unsta- ble, and history has shown these to produce military conflict due to the natural effects brought by a larger number of self-interested powers vying for power and security. Further, as new great powers begin to emerge, American strategic consid- erations will be spread so thin that they will be unable to prevent against their even- tual loss of hegemony. The largest mistake being made at this time by international security scholars and policymakers is their normal obsession with China, India and latitudinal thinking. The next area of major war is not likely to be the Middle East, the Indian Ocean or the South China Sea, due to traditional security balancing, deterrence and economic interests in each of these areas. Multipolarity naturally brings the possibility of war. Mearsheimer contends that war is far more likely in multipolar systems for three reasons: First, there are more opportunities for war, because there are more potential conflict dyads in a multipolar system. Second, imbalances of power are more commonplace in a multipolar world, and thus great powers are more likely to have the capability to win a war, making deterrence more difficult and war more likely. Third, the potential for miscalculation is greater in multipolarity: states might think they have the capabil- ity to coerce or conquer another state when, in fact, they do not.40 Presently, there is little reason to believe that tension and strategic posturing will lead to the outbreak of war in the near future. That said, as America’s influence continues to wane, other states have shown their desire to take full advantage of the United States’ inability to control northern affairs. If the United States does lose its hegemony, which many commentators believe is inevitable, there will be at least four dyads in security calculations, with Russia, China and India entering the fray, and two of those states have Arctic borders and a historical legacy of conflict. Power imbalance in the Arctic is already apparent, with only Russia and the United States as great powers, while the other Arctic states are middle or minor powers with no hope of preventing a great power from doing as it pleases. Lastly, miscalculation is evident in the present context, as Sweden and Norway are both arming for possible Russian aggression, though Russia has shown little or no overtly aggressive tendencies towards Nordic nations. Unipolarity was not going to last forever, but as it fades the probability of northern conflict is ever increasing. The shift to hard power strategies, the effects of cli- mate change, and the decline of the United States all speak to the fact that multipolarity can increase levels of tension and mistrust, thus altering the currently stable nature of Arctic affairs.Efforts at Arctic governance through institutional binding or legal claims, as seen in the Arctic Council and UNCLOS, are able at present to mitigate the ongoing and ever increasing security competition in the high north, but as the system changes from unipolarity to multipolarity, constraining state behaviour becomes increasingly difficult. As such, observers must be mindful of the systemic variables at play when explaining and forecasting Arctic politics, as changes to the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.




Diplomacy isn’t enough to prevent conflict- brinkmanship is coming now
Tassinari 9/7 (Fabrizio Tassinari is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, September 7, 2012, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”, http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/)
The geopolitics of the Arctic are stuck in a paradox: The more regional players restate the importance of international cooperation, the more some pundits and policymakers seem to conclude that the Arctic risks descending into competition and even conflict. The world is awakening to the growing strategic importance of the High North. As the Arctic ice melts due to global warming, it opens up new opportunities, from shorter shipping lanes to newly accessible oil and gas reserves; respectively, about 13 percent and 30 percent of the world’s undiscovered resources are in the Arctic, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. These discoveries are usually followed by declarations of the littoral nations to the effect that any potential disagreements over them will be resolved peacefully. However, beneath expressions of goodwill, the Arctic debate is often characterized by a sense of urgency, and even forms of alarmism. In recent years, instances of growing securitization of the Arctic have abounded. Back in 2008, a paper by Javier Solana, then the EU’s foreign policy’s chief, and the European Commission warned about “potential conflict over resources in Polar regions” as they become exploitable due to melting ice. In 2010, NATO’s supreme allied commander in Europe, Adm. James Stavridis, argued that “for now, the disputes in the North have been dealt with peacefully, but climate change could alter the equilibrium.” Then there are actions that speak louder than prepared speeches — from the famous August 2007 expedition that planted a Russian flag on the North Pole’s seabed to the annual summer military exercises carried out by Canada to assert its sovereignty in the North. Although the Russian stunt was most likely aimed at nationalist domestic audiences, some observers view these exercises as the expressions of competing national interests. As the scholar Scott Borgerson ominously put it: “The Arctic powers are fast approaching diplomatic gridlock, and that could eventually lead to the sort of armed brinkmanship that plagues other territories.” The geopolitical constellation in and around the region provides a ready justification for such an assessment. While no-one really imagines the United States, Canada, Norway, and Denmark fighting over the Arctic, some of their politicians have occasionally framed rhetoric in more peppered terms than one might expect. Russia, the fifth Arctic littoral nation, typically treads a fine line between declarations of cooperation and an innate instinct for great-power competition. Add to that the EU, which is seeking to carve its own role, and Asia’s giants, above all China, for which the opening of the Northeast passage may reduce sailing distance with Europe by some 40 percent, and it is not hard to conjure up the prospect of an Arctic race building up.


Presence is also key to solve oil spills
Rufe 12 (Roger T., 5.27.12, The Portland Press Herald, “Oil Spill in Arctic Ocean would tax our capabilities”, [[http://www.pressherald.com/opinion/oil-spill-in-arctic-ocean-would-tax-our-capabilities_2012-05-27.html]])

The second anniversary of the Deepwater Horizon disaster passed with little fanfare last month. But with our government on the brink of allowing the oil industry to explore in America's remote Arctic Ocean this summer, it is worth revisiting some of the lessons learned from the biggest oil spill in the nation's history. Stopping that spill took three months, even though it occurred in the relatively calm waters of the Gulf of Mexico near Coast Guard stations, cleanup equipment and abundant shoreside support. Subsequently, I was asked to chair a panel of federal, state, industry and environmental experts to review our nation's response. Our recommendations are especially important for the Arctic. The Arctic Ocean has one of the harshest climates on Earth. Even in the summer, conditions are volatile, with sudden, violent storms and shifting sea ice. The shoreline is sparsely populated, with no roads connecting the eight main villages to each other or to the rest of Alaska. The nearest major seaport is 1,300 nautical miles away; the nearest Coast Guard air station is 950 air miles. A spill cleanup effort could take weeks to mount and then could suffer endless delays because of foul weather. Although preventing and containing an oil spill in these extreme conditions is the priority, we must also have a plan for response. After the Gulf, we witnessed firsthand that the middle of an emergency is not the time to come up with one. Fully developed and detailed procedures, agreed to in advance, are essential to an effective response. These must address the impact of a spill on environmentally sensitive areas and species, as well as on local economies. This requires a great deal of scientific research along with full and early consultation with indigenous peoples. After all, it is their livelihoods that are at risk. Even then, response plans are only as good as the men and women who will implement them. So it is critical that they provide for an adequate number of trained personnel and proper equipment to deal with a worst-case scenario. If this was a problem in the early going of the Gulf spill, imagine what a challenge it could be in the Arctic. Finally, such contingency planning must be tested in real-life conditions. Although we learned from the Gulf disaster what is needed for an effective spill response plan, we are on the brink of drilling in a much more remote and extreme location without these hard-won lessons in place. Important habitat and key subsistence areas in the U.S. Arctic Ocean have yet to be set off-limits. The U.S. Coast Guard's two heavy-duty icebreakers -- needed for search-and-rescue missions and to support oil spill response and recovery -- have outlived their original life span; the only remaining ice-capable vessel was built for scientific research and is not adequate for heavy icebreaking.

Extinction
WWF 10 (December 1, 2010 “Drilling for Oil in the Arctic: Too Soon, Too Risky” World Wildlife Fund http://www.worldwildlife.org/what/wherewework/arctic/WWFBinaryitem18711.pdf)
Planetary Keystone The Arctic and the subarctic regions surrounding it are important for many reasons. One is their enormous biological diversity: a kaleidoscopic array of land and seascapes supporting millions of migrating birds and charismatic species such as polar bears, walruses, narwhals and sea otters. Economics is another: Alaskan fisheries are among the richest in the world. Their $2.2 billion in annual catch fills the frozen food sections and seafood counters of supermarkets across the nation. However, there is another reason why the Arctic is not just important, but among the most important places on the face of the Earth. A keystone species is generally defined as one whose removal from an ecosystem triggers a cascade of changes affecting other species in that ecosystem. The same can be said of the Arctic in relation to the rest of the world. With feedback mechanisms that affect ocean currents and influence climate patterns, the Arctic functions like a global thermostat. Heat balance, ocean circulation patterns and the carbon cycle are all related to its regulatory and carbon storage functions. Disrupt these functions and we effect far-reaching changes in the conditions under which life has existed on Earth for thousands of years. In the context of climate change, the Arctic is a keystone ecosystem for the entire planet.

Reject their defense- large Alaskan spills overwhelm natural checks and devastate ecosystems
NAE 3 – National Academy of Engineering , American National Academies (“Cumulative Environmental Effects of Oil and Gas Activities on Alaska’s North Slope”, 2003; < http://dels-old.nas.edu/dels/rpt_briefs/north_slope_final.pdf>)
Alaska’s North Slope is underlain by permafrost— a thick layer of earth material that stays frozen year round. The permafrost is covered by a thin active layer that thaws each summer and supports plant growth for a brief period. If permafrost thaws, the ground surface and the structures it supports will settle. To minimize disruption to the ground surface, the North Slope industrial infrastructure is specially built—pipelines are generally elevated rather than buried, and roads and industrial facilities are raised on thick gravel berms. For a variety of reasons, nearly all of the roads, pads, pipelines and other infrastructure ever built are still in place. The environmental effects of such structures on the landscape, water systems, vegetation, and animals are manifest not only at the “footprint” itself (physical area covered by the structure) but also at distances that vary depending on the environmental component being affected. The petroleum industry continues to introduce technological innovations to reduce its footprint, for example, directional drilling and the use of ice roads and pads, drilling platforms, and new kinds of vehicles. For some areas of concern, the committee found no evidence that effects have accumulated. For example, despite widespread concern regarding the damaging effects of frequent oil and saltwater spills on the tundra, most spills to date have been small and have had only local effects. Moreover, damaged areas have recovered before they have been disturbed again. However, a large oil spill in marine waters would likely have substantial accumulating effects on whales and other receptors because current cleanup methods can remove only a small fraction of spilled oil, especially under conditions of broken ice.

===Contention Two- Development=== 
Icebreakers key to arctic economic and resource development
Kilmas 12 (Jacqueline, staff writer, March 24, http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/03/navy-coast-guard-arctic-ice-breaker-032412w/)
As countries like Russia and even China grow their icebreaker fleet, Sen. Mark Begich, D-Alaska, emphasized how critical it is for the U.S. to keep up. “We have to be a part of that,” he said. “It’s important that we not be under-asseted, and have enough equipment to do the work,” which could include oil and gas exploration. Simon Stephenson, the division director of Arctic sciences at the National Science Foundation, emphasized that Arctic research is important to the everyday life of people worldwide, not just in scientific circles. Researchers in the Arctic are looking at melting sea ice and changes in ocean circulation — things that can affect pressure systems and the entire global weather cycle. “By affecting pressure systems, you can affect the upper air circulation which drives our weather — in Europe, in the mid-Atlantic states, in China. All of these areas have seen changes in their weather patterns,” Stephenson said. Access to the Arctic has received broad support in Congress. While the purchase of a new icebreaker has been supported by both Alaska senators, senators including Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., and Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., say the acquisition of a new icebreaker is a national priority. “Icebreakers are of critical importance to America’s national security as well as our economic interests in the Arctic,” Cantwell said in a statement. “According to the Coast Guard’s own comprehensive analysis, we need to invest in at least six new icebreakers to fulfill our nation’s icebreaking missions.” The Coast Guard’s responsibilities in the Arctic include national security, protection of the environment, sustainable economic development of the area, cooperation with other nations with Arctic claims and involvement of the indigenous communities in decisions, according to Lt. Paul Rhynard, the service’s deputy chief of media relations. “The bottom line is that the Coast Guard has the same responsibilities in the Arctic as it does in the Gulf of Mexico or any other U.S. maritime region, yet the Arctic coast provides unique challenges, especially during the winter months, due to extreme conditions of severe weather, sea ice, extended periods of darkness and remoteness of the region,” Rhynard said in a statement.

Icebreakers key to OCS development- accesses methane hydrates, allows OCS mapping, and increases oil supply
Cohen et al 8 (Ariel, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies @ Heritage, PhD @ Tufts U, “The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic”, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2008/10/the-new-cold-war-reviving-the-us-presence-in-the-arctic)
The Arctic is quickly reemerging as a strategic area where vital U.S. interests are at stake. The geopolitical and geo-economic importance of the Arctic region is rising rapidly, and its mineral wealth will likely transform the region into a booming economic frontier in the 21st century. The coasts and continental shelf of the Arctic Ocean are estimated to hold large deposits of oil, natural gas, and methane hydrate (natural gas) clusters along with large quantities of valuable minerals. With the shrinking of the polar ice cap, extended navigation through the Northwest Passage along the northern coast of North America may soon become possible with the help of icebreakers. Similarly, Russia is seeking to make the Northern Sea Route along the northern coast of Eurasia navigable for considerably longer periods of the year. Opening these shorter routes will significantly cut the time and costs of shipping. (See Map 1.) In recent years, Russia has been particularly active in the Arctic, aggressively advancing its interests and claims by using international law and by projecting military might into the region. Despite the Arctic's strategic location and vast resources, the U.S. has largely ignored this region. The United States needs to develop a comprehensive policy for the Arctic, including diplomatic, naval, military, and economic policy components. This should include swiftly mapping U.S. territorial claims to determine their extent and to defend against claims by other countries. With oil and gas prices recently at historic highs in a tight supply and demand environment, the rich hydrocarbon resources in the Arctic may bring some relief to consumers. These resources, especially the hydrocarbons, also have the potential to significantly enhance the economy and the energy security of North America and the world. The Arctic's Vast Untapped Resources The U.S. Geological Survey estimates that the Arctic might hold as much as 90 billion barrels (13 percent) of the world's undiscovered oil reserves and 47.3 trillion cubic meters (tcm) (30 percent) of the world's undiscovered natural gas. At current consumption rates and assuming a 50 percent utilization rate of reserves, this is enough oil to meet global demand for 1.4 years and U.S. demand for six years. Arctic natural gas reserves may equal Russia's proven reserves, the world's largest.[1] (See Table 1.) The Russian Ministry of Natural Resources estimates that the underwater Arctic region claimed by Russia could hold as much as 586 billion barrels of unproven oil reserves.[2] The ministry estimates that proven oil deposits "in the Russian area of water proper" in the Barents, Pechora, Kara, East Siberian, Chukchi, and Laptev Seas could reach 418 million tons (3 billion barrels) and proven gas reserves could reach 7.7 tcm. Unexplored reserves could total 9.24 billion tons (67.7 billion barrels) of oil and 88.3 tcm of natural gas.[3] Overall, Russia estimates that these areas have up to 10 trillion tons of hydrocarbon deposits, the equivalent of 73 trillion barrels of oil.[4] In addition to oil and gas, the Arctic seabed may contain significant deposits of valuable metals and precious stones, such as gold, silver, copper, iron, lead, manganese, nickel, platinum, tin, zinc, and diamonds. The rise of China, India, and other developing countries has increased global demand for these commodities.[5] Alaska 's North Slope. Alaska's North Slope contributes significantly to U.S. oil production and could supply more. The North Slope is the region of Alaska from the Canadian border on the east to the Chukchi Sea Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) on the west. It includes the Chukchi Sea OCS, the Beaufort Sea OCS, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), the Central Arctic (the region between the Colville and Canning Rivers), and the National Petroleum Reserve, Alaska.[6] (See Map 2.) Between 1977 and 2004, the Prudhoe Bay oil field on the North Slope produced more than 15 billion barrels of oil. By 1988, Prudhoe Bay was accounting for more than 25 percent of U.S. crude oil production. However, Prudhoe Bay oil field is currently in steep decline.[7] A U.S. Department of Energy report found that the North Slope has potentially 36 billion barrels of oil and 3.8 tcm of natural gas, close to Nigeria's proven reserves. The report also estimates that the Chukchi Sea OCS and the Beaufort Sea OCS hold combined energy reserves of 14 billion barrels of oil and about 2 tcm of natural gas.[8] Furthermore, these reserves are even more attractive because their development is less limited by federal, state, and local legislation, as is the case with ANWR, and are thus more accessible to drilling.[9] To enhance U.S. energy security, America should expand domestic oil production. America remains the only oil-producing nation on earth that has placed a significant amount of its reserves out of reach.[10] Until recently, potentially large U.S. natural gas deposits have been off limits.[11] For instance, ANWR holds potential reserves of about 10 billion barrels of petroleum.[12] Such reserves could lead to an additional 1 million barrels per day in domestic production, which could be transported south through the Trans-Alaska Pipeline, which has a spare capacity of 1 million barrels per day. An additional 1 million barrels per day would save the U.S. $123 billion in petroleum imports, create $7.7 billion in new economic activity, and generate 128,000 new jobs.[13] Methane Hydrates. Large methane hydrate deposits are located on the deep seabed of the Arctic Ocean.[14] Methane hydrates are a solid form of natural gas and have 3,000 times the concentration of methane found in the atmosphere.[15] While no technology currently exists to mine methane clusters, the capability appears to be just over the horizon. The U.S. and Japan have agreed to cooperate in researching and developing commercial methane hydrate processing with the goal of selling gas from methane hydrates by 2018.[16] The South Korean Ministry of Energy has also announced that it will work with the U.S. in exploring and developing methane hydrate deposits to develop a commercially viable energy source. Seoul is also hoping to participate in the U.S.-sponsored Alaska North Slope project in 2009 to test the viability of using methane hydrates as an energy source.[17] Global Oil Supply and the Demand "Crunch." Arctic oil and gas resources have become increasingly important given the tight energy market. Escalating demand for energy in 2001–2008, stagnating supply, political instability, growing resource nationalism, terrorism, and ethnic conflict have combined into a perfect storm of a global supply and demand crunch.[18] This crunch has been reflected in high oil prices ($147 per barrel in July). While oil prices have since retreated to less than $70 per barrel due to the financial crisis, global energy markets are expected to remain tight for the long-term as the fundamentals remain largely the same (i.e., rising demand in emerging markets and flattening supply). While these trends bode ill for energy security, the resources in the Arctic offer a glimmer of hope. U.S. Energy Supplies. Developing oil deposits in the Arctic is strategically important because the region is not beset by religious, ethnic, or social strife and resource nationalism that plague oil-producing countries in the Middle East, West Africa, and Latin America. One way to reduce U.S. dependency on foreign oil is to develop Arctic oil fields. Such development would lower prices in the international oil market, even after accounting for the time lag for bringing new oil fields online. Moreover, the rich oil and gas deposits in Alaska's North Slope and in the U.S. offshore Arctic territories could further increase U.S. energy supply by guaranteeing availability of additional domestic energy supplies in the time of a national emergency.[19] Liquefied Natural Gas. U.S. demand for natural gas is growing because generating electric power using natural gas is cleaner and more efficient than with coal or oil. Natural gas production in the U.S. and Canada has not kept pace with the rising demand and is "flattening out" or declining.[20] In 2004, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan saw increased imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) as a solution, or "price-pressure safety valve," to reduce prices and fill the gap from diminishing North American gas supply.[21] However, LNG imports have so far proven expensive in meeting growing demand. The price of natural gas abroad is nearly double the price in the U.S., so LNG flows to other buyers who are willing to pay higher prices, such as in Japan. As Royal Dutch Shell's executive director of gas and power Linda Cook suggested, U.S. domestic production of natural gas could run 15–20 billion cubic feet per day below domestic demand by 2025.[22] However, augmented LNG production from the Arctic could help to meet future demand and to reduce gas prices in the domestic market, which would benefit industry and consumers. Opening the Arctic Outer Continental Shelf. In a timely move prompted by the current demand, the Mineral Management Service in the U.S. Department of the Interior has started offering oil and gas lease sales for drilling rights in the Outer Continental Shelf in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas. For example, the Chukchi Sea Lease Sale in February 2008 was the first OCS lease sale in 17 years.[23] International corporations are now flocking to the High North. BP is developing a drilling project known as Liberty in the OCS. In February 2008, Royal Dutch Shell paid $2.1 billion for 275 lease blocks in the Chukchi Sea Lease Sale 193. At the February 2008 lease sale, Norway's StatoilHydro and Italy's ENI were the high bidders on a number of blocks. In total, seven companies participated in the Chukchi Sea Lease Sale, which spanned an area covering 5,354 blocks.[24] In the future, these and other projects on the Arctic Outer Continental Shelf could deliver gas to the lower 48 states through the Trans-Alaska Pipeline and the Canadian Mackenzie Valley Pipeline. U.S. Claims in the Arctic The U.S. relies on its sovereign power and diplomacy when pursuing territorial claims in the Arctic. The United States is not a party to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea Treaty (LOST) and therefore is not bound by any procedures and determinations concluded through LOST instruments. Instead, the U.S. is pursuing its claims "as an independent, sovereign nation," relying in part on Harry S. Truman's Presidential Proclamation No. 2667, which declares that any hydrocarbon or other resources discovered beneath the U.S. continental shelf are the property of the United States.[25] The U.S. can defend its rights and claims through bilateral negotiations and in the multilateral venues such as through the Arctic Ocean Conference in May 2008, which met in Ilulissat, Greenland. Many have argued, including the Bush Administration, that the U.S. will not have leverage or a "seat at the table" to pursue or defend its Arctic claims on condition that the U.S. is not a party to LOST. However, U.S. attendance at the conference in Ilulissat significantly weakened this argument. Even though the U.S. is not a LOST party, other Arctic nations "are unable to assert credible claims on U.S. territory in the Arctic or anywhere else in the world" because President Truman already secured U.S. rights to Arctic resources with his proclamation.[26] Yet to protect its rights, the U.S. needs to know how far its claims stretch into the Arctic Ocean. The U.S. has been mapping the bottom of the Arctic Ocean and the Outer Continental Shelf since 2003.[27] Mapping is essential to determining the extent of the U.S. OCS and determining whether the U.S. has any legitimate claims to territory beyond its 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone. Despite ongoing U.S. efforts to chart the bottom of the Arctic Ocean, mapping efforts have been inadequate. According to a National Research Council report in 2007, the U.S. continental shelf and the Northwest Passage have not yet been entirely mapped.[28] Mapping is also important for disputing any conflicting claims by other Arctic nations. For example, the U.S. and Canada have likely claimed some of the same parts of the continental shelf.[29] Mapping data will also help to determine whether Russian claims conflict with U.S. and Canadian claims. The expedition undertaken by the icebreaker USCGC Healy in the Chukchi Sea focused on surveying an area 400 to 600 miles north of Alaska and cost about $1.2 million—a pittance compared to the billions of dollars of Arctic natural resources that are at stake. The survey indicated that the foot or lowest part of the Alaskan continental shelf stretches more than 100 miles beyond what was previously thought, thus expanding the U.S. claim.[30] The U.S. requires a modern flotilla of icebreakers to conduct mapping and to sustain U.S. claims. The U.S. currently has only three icebreakers that belong to the Coast Guard, of which only the Healy (commissioned in 2000) is relatively new. The other two icebreakers, while heavier than the Healy and thus capable of breaking through thicker ice, are at the end of their designed service life after operating for about 30 years. Yet even if the U.S. begins now, it will be eight to 10 years before a new icebreaker can enter service, and no money has been allocated to build a new-generation heavy icebreaker.[31]



Scenario one is methane:
Arctic methane burst is inevitable- extraction is key
Light 12 (Malcolm P.R. Light, Center for Polar Observation and Modeling, University of London, polar climate modeling and methane hydrates in the permafrost and submarine Arctic, “Charting Mankind’s Arctic Methane Emission Exponential Expressway to Total Extinction in the Next 50 Years,” Arctic News, August 10, 2012, http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/08/charting-mankinds-expressway-to-extinction.html)
If left alone the subsea Arctic methane hydrates will explosively destabilize on their own due to global warming and produce a massive Arctic wide methane “blowout” that will lead to humanity’s total extinction, probably before the middle of this century (Light 2012 a, b and c). AIRS atmospheric methane concentration data between 2008 and 2012 (Yurganov 2012) show that the Arctic has already entered the early stages of a subsea methane “blowout” so we need to step in as soon as we can (e.g. 2015) to prevent it escalating any further (Light 2012c). The Arctic Natural Gas Extraction, Liquefaction & Sales (ANGELS) Proposal aims to reduce the threat of large, abrupt releases of methane in the Arctic, by extracting methane from Arctic methane hydrates prone to destabilization (Light, 2012c). After the Arctic sea ice has gone (probably around 2015) we propose that a large consortium of oil and gas companies/governments set up drilling platforms near the regions of maximum subsea methane emissions and drill a whole series of shallow directional production drill holes into the subsea subpermafrost “free methane” reservoir in order to depressurize it in a controlled manner (Light 2012c). This methane will be produced to the surface, liquefied, stored and transported on LNG tankers as a “green energy” source to all nations, totally replacing oil and coal as the major energy source (Light 2012c). The subsea methane reserves are so large that they can supply the entire earth’s energy needs for several hundreds of years (Light 2012c). By sufficiently depressurizing the Arctic subsea subpermafrost methane it will be possible to draw down Arctic ocean water through the old eruption sites and fracture systems and destabilize the methane hydrates in a controlled way thus shutting down the entire Arctic subsea methane blowout (Light 2012c).

Methane burst causes extinction- it’s comparatively worse than nuke war
Ryskin ‘3- Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering (Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003,[[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]])

METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION A liquid subject to gravity and completely or partially saturated with dissolved gas is, thermodynamically, in a metastable state. Consider for clarity the case when the concentration of the dissolved gas is only slightly below saturation throughout, and thus increases downward in accordance with Henry’s law. Then locally there is no tendency for the dissolved gas to exsolve (to form bubbles), in spite of the fact that nuclei are abundant in seawater. (Exsolution would lead to a slight increase in free energy: below saturation, the chemical potential of the gas species is lower in solution than in the free gas phase.) At the same time, the free energy of the system as a whole would be greatly reduced if most of the dissolved gas were to somehow escape from solution and collect above the liquid. (This free energy reduction is due to the fast decrease of the chemical potential of gas with a drop in pressure.) Thus, the system is in a metastable state, albeit an unusual one. Strictly speaking, this state is not an equilibrium one even locally: the increase of the solute concentration with depth causes a diffusion ﬂux directed upward, which, given sufﬁcient time, could bring the system into the above state of minimum free energy. However, the continuous supply of methane by the rising bubbles from the seaﬂoor ensures that the concentration proﬁle will remain nonuniform, slowly approaching the saturation one. Even if that supply were to cease, the diffusion time scales are so long that this path toward the global energy minimum can be ignored. A very fast transition from this metastable state can be triggered by disturbances that displace ﬂuid a ﬁnite distance in the vertical direction. Such disturbances may result from an earthquake, a seaﬂoor volcano, convection currents due to geothermal heating, or an internal gravity wave. Consider a parcel of ﬂuid that is displaced upward, and is now subject to lower hydrostatic pressure, to which corresponds a lower solubility value. As a result, the ﬂuid in the parcel is now supersaturated with the dissolved gas, which must begin to exsolve, forming tiny gas bubbles. (If the ﬂuid in its original position was only partially saturated, exsolution will begin after the parcel has risen through some signiﬁcant distance, so in this case the initial disturbance must be sufﬁciently large.) The volume of the ascending parcel of ﬂuid increases due to the formation of bubbles, making it more buoyant and accelerating its rise; this leads to further reduction in the ambient pressure, further exsolution of gas, and further increase in the volume of the parcel. This self-accelerating motion entrains the surrounding ﬂuid; exsolution of the gas in the latter reinforces the motion. The result is a violent eruption (Kling et al., 1987; Zhang, 1996). From the initial eruption site, hydrodynamic disturbances propagate in all directions (via turbulent entrainment and/or internal gravity waves), triggering eruptions at other sites. Similarly to transitions from other metastable states (e.g., boiling of a superheated liquid), the eruption should spread quickly throughout the region of the ocean where the water column is saturated, or partially saturated, with gas. In spite of the low solubility of methane in seawater, the total possible increase in the buoyancy of the parcel can be large. Consider a parcel that started its rise at 4 km depth, where solubility of methane is ;4.3 3 1023 . Then, if the parcel had a volume of 18 cm3 (1 mol of water) and was saturated with methane, it contained 4.3 3 1023 mol of dissolved methane. By the time this parcel has risen to the surface, essentially all the methane in the parcel has exsolved (solubility is ;2 3 1025 at the surface). At the surface conditions (T ø 25 8C, P 5 1 bar), 1 mol of any gas occupies 25 3 10 3 cm3 , so the total volume of methane in the parcel is ;108 cm3 , and the volume of the parcel, which now contains a mist of water droplets in gaseous methane, is 126 cm3 . That is, the volume of the parcel has increased by a factor of seven. Concurrent exsolution of other dissolved gases (e.g., carbon dioxide CO2 , hydrogen sulﬁde H2 S) will add to the effect. A rather similar process is responsible for the most violent, explosive volcanic eruptions (called Plinian), such as eruptions of Mount Vesuvius in A.D. 79 or Mount St. Helens in 1980. These eruptions are driven by exsolution of gases (primarily water vapor) dissolved in the liquid magma. In Lake Nyos (Cameroon), CO2 of magmatic origin enters the water column from the bottom, at a depth of ;200 m. In 1986, the lake erupted, creating a gas-water fountain ;120 m in height (Zhang, 1996), and releasing a lethal cloud of CO2 . A water surge washed up the shore to a height of ;25 m. The eruption continued for several hours (Kling et al., 1987). OCEANIC ERUPTION AS A CAUSE OF MASS EXTINCTION The consequences of a methane-driven oceanic eruption for marine and terrestrial life are likely to be catastrophic. Figuratively speaking, the erupting region ‘‘boils over,’’ ejecting a large amount of methane and other gases (e.g., CO2 , H2 S) into the atmosphere, and ﬂooding large areas of land. Whereas pure methane is lighter than air, methane loaded with water droplets is much heavier, and thus spreads over the land, mixing with air in the process (and losing water as rain). The air methane mixture is explosive at methane concentrations between 5% and 15%; as such mixtures form in different locations near the ground and are ignited by lightning, explosions 2 and conﬂagrations destroy most of the terrestrial life, and also produce great amounts of smoke and of carbon dioxide. Firestorms carry smoke and dust into the upper atmosphere, where they may remain for several years (Turco et al., 1991); the resulting darkness and global cooling may provide an additional kill mechanism. Conversely, carbon dioxide and the remaining methane create the greenhouse effect, which may lead to global warming. The outcome of the competition between the cooling and the warming tendencies is difﬁcult to predict (Turco et al., 1991; Pierrehumbert, 2002). Upon release of a signiﬁcant portion of the dissolved methane, the ocean settles down, and the entire sequence of events (i.e., development of anoxia, accumulation of dissolved methane, the metastable state, eruption) begins anew. No external cause is required to bring about a methane-driven eruption—its mechanism is self-contained, and implies that eruptions are likely to occur repeatedly at the same location. Because methane is isotopically light, its fast release must result in a negative carbon isotope excursion in the geological record. Knowing the magnitude of the excursion, one can estimate the amount of methane that could have produced it. Such calculations (prompted by the methane-hydrate-dissociation model, but equally applicable here) have been performed for several global events in the geological record; the results range from ;10 18 to 10 19 g of released methane (e.g., Katz et al., 1999; Kennedy et al., 2001; de Wit et al., 2002). These are very large amounts: the total carbon content of today’s terrestrial biomass is ;2 3 10 18 g. Nevertheless, relatively small regions of the deep ocean could contain such amounts of dissolved methane; e.g., the Black Sea alone (volume ;0.4 3 1023 of the ocean total; maximum depth only 2.2 km) could hold, at saturation, ;0.5 3 10 18 g. A similar region of the deep ocean could contain much more (the amount grows quadratically with depth 3 ). Released in a geological instant (weeks, perhaps), 10 18 to 10 19 g of methane could destroy the terrestrial life almost entirely. Combustion and explosion of 0.75 3 10 19 g of methane would liberate energy equivalent to 10 8 Mt of TNT, ;10,000 times greater than the world’s stockpile of nuclear weapons, implicated in the nuclearwinter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).


Scenario two is the economy:

Collapse coming now, all recovery talk is an illusion
Lendman 2/1 (Stephen- BA from Harvard, researcher at the Centre for Research on Globalization, citing John Williams- BA in economics at Darthmouth and respected economist, and Marc Faber- Market Analyst, 2013, “The US Economy in Crisis: Recovery is an Illusion”, http://www.globalresearch.ca/the-us-economy-in-crisis-recovery-is-an-illusion/5321394)
Headlines flashed warning signs. Commentaries downplayed them. A Wall Street Journal editorial headlined “As Contractions Go….”¶ US Q IV GDP shrank, “but not to worry. The report is better than it sounds, the stock market is rocking, and (the Fed will) keep both feet pressed firmly on the monetary accelerator.”¶ The Financial Times headlined “US outlook still clear despite shower,” saying:¶ Predicting recession “based on (-0.1% GDP decline) “is a bit like expecting rain because somebody threw a bucket of water out the window.”¶ The wildcard is “if Congress decides to dump water out the window every month, via across-the-board ‘sequester’ cuts” expected soon.¶ According to Bloomberg, “R-Word For US Economy in 2013 is Rebound Not Recession.”¶ According to JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America, and Morgan Stanley economists, America’s economy “will bounce back in (Q I) after plunging defense spending and dwindling inventory growth” hurt Q IV.¶ Not according to economist John Williams. Recovery is illusory, he says. It’s fake. Phony government numbers conceal weakness. Growth hasn’t occurred since 2006/2007.¶ Earlier Williams said:¶ “Indeed, the ‘recovery’ is an illusion that has been created as a direct result of methodological changes in government inflation reporting of recent decades.”¶ They “resulted in an artificial lowering of official rates of inflation. The faux growth problem is in the use of understated inflation estimates in deflating a number of economic series.”¶ “Major economic series that have no underlying pricing base – such as housing starts, payroll employment and consumer confidence – correspondingly do not require inflation adjustment to put them on a consistent theoretical basis with the concept of real (inflation-adjusted) GDP.”¶ “Those series confirm a history of business activity in recent years that shows a plunge in the economy from 2006/2007 into late-2008/mid-2009, followed by a period of protracted, low-level stagnation, or bottom-bouncing, instead of ‘recovery.’ ”¶ Williams expects double-dip recession in 2013. It likely began in 2012 Q II or III, he believes.¶ Last August, market analyst Marc Faber rated odds for global recession at 100%. Little or nothing ahead looks promising. Corporate profits will disappoint.¶ The Fed can do so much and no more. Money printing has limits. It’s not magic. On January 31, Faber repeated earlier warnings.¶ “When you print money,” he said, it “doesn’t flow evenly into an economy. It flows to some people or to sectors first, and in this case, it flowed into equities, and until about five months ago into bonds.”¶ “I believe that markets will punish central banks at some state through an accident.”¶ Stocks could hit bubble levels and pop. Rising interest rates could collapse bonds.¶ “For the first time in four years, since the lows in March 2009, I love this market because the higher it goes, the more likely we will have a nice crash, a big time crash.”¶ He thinks weak global growth and disappointing corporate profits will trigger trouble.¶ Fed governors are cautious. On January 3, FOMC minutes said:¶ “With regard to the possible costs and risks of purchases, a number of participants expressed the concern that additional purchases could complicate the Committee’s efforts to eventually withdraw monetary policy accommodation, for example, by potentially causing inflation expectations to rise or by impairing the future implementation of monetary policy.”¶ “Participants also discussed the implications of continued asset purchases for the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. Depending on the path for the balance sheet and interest rates, the Federal Reserve’s net income and its remittances to the Treasury could be significantly affected during the period of policy normalization.”¶ “Participants noted that the Committee would need to continue to assess whether large purchases were having adverse effects on market functioning and financial stability.” ”¶ “They expressed a range of views on the appropriate pace of purchases, both now and as the outlook evolved. It was agreed that both the efficacy and the costs would need to be carefully monitored and taken into account in determining the size, pace, and composition of asset purchases.”¶ Governors are conflicted. They have reason to worry. They’re questioning excessive longterm money printing benefits. Artificial schemes don’t work. They cause more harm than good.¶ Eventually they end. What can’t go on forever won’t. They’ll have to decide when. Economic and market consequences will follow.¶ Newly released Q IV GDP data showed growth contracted 0.1%. Sequestered deficit cutting suggests further declines. Consumer confidence is low for good reason. Europe, China, Japan, and other major world economies show weakness.¶ Is America on track for double dip trouble? In Q IV, government and business inventory spending declined. Auto sales alone drove consumer spending gains. Deep discounts, near zero interest rates, and Hurricane Sandy affected purchases stimulated sales.¶ Exports were down. Weak global manufacturing and trade affected them. Healthcare spending slowed noticeably. US economic growth ground to a halt. Doing so suggests weakness going forward.¶ Artificial stimulus works only so long. Q III included record defense spending. It accounted for over a third of GDP growth. It followed two years of reduced government spending.¶ Q III data were released days before November elections. Good news benefited Obama.¶ True Q III GDP growth was misreported. It wasn’t 3%. When accurately adjusted, it was 1 – 1.5%. It’s been that way for two years. Day of reckoning signs appeared in Q IV.¶ Multiple quantitative easing rounds barely held economic growth above water. Money printing madness substituted for stimulative growth. Central bank intervention repeated what hasn’t before worked.¶ European economies are troubled. America shows weakness. Force-fed austerity doesn’t work. Decline replaces prosperity. Living standards deteriorate. Households have less to spend.¶ Production and consumption suffer. So does the real economy. Financial war helps speculators alone benefit. Eventually expect systemic crisis. It could take months or years to arrive.¶ Market manipulation delays day of reckoning time. It can’t prevent it. Q IV GDP suggests 2013 weakness. Headwinds may be stiffer than expected.¶ Payroll tax increases cuts $100 billion from GDP. It does so when stimulus is needed. Consumer sentiment and spending are weak.¶ Expect sequestered/largely discretionary $1.2 trillion cuts by end of March. Stiff 10 – 20% health insurance premium hikes impact healthcare spending.¶ Business spending spiked in Q IV. It did so ahead of expected tax law changes. Expect it to slow in Q I. Manufacturing is weak. Housing remains troubled. So is America’s economy. Odds favor double-dip trouble.¶ Five years after economic collapse, virtually zero growth was achieved. Wall Street was bailed out. Main Street was sold out. Ellen Brown does some of the best financial writing.¶ Last September, she said America’s economy needs “a good dose of ‘aggregate demand.’ ” It needs money put in people’s pockets.¶ QE for Wall Street won’t jumpstart the economy. It won’t “reduce unemployment.” It’s stuck at 23%. It’s the highest since Great Depression levels.¶ QE puts no “money in the pockets of consumers.” It doesn’t “reflate the money supply.”¶ “(S)ignificantly lower interest rates for homeowners” aren’t achieved. Other consumer purchases don’t benefit.¶ QE helps bankers, other speculators and investors. Ordinary people are harmed. Economic growth is taxed. It’s monetary poison. It’s harming the dollar.¶ Finance is a new form of warfare. Money printing madness is based on the wrong-headed notion that Fed-supplied liquidity encourages bank lending to stimulate growth.¶ Despite multi-trillions of dollars in free zero interest rate money, bank lending to small/medium sized businesses and households is too little to help.¶ No loans mean no investment, no hiring, and no money in people’s pockets. At the same time, US corporate giants hoard enormous amounts of cash. Estimates range up to $5 trillion.¶ Fed reports downplay what’s held. Their data include only domestic cash reserves, Treasuries, other bonds, and bank accounts.¶ Foreign holdings aren’t included. Global trillions aren’t invested. They’re used for salaries, huge bonuses, dividends, stock buybacks, and speculation.¶ At the same time, inflation-adjusted consumer disposable income declined for decades. Post-9/11, it’s been especially hard hit.¶ Spending growth is largely credit driven. Insufficient income retards it. Households are debt-entrapped. Eventually they’ll be unable to assume more.¶ Progressive Radio News Hour regular Jack Rasmus discusses America’s “epic recession.” For five years, its economy “bumped along the bottom.” Conditions ahead look worse, not better.¶ Fed gamesmanship puts international finance at risk. Economies haven’t been healed. They’ve been wrecked. QE is a zero sum game. It’s financial terrorism.

Development generates massive economic benefits---job growth, deficit reduction and ripple effect in the short-term
Mills 12 Mark, member of the advisory council of the McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science at Northwestern University and serves on the board of directors of the Marshall Institute, 7/9, “Could the United States Become the World’s Energy-Export Powerhouse?”, [[http://www.manhattan-institute.org/pdf/press_release_pgi_01.pdf]]
Unleashing 20 billion barrels of cumulative oil from Alaska’s ANWR and some currently off-limits regions of the outer continental shelf would bring over $1 trillion of net benefits to the U.S. economy. 36 In general, both history and recent analyses show that for every billion barrels of oil produced (or oil-equivalent in natural gas, and similar range for coal), there are about $75 billion in broad economic benefits. 37 A number of recent studies have explored the implications of the new hydrocarbon trajectory, should it continue unimpeded: o Citi’s analysis concludes that the oil and gas extraction sector could add as many as 3.6 million net new jobs by 2020 (for North America, both direct and indirect) and shrink the deficit by 60 percent. 38 o Wood Mackenzie 39 finds in its scenario report for the American Petroleum Institute a cumulative $800 billion in increased revenues to governments (federal, state, local) and another 1.5 million U.S. jobs, direct and indirect, over the coming two decades. o IHS Global Insight, 40 in its analysis for America’s Natural Gas Alliance, estimates that the shale gas industry alone will add more than 1 million jobs across the U.S. economy over the coming two decades and provide over $900 billion in cumulative additional federal, state, and local government tax revenues ($465 federal, $460 state and local). While there are differences in assumptions and boundaries among these and similar analyses, the order-of magnitude benefits are similar and similarly impressive: millions of jobs and hundreds of billions in revenues to government coffers. None of the above accounts for the economic contributions thus far from coal, nor does it countenance expanding coal production, North America’s third great hydrocarbon resource. Some 600,000 jobs are associated with the coal industry, a fuel that already contributes some $60 billion annually to the U.S. economy, not the least of which is the increasingly vital role of low-cost electricity in an information centric economy. 41 The U.S. uses about three BBOE of coal per year, while the world consumes about 20 BBOE of coal annually. Expanding coal exports by an amount comparable with the increase in the oil and gas sectors would add several hundred thousand more jobs and several hundred billion more dollars in cumulative tax receipts. 42 While expanding hydrocarbon production will require significant investment, it will be supplied by the private sector, generating benefits to the public sector, to private citizens, and to businesses. These kinds of benefits, which accrue without cost to taxpayers, come at a particularly important time, considering the current state of persistent unemployment and underemployment, the losses in net worth for many citizens, and the budget deficits in most states and the federal government. Economic benefits from expanding hydrocarbon production will be felt widely given the structural and geographic diversity of hydrocarbon resources and the associated industries. In contrast to other parts of the world, benefits here won’t flow to a handful of oligarchs but will involve thousands of businesses and ripple broadly throughout the economy. Expanding hydrocarbon production may be the single most important opportunity for near-term economic growth in North America and a beneficial resetting of energy geopolitics.
US decline causes nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9 (Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]
Increased Potential for Global Conflict)
Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks_and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.
We have strong statistical support
Royal 10 Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (see also Gilpin, 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that ‘future expectation of trade’ is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002, p. 89)Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. ‘Diversionary theory’ suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a ‘rally around the flag’ effect. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995), and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

===Contention Three- Solvency=== 
No icebreaker policy now- Coast Guard is not receiving enough money
Beilinson 12 (Jerry, 2012, deputy editor of popular mechanics, and former senior editor of National Geographic Adventure, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now”, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195]], MANCHESTER)
When politicians argue over President Obama’s new 2013 budget proposal, one thing that should escape criticism is the $8 million to be spent on designing a new polar-class icebreaker for the Coast Guard. The hard part will follow: It will cost nearly $1 billion to actually build the ship, and it’s $1 billion that Congress needs to find. The United States is the world’s colossus when it comes to every other kind of military hardware, yet it has just one functioning icebreaker: the medium-strength USCGC Healy, which is primarily used for research. The ship made headlines recently for breaking open a route to the Alaskan town of Nome to aid in the delivery of much-needed fuel. It was a great mission, but it may have left an overly upbeat impression of American capabilities. The country also owns two heavy-duty icebreakers: One of the aging vessels is being decommissioned, and the other is being refurbished after years of disuse. That’s not good enough. While it’s encouraging to finally see some progress being made in the current budget proposal, the problem is far from solved—and the United States has national interests in icy waters. Here are three things to know about America’s icebreaking capabilities. 1. America’s huge northern coast is barely patrolled. Coast Guard cutters are stationed in the Bering Sea, and C-130s take infrequent flights over American waters beyond the North Slope. However, the United States does not have what you’d call a persistent maritime presence in the Arctic, a region with increasing geopolitical importance. Most of the time, there are no patrol ships or planes up there at all. It’s ironic, but the warming Arctic has actually increased demand for icebreakers. The Coast Guard needs more of the ships to prepare for search-and-rescue missions, oil-spill response (offshore drilling by Shell could commence in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas this summer), law enforcement, and plain old flag-waving in northern waters. These ships are also needed for science. The United States is a leader in oceanography, climate investigations, and all kinds of polar studies, thanks partly to the National Science Foundation’s first-rate support of research. (In fact, the NSF has overseen the budget for maintaining icebreakers since 2006; the proposed budget properly puts that responsibility back with the military.) But with just one or two working icebreakers, there’s no way the NSF and Coast Guard can accomplish all they need to. When the Healy churned its way to Alaska to help deliver fuel, its maintenance schedule was thrown off. As a result, scientific projects may have to be delayed this summer. To deliver supplies to America’s McMurdo Station in Antarctica each year, the NSF has been relying on foreign-flagged vessels. As PM reported last July, Sweden’s move to pull its icebreaker Oden off the McMurdo job put the entire 2011–2012 research season in jeopardy. NSF scrambled and eventually was able to commission a Russian vessel. This feels a lot like the situation in space: With the retirement of the space shuttle, the United States can’t fly astronauts to the International Space Station without a lift from Russian rockets. Now, it appears, the country can’t supply its main Antarctic base without Russian help, either. Building up America’s fleet of icebreakers will resolve such situations while allowing the Coast Guard to react to a changing world. 2. The U.S. is falling behind. China, a country with no Arctic coast, is building icebreakers—and that should get America’s attention. It’s one thing for Russia, with the world’s longest Arctic coastline, to operate a couple dozen of the ships. (Fortunately, they’re available for leasing, at a price.) It’s understandable, maybe, for Finland, Sweden, and Canada to surpass the United States in this area. But why is China constructing an 8000-ton vessel capable of breaking through 4.5 ft of ice at a steady clip, to join the XueLong, its existing ice-class vessel? In fact, China’s interest is unsurprising given its role as a world economic power. Commercial ships are already traversing the Northern Sea Route above Russia, carrying goods between Europe and East Asia. Often, icebreakers go along as insurance against bad conditions. And soon, ships will start carrying liquefied natural gas from Norway along the route. Traffic through the Northwest Passage above Canada is building more slowly, and talk of the Arctic sea routes competing with the Suez Canal is overblown. Nevertheless, the Bering Strait between Alaska and Russia is already getting crowded. According to Rear Adm. Thomas P. Ostebo, who commands the U.S. Coast Guard in Alaska, about 1000 vessel transits take place in the Strait each summer. That’s America’s backyard.




Even if it takes a while to build new icebreakers, we could lease them in the short term for surge capabilities
Rausnitz 8/12 (Zach Rausnitz- associate editor for the Government Groups at FierceMarkets- citing Admiral Robert Papp- Top service official, responsible for all world-wide Coast Guard activities, and oversees 42,000 active duty military and 8,000 civilian full-time employees; 8,000 reserve military part-time employees; and 30,000 civilian auxiliary volunteers, August 8 2012, “Papp: The Coast Guard can't lease all its icebreakers”, http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/papp-coast-guard-cant-lease-all-its-icebreakers/2012-08-09)
Leasing icebreakers from the private sector for surge capability could be useful, but the Coast Guard should have one or two icebreakers of its own, Commandant Adm. Robert Papp said Aug. 6. The Coast Guard tends to build and operate ships for more than 30 years. A lease over that time period would cost much more than owning the ships from the start, Papp said at a field hearing the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on homeland security held in Kodiak, Alaska. Papp said the Coast Guard has done a "rudimentary" business case analysis of leased icebreakers. An icebreaker needed for only a few years could make financial sense because maintenance costs wouldn't be as much of a concern, he said. The legal implications of leasing are unclear, though. A leased icebreaker might not be usable for law enforcement or defense operations where a sovereign military vessel is needed, Papp said. The current fleet of icebreakers is in "woeful condition," Papp said. USCGC Healy is 12 years old and in good shape. But Papp noted that the other two icebreakers, USCGC Polar Star and USCGC Polar Sea, are in "dreadful condition" and well past their service. Polar Star is undergoing refurbishment and should resume operations in 2013. Papp said he he expects Polar Star and Healy to last another decade until the Coast Guard can build a new icebreaker, which he estimated will cost between $800 million and $1 billion. The Coast Guard is preparing for new responsibilities in the Arctic. In July, it launched an unprecedented 4-month service deployment to the Arctic, an effort it calls Arctic Shield 2012. Global warming has caused once-impassable portions of the Arctic Ocean to be open to increased shipping traffic. Papp compared the situation to that of a city that acquires new land but doesn't increase its police and fire departments. The Coast Guard now has responsibilities in places where no human activity previously took place, he said.

Your timeframe evidence doesn’t assume the aff- it would take two years tops for development
RT Business 12
(RT Business “Russia to build the world’s biggest icebreaker” July 3, 2012 [[http://rt.com/business/news/russia-icebreaker-arctic-ice-293/]] accessed on 7/3/12 SA
The world's biggest atomic icebreaker will cost Russia an estimated $1.1 billion, with construction to start in 2013. The mega-ton ship will be capable of breaking 4 meters thick ice to help explore the Arctic shelf. Atomflot – a sister company of Rosatom – will build the ice breaking ship, and hopes to have it ready to sail in 2015. “This icebreaker will clear the way for other vessels in Russia’s Arctic as well as tag them along the Yenisei and Ob rivers”, Atomflot told Izvestya newspaper. The new Icebreaker will be granted the highest ice class – 9, meaning the ship will be able to break ice thicker than 4 meters in the Arctic area all year round.




Icebreaker missions are inevitable – Russia would do them if we didn’t which non-uniques your turns
Ariel Cohen 11, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security @ the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, and Anton Altman, Foundation Research Volunteer, 6-18-11, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten” Heritage Foundation, [[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. online
The Arctic is becoming the “wild west” of the 21st century, and the Russians have been quick to claim a good part of it as their birthright. The Russian state is after 380,000 square miles of this final frontier, which may store an estimated one-quarter of the world’s untapped hydrocarbon reserves. Moscow is expected to submit its claim to the United Nations for arbitration under the Law of the Sea Treaty (LOST) within the next couple of months. Russia’s scramble for the Arctic’s minerals was on display for all to behold when Artur Chilingarov, a renowned explorer and Deputy Chairman of the Duma, planted a titanium Russian flag beneath the North Pole in 2007 under Vladimir Putin’s orders. Putin also went on a mission to the High North to track and tag polar bears, highlighting Russia’s Arctic policy priorities. Russia initiated its claim through the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) in 2001—six years earlier. To boost this claim, this July the Russian research ship Akademik Fyodorov, accompanied by a nuclear-powered icebreaker, set off to prove that the Siberian continental shelf connects to underwater Arctic ridges by completing underwater mapping of the area in question. If confirmed, this may boost Russia’s claims to the Arctic continental shelf. Other members of the Arctic Council—the U.S., Canada, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, and Finland—may stand to lose if the CLCS approves Russian claims in the High North. Moscow has an unquestionable head start on the rest of the world, and it is not shy about investing in its ambitions. At least six new icebreakers and Sabetta, a new year-round port on the arctic shores—costing $33 billion—are on the agenda, but Prime Minister Putin has said the Kremlin is “open for a dialogue with our foreign partners and with all our neighbors in the Arctic region, but of course we will defend our own geopolitical interests firmly and consistently.” Or as they said in Soviet times, “What is mine is mine, and what is yours is negotiable.” The Arctic is of vital geopolitical importance not just to Russia, but to the entire world. It has enormous quantities of hydrocarbon energy and other natural resources, and as the Arctic is no longer completely icebound, in summertime it may become an important transportation route vital to U.S. national security. Despite this, at present the U.S. has made virtually no effort to strengthen its position in the frozen final frontier. The chief concern is America’s lack of icebreakers—even Canada and Finland have more than the United States. Icebreakers are vital to exploring the Arctic and enforceng one’s sovereignty there. As of 2010, Russia had 29 icebreakers in total and was building more. The United States had two (including one that is obsolete), with no plans to expand. The Heritage Foundation has exposed this problem extensively: The United States has significant geopolitical and geo-economic interests in the High North, but the lack of policy attention and insufficient funding have placed the U.S. on track to abdicate its national interests in this critical region. The United States must strengthen its position in the Arctic and make its interests clear to friend and foe alike. Washington should reach out to the Arctic Council members to block Russia’s expansion plans at the U.N. Meanwhile, the U.S. should fund and build its icebreaking squadron and deploy it in Alaska. Russia’s Arctic aspirations are a serious geopolitical challenge for U.S. and allied interests. America’s security and economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on U.S. ability to access polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.



Icebreakers, with Coast Guard oversight solve
NRC, 7 (National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 1)
The principal objective of the U.S. Coast Guard’s polar ice operations role is to support U.S. interests in the polar regions by providing the icebreaker operating time and capabilities required by the U.S. Coast Guard and user agencies in polar regions. This objective is selected as the U.S. Coast Guard’s long-term first priority because Coast Guard icebreakers are the only national icebreaking resources that can reliably accomplish national objectives in the polar regions. Although, the U.S. Coast Guard has included polar icebreaking as part of its national defense role, polar operations have in fact spanned all of the mission areas to some degree. The U.S. Coast Guard polar icebreakers have been tasked at various times to support the national objectives in the polar regions by (1) providing platforms for scientific research in the Arctic and Antarctic; (2) performing logistical and supply activities in the Arctic and Antarctic; (3) providing support for resource exploration, shipping demonstration projects, and research, development, and testing projects in the Arctic; (4) performing military missions in the Arctic; (5) supporting diplomatic missions related to U.S. strategic interests; and (6) coordinating an international exchange of information on ice operations. Even before the effects of environmental changes were widely recognized, the Arctic was a target for scientific inquiry as one of the least explored areas of the planet. It seems clear that the rapid environmental changes now under way will continue to require active scientific observation and study. While science support is not exclusively a U.S. Coast Guard mission, oceanographic research is directed by statute and has been part of the service’s Arctic operations since John Muir sailed with the Revenue Cutter CORWIN in 1884. Science support remains a compatible mission for U.S. Coast Guard-operated icebreakers. U.S. icebreaker presence in the Arctic, for any or all of the potential missions discussed above, would synergistically enhance the ability to conduct scientific sampling and observation. In yet another area of competition, robust marine research capabilities in the Arctic will also bolster the international standing of U.S. scientists and research programs, as well as preserve the benefits of applied research. The U.S. Coast Guard’s science support role, primarily through logistics in McMurdo Sound, is addressed in U.S. Coast Guard statutory authorities. The presence of U.S. Coast Guard icebreakers in the Antarctic every year brings a variety of additional national capabilities to the region, not the least of which is a visible maritime presence. The need for future U.S. Coast Guard presence in Antarctica could unfold in three possible ways. First, increased geopolitical competition in Antarctica—perhaps manifested by more aggressive activities by other nations or even outright abrogation of the Antarctic Treaty—might call for a more forceful and visible U.S. presence. U.S. Coast Guard units would be obvious candidates for such a presence in Antarctic coastal areas. A second need might result from extensions of the Antarctic Treaty system, or other international agreements, aimed at managing Antarctic activities such as fishing or other resource exploitation. Again, U.S. Coast Guard capabilities would offer an on-scene solution. Finally, Antarctic tourism is growing rapidly and involves thousands of American tourists sailing on foreign-flag vessels in an area with no sovereign regime of safety, security, or environmental regulation and enforcement. These are all areas of U.S. Coast Guard responsibility and expertise, and changes in the dynamics of Antarctic tourism could require U.S. federal action to protect American citizens. The likelihood of any of the foregoing possibilities is difficult to assess, but all could be accommodated by continued U.S. Coast Guard icebreaking support in the Antarctic.



===State 1AC=== 
===Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its icebreaking operations for the creation of United States’ waterways.
===Contention One- Arctic Shield=== 


Arctic war coming now- and not just with Russia- multiple nations are building up their military while scrambling for resources, access, and territory
Rosenthal 12 (Elisabeth- NYT staff writer/contributor, “Race Is On as Ice Melt Reveals Arctic Treasures”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/19/science/earth/arctic-resources-exposed-by-warming-set-off-competition.html?pagewanted=all)
NUUK, Greenland — With Arctic ice melting at record pace, the world’s superpowers are increasingly jockeying for political influence and economic position in outposts like this one, previously regarded as barren wastelands.¶ At stake are the Arctic’s abundant supplies of oil, gas and minerals that are, thanks to climate change, becoming newly accessible along with increasingly navigable polar shipping shortcuts. This year, China has become a far more aggressive player in this frigid field, experts say, provoking alarm among Western powers.¶ While the United States, Russia and several nations of the European Union have Arctic territory, China has none, and as a result, has been deploying its wealth and diplomatic clout to secure toeholds in the region.¶ “The Arctic has risen rapidly on China’s foreign policy agenda in the past two years,” said Linda Jakobson, East Asia program director at the Lowy Institute for International Policy in Sydney, Australia. So, she said, the Chinese are exploring “how they could get involved.”¶ In August, China sent its first ship across the Arctic to Europe and it is lobbying intensely for permanent observer status on the Arctic Council, the loose international body of eight Arctic nations that develops policy for the region, arguing that it is a “near Arctic state” and proclaiming that the Arctic is “the inherited wealth of all humankind,” in the words of China’s State Oceanic Administration.¶ To promote the council bid and improve relations with Arctic nations, its ministers visited Denmark, Sweden and Iceland this summer, offering lucrative trade deals. High-level diplomats have also visited Greenland, where Chinese companies are investing in a developing mining industry, with proposals to import Chinese work crews for construction.¶ Western nations have been particularly anxious about Chinese overtures to this poor and sparsely populated island, a self-governing state within the Kingdom of Denmark, because the retreat of its ice cap has unveiled coveted mineral deposits, including rare earth metals that are crucial for new technologies like cellphones and military guidance systems. A European Union vice president, Antonio Tajani, rushed here to Greenland’s capital in June, offering hundreds of millions in development aid in exchange for guarantees that Greenland would not give China exclusive access to its rare earth metals, calling his trip “raw mineral diplomacy.”¶ Greenland is close to North America, and home to the United States Air Force’s northernmost base in Thule. At a conference last month, Thomas R. Nides, deputy secretary of state for management and resources, said the Arctic was becoming “a new frontier in our foreign policy.”¶ In the past 18 months, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea have made debut visits here, and Greenland’s prime minister, Kuupik Kleist, was welcomed by President José Manuel Barroso of the European Commission in Brussels.¶ “We are treated so differently than just a few years ago,” said Jens B. Frederiksen, Greenland’s vice premier, in his simple office here. “We are aware that is because we now have something to offer, not because they’ve suddenly discovered that Inuit are nice people.”¶ Chinese activity in the Arctic to some extent mirrors that of other non-Arctic countries, as the region warms.¶ The European Union, Japan and South Korea have also applied in the last three years for permanent observer status at the Arctic Council, which would allow them to present their perspective, but not vote.¶ This once-obscure body, previously focused on issues like monitoring Arctic animal populations, now has more substantive tasks, like defining future port fees and negotiating agreements on oil spill remediation. “We’ve changed from a forum to a decision-making body,” said Gustaf Lind, Arctic ambassador from Sweden and the council’s current chairman.¶ But China sees its inclusion “as imperative so that it won’t be shut out from decisions on minerals and shipping,” said Dr. Jakobson, who is also an Arctic researcher at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. China’s economy is heavily dependent on exports, and the polar route saves time, distance and money to and from elsewhere in Asia and Europe, compared with traversing the Suez Canal.¶ So far there has been little actual exploitation of Arctic resources. Greenland has only one working mine, though more than 100 new sites are being mapped out. Here, as well as in Alaska, Canada and Norway, oil and gas companies are still largely exploring, although experts estimate that more than 20 percent of the world’s oil and gas reserves are in the Arctic. Warmer weather has already extended the work season by a month in many locations, making access easier.¶ At one point this summer, 97 percent of the surface of Greenland’s massive ice sheet was melting. At current rates, Arctic waters could be ice-free in summer by the end of the decade, scientists say.¶ “Things are happening much faster than what any scientific model predicted,” said Dr. Morten Rasch, who runs the Greenland Ecosystem Monitoring program at Aarhus University in Denmark.¶ Ownership of the Arctic is governed by the United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea, which gives Arctic nations an exclusive economic zone that extends 200 nautical miles from land, and to undersea resources farther away so long as they are on a continental shelf. The far northern Arctic Ocean belongs to no country, and conditions there are severe. In a place where exact boundaries were never much of a concern, haggling over borders has begun among the primary nations — between Canada and Denmark, and the United States and Canada, for example.¶ The United States has been hampered in the current jockeying because the Senate has refused to ratify the Convention of the Law of the Sea, even though both the Bush and Obama administrations have strongly supported doing so. This means the United States has not been able to formally stake out its underwater boundaries. “We are being left behind,” Deputy Secretary Nides said.¶ But experts say boundary disputes are likely to be rapidly resolved through negotiation, so that everyone can get on with the business of making money. There is “very little room for a race to grab territory, since most of the resources are in an area that is clearly carved up already,” said Kristofer Bergh, a researcher at the Stockholm Institute.¶ Even so, Arctic nations and NATO are building up military capabilities in the region, as a precaution. That has left China with little choice but to garner influence through a strategy that has worked well in Africa and Latin America: investing and joining with local companies and financing good works to earn good will. Its scientists have become pillars of multinational Arctic research, and their icebreaker has been used in joint expeditions.¶ And Chinese companies, some with close government ties, are investing heavily across the Arctic. In Canada, Chinese firms have acquired interests in two oil companies that could afford them access to Arctic drilling. During a June visit to Iceland, Premier Wen Jiabao of China signed a number of economic agreements, covering areas like geothermal energy and free trade.¶ In Greenland, large Chinese companies are financing the development of mines that are being developed around discoveries of gems or minerals by small prospecting companies, said Soren Meisling, head of the China desk at the Bech Bruun law firm in Copenhagen, which represents many of them. A huge iron ore mine under development near Nuuk, for example, is owned by a British company but financed in part by a Chinese steel maker.¶ Chinese mining companies have proved adept at working in challenging locales and have even proposed building runways for jumbo jets on the ice in Greenland’s far north to fly out minerals until the ice melts enough for shipping.¶ “There is already a sense of competition in the Arctic, and they think they can have first advantage,” said Jingjing Su, a lawyer in Bech Bruun’s China practice.¶ The efforts have clear political backing. Greenland’s minister for industry and mineral resources was greeted by Vice Premier Li Keqiang in China last November. A few months later, China’s minister of land and resources, Xu Shaoshi, traveled to Greenland to sign cooperation agreements.¶ Western analysts have worried that China could leverage its wealth, particularly in some of the cash-poor corners of the Arctic like Greenland and Iceland.

The Coast Guard is increasing Arctic presence through “Arctic Shield” – more icebreakers are key –this also non-uniques DAs
Slattery 10/26 (Brian Slattery- Research Assistant, Defense Studies Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, 10/26/2012, “Arctic Shield: Coast Guard Looking North”, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/10/26/arctic-shield-coast-guard-looking-north/”)
The Arctic has become a hotbed of interest in recent years. The Coast Guard has recognized this trend and is pursuing more presence in the region, but will its resources be able to keep up with rapidly increasing traffic? Rear Admiral Thomas P. Ostebo, commander of the 17th District of the U.S. Coast Guard, recently testified before Congress during a field hearing about Arctic issues and the sea service’s exercise “Arctic Shield 2012.” Ostebo explained the purpose of the exercise, the lessons learned, and what new assets and capabilities they brought to the region. While the exercise is considered a success, the Coast Guard requires more resources to make these capabilities a reality. Notably at Arctic Shield, the Coast Guard stationed two helicopters in Barrow, Alaska (the northernmost point in the U.S.), to afford the sea service increased presence, situational awareness, and reach within the Arctic Circle. The USCGC Bertholf, the first-in-class of the National Security Cutter (NSC) fleet, also deployed to the region, marking an important milestone for a cutter class intended to provide increased range and presence farther from the coast. Both of these firsts indicate that the Coast Guard is aware of growing interests in the Arctic for natural resources such as hydrocarbons and fisheries, expanding sea lanes, and tourism. In spite of Arctic Shield’s success, the Coast Guard may have trouble keeping up with real-world increased traffic in northern U.S. waters while executing its various other missions. The sea service has already been operating with old and overused equipment, particularly in its High Endurance Cutter fleet. The Hamilton-class fleet has been sailing since the 1960s and has extended well beyond its intended service life. The NSC, intended to replace this fleet, has been cut from a requirement of 16 vessels to just eight. Sadly, the Coast Guard is having trouble meeting even that reduced requirement. The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) fiscal year 2013 budget request removes advanced funding for the seventh and eighth planned NSCs, which would effectively eliminate their production. No justification has been offered by the Coast Guard or DHS as to how this will affect Coast Guard missions and maritime security. Also critical to missions in the Arctic is America’s icebreaking capability. Regrettably, this is one capability that is more lacking than even the High Endurance Cutter fleet. The U.S. Coast Guard has two heavy-duty icebreakers, neither of which is currently operational. One is set to be revitalized, but this will be costly and add only a few years to the vessel’s service life. A new heavy-duty icebreaker would cost nearly a billion dollars and take a decade to build. Considering that the Coast Guard’s total recapitalization budget for fiscal year 2013 is $1.2 billion, it would be difficult to afford much else if the sea service wishes to buy a new icebreaker, even over 10 years. Moreover, what will be covering Arctic waters during the decade that the vessel is being built? The U.S. should instead pursue leasing commercial icebreakers that can serve Coast Guard missions when necessary. This will be cost effective and provide presence more immediately. Representative Frank LoBiondo (R–NJ), chairman of the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, has claimed that the Coast Guard is caught in a “death spiral” because growing missions are dramatically outpacing fleet modernization and replacement. His colleagues in the House and Senate should recognize the critical security America gains from the Coast Guard and provide adequate funding for the sea service to perform its missions.

Lack of effective presence makes Russian resource and territorial grabs inevitable- it also undermines cooperation
Dowd 11 – MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute
Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979
One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by drilling and shipping. In addition, competition for Arctic resources could lead to confrontation. Adm. James Stavridis, who serves as NATO’s military commander, concedes that the Arctic could become “a zone of conflict” (UPI).¶ To brace for that possibility and thwart Russia’s Arctic fait accompli, the United States, Canada, Denmark and Norway—all NATO members and Arctic nations—should follow the Cold War playbook: build up the assets needed to defend their interests, use those assets to deter aggression, and deal with Moscow from a posture of strength and unity.¶ The challenge is to remain open to cooperation while bracing for worst-case scenarios. After all, Russia is not the Soviet Union. Even as Putin and his puppets make mischief, Moscow is open to making deals. Russia and Norway, for instance, recently resolved a long-running boundary dispute, paving the way for development in 67,000 square-miles of the Arctic. Moreover, the U.S., Russia, Canada, Denmark and Norway have agreed on Arctic search-and-rescue responsibilities (Cummins).¶ In a world of increasingly integrated markets, we know there is much to gain from Arctic cooperation and much to lose from protracted military standoff. But we also know that dealing naively with Moscow carries a heavy cost—and that integration is a two-way street. ¶ “Russian leaders today yearn not for integration,” the Brookings Institution’s Robert Kagan concludes, “but for a return to a special Russian greatness.” ¶ In short, Russia is more interested in recreating the autarky of some bygone era than in the shared benefits of globalization. ¶ Framework for Partnership¶ Dealing with Russia is about power. As Churchill once said of his Russian counterparts, “There is nothing they admire so much as strength, and there is nothing for which they have less respect than for weakness.”¶ When the message is clear—or “hard and consistent,” to use Putin’s language—Russia will take a cooperative posture. When the message is unclear, Russia will take what it can get. ¶ Just consider Russia’s contrasting treatment of its neighbors: Moscow blusters about Poland and the Baltic states but keeps its hands off, largely because they are protected by the U.S.-NATO umbrella. Conversely, Russia bullies Ukraine, garrisons its troops—uninvited—in Moldova, and occupies Georgian territory. The common denominator of these unfortunate countries: They have no U.S. security guarantee. ¶ Russia should be given an opportunity to participate as a responsible partner in Arctic development. But if Russia continues to take Putin’s hard line, the U.S. and its allies are left with few other options than standing together or allowing Russia to divide and conquer. ¶ To avoid that, the allies may need to agree among themselves on lines of demarcation, transit routes and exploration rights—and then pool their resources to protect their shared interests. ¶ This will require investment in Arctic capabilities. For instance, the U.S. has only three polar icebreakers, two of which have exceeded their projected 30-year lifespan (O’Rourke). Russia can deploy 20 icebreakers. ¶ “We have extremely limited Arctic response capabilities,” explains Adm. Robert Papp, USCG commandant. Noting that the Coast Guard has “the lead role in ensuring Arctic maritime safety, security and stewardship,” Papp urges Congress “to start building infrastructure up there” (Joling and Papp).¶ Washington’s defense cuts will only exacerbate these gaps, especially as Russia’s oil-aided boom enables it to retool its armed forces. Investing just 1.1 percent of its GDP on defense, Canada faces even greater challenges in defending its Arctic interests. ¶ But if the allies can combine their Arctic capabilities—each filling a niche role—and agree on a common approach to Arctic security, the framework to put those capabilities into practice is arguably already in place. ¶ Jointly operated by the U.S. and Canada, NORAD could serve as the model for an Arctic security partnership. Just as NORAD defends North American airspace, an allied maritime arrangement under the NORAD rubric could provide for security in Arctic waters. ¶ It’s worth noting that maritime surveillance was added to NORAD’s responsibilities in 2006. And in 2011, the Pentagon shifted responsibility for most Arctic operations to Northern Command (NORTHCOM), headed up by the same person who commands NORAD (Elliot). ¶ Preparing¶ Bracing for military eventualities in the Arctic is not armchair alarmism. ¶ In fact, Gen. Gene Renuart, former NORTHCOM commander, reported in 2008 that U.S. officials were beginning to explore ways to “posture NORAD…to provide the right kind of search and rescue, military response, if need be, and certainly security for whatever activities occur in the Arctic.”¶ “In order to ensure a peaceful opening of the Arctic,” adds Adm. James Winnefeld, current NORTHCOM commander, “DOD must anticipate today the Arctic operations that will be expected of it tomorrow.”¶ In other words, the goal in preparing for worst-case scenarios and shoring up allied resolve in the Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.

Independently the plan is key to map the OCS- which solves territory disputes
Cohen et al 8 (Ariel, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies @ Heritage, PhD @ Tufts U, “The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic”, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2008/10/the-new-cold-war-reviving-the-us-presence-in-the-arctic)
Yet to protect its rights, the U.S. needs to know how far its claims stretch into the Arctic Ocean. The U.S. has been mapping the bottom of the Arctic Ocean and the Outer Continental Shelf since 2003.[27] Mapping is essential to determining the extent of the U.S. OCS and determining whether the U.S. has any legitimate claims to territory beyond its 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone. Despite ongoing U.S. efforts to chart the bottom of the Arctic Ocean, mapping efforts have been inadequate. According to a National Research Council report in 2007, the U.S. continental shelf and the Northwest Passage have not yet been entirely mapped.[28] Mapping is also important for disputing any conflicting claims by other Arctic nations. For example, the U.S. and Canada have likely claimed some of the same parts of the continental shelf.[29] Mapping data will also help to determine whether Russian claims conflict with U.S. and Canadian claims.¶ The expedition undertaken by the icebreaker USCGC Healy in the Chukchi Sea focused on surveying an area 400 to 600 miles north of Alaska and cost about $1.2 million—a pittance compared to the billions of dollars of Arctic natural resources that are at stake. The survey indicated that the foot or lowest part of the Alaskan continental shelf stretches more than 100 miles beyond what was previously thought, thus expanding the U.S. claim.[30]¶ The U.S. requires a modern flotilla of icebreakers to conduct mapping and to sustain U.S. claims. The U.S. currently has only three icebreakers that belong to the Coast Guard, of which only the Healy (commissioned in 2000) is relatively new. The other two icebreakers, while heavier than the Healy and thus capable of breaking through thicker ice, are at the end of their designed service life after operating for about 30 years. Yet even if the U.S. begins now, it will be eight to 10 years before a new icebreaker can enter service, and no money has been allocated to build a new-generation heavy icebreaker.[31]
That escalates to nuclear war

Staples 09 (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming an zone of increased military competition. Russian President Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims. Russian General Vladimir Shamanov declared that Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.” This week, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 years.6 In January, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. As Michael Hamel-Greene has pointed out, it affirmed as a priority to preserve U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic. The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar in Eastern Europe, has greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep water port. Denmark last week released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with ship-based helicopters able to drop troops anywhere. Danish fighter planes could be patrolling Greenlandic airspace. Last year, Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs. The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved. Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN Under-Secretary for Disarmament Affairs, summarizes the situation bluntly. He warns us that “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that two nuclear weapon states – the United States and the Russian Federation, which together own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on the Arctic and have competing claims. These claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”

A hardline approach is necessary to prevent conflict escalation, miscalculation, and great power war- newest and most complex models prove
Murray 12 (Professor of Political Science @ Alberta

Robert, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1, 4 pt font is for long passages without relevant information)

It is no overstatement to say that the end of the Cold War was one of the most important events in recent world history. Scholars from many areas of study have used the fall of the Soviet Union as a starting point to explain shifts in security, globalization, humanitarianism and institutional integration, all of which played important roles in world affairs in the immediate post-Cold War era. Since 1991, explanatory models for international and global politics have broadened their scope to include variables such as individual preferences, capitalist oppression, ideational construction, environmentalism, gender and sexual politics, and discursive power to levels previously unforeseen throughout the Cold War years. As such, we now see the world as a far more complex and nefarious arena in which power and dominance are exercised each day. At the systemic level, the fall of the Soviet Union equated to nothing short of a monumental shift in the way states would make foreign and defence strategy. For 50 years, the bipolar system was dominated by two superpowers constantly competing and building arms in an effort to balance one another. The end of the Cold War signalled a major shift in systemic arrangement, as the system went from being bipolar to the world entering what was often referred to as the “unipolar moment.”1 The era of unipolarity and American hegemony in the international system has been marked by stability in an interstate sense, and the realignment of various spheres of influence in the wake of the Soviet Union’s demise. Far from being just a theoretical notion, the unipolar moment has also provided states with an environment in which to pursue their national self-interest where the likelihood of conflict is decreased and great power security competition has been minimized.2 As such, new areas of foreign affairs and defence strategy have become far more important than they could have been throughout the bipolar con- strained Cold War years. One of the most notable examples in this regard has been the increased desire for territorial protection and extension in the Arctic region. In an era of state preoccupation with humanitarianism, terrorism and economic reces- sion, it is being suggested by some observers that the Arctic has become the primary stage through which states, both great and minor in power, can pursue their self-interest in a way that combines soft power cooperation through bodies of gov- ernance with hard power and military build-up. As things presently stand, there are a variety of nations and institutions all seek- ing to claim governing authority over different parts of the circumpolar region. Nations making claims to parts of the Arctic Ocean or other northern waters include Canada, Russia, the United States, Norway, Iceland and Denmark/Greenland. On the institutional side, Arctic governance has been debated and defined by bodies such as the United Nations, the European Union, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the Arctic Council.3 To date, no clear resolution to competing claims is in sight, and in some cases the situation is on the verge of becoming far morecompetitiveas nations such as Russia have resorted to asserting possible military solutions to contested Arctic issues to bolster their declarations. It is important to note the increased levels of interest over Arctic relations between states, but, on this point, little attention has been given to the influence of the international system over this situation. If the unipolar moment has been defined as an era of relative stability and diplomatic coexistence, and tensions in the Arctic are already on the rise, what is to happen when the multipolar system finally emerges in the near future? Since 2005, the status of the United States as systemic hegemon has been in decline due to economic, military and political strains placed on American power capabilities throughout the Bush era and beyond. This decrease in relative power preponderance has been even further exacerbated by the economic recession starting in 2008 and the nation’s inability to stabilize its markets. As such, the predictions of those like Christopher Layne and John Mearsheimer are on the verge of coming to fruition, in that the unipolar moment is about to end.4 New great powers are ris- ing, the United States is no longer able to prevent these nations from balancing their power, and the once obvious prevalence of American power is far murkier than it was a decade ago. As the multipolar era becomes increasingly likely, one must ponder the effects this shift might have on state foreign and defence strategy- making, especially towards the Arctic region. To date, though its relative power position has declined significantly in recent years, the United States remains the hegemon of the international system, but it is contended here that such status is soon to evaporate. In this context, this article argues that the emergence of a multipolar systemic arrangement is very likely to increase security competition in the system as a whole, and the Arctic will be at the epicentre of such conflict. To lend support to this hypothesis, an examination of the impending shift from unipolarity to multipolarity will be made, as will an account of current security dynamics in the circumpolar region. The article concludes with a stark warning that without some kind of real action towards settling competing Arctic claims, it will beleft to states to secure their own territorial assertions through hard power and forceful means. The system is unipolar ... for now In order to evaluate the polarity of the international system in a given historical period, one must identify the hierarchy of power in terms of the number of super or great powers dominating international outcomes. Counting great or super powers can be somewhat difficult in contemporary international relations, as scholars have begun to expand the notions of power and capabilities, but the clearest guideline for being able to identify great powers is through determining capabilities. The rea- son it is essential to understand the great powers in international relations is that they, above all other states, institutions, non-state actors and ideational forces, are responsible for the daily conduct of behaviour in the international system, and they have been historically accountable for substantial alterations to power distribution since the 1648 Peace of Westphalia. Measuring capabilities allows observers to explain which states are most likely to affect the behaviour of other states, to use force or violence; also, the number of great powers in a given era determines how stable or unstable the international system will be. Identifying great powers is literally done by evaluating each state’s capabilities in essential areas of political life that can maximize security or extend one’s power. When discussing the distribution of power across states, there is a clear hierarchy of capabilities among states that leads observers to classify these utility maximizing, rational actors as super, great, major, middle or minor powers in the international system. In terms of actual measurement, Kenneth Waltz argues: “Their rank depends on how they score on all of the following items: size of population and territory, resource endowment, economic capability, military strength, political stability and competence.”5 Once these various factors are taken into account, one can clearly determine the given polarity of the system at a given moment in history. Why is polarity important? According to structural realist theory, the number of great powers in the system determines how conflictual, violent or stable interna- tional politics will be. While the overall structure of the system remains anarchic, meaning a clear absence of a governing authority above states that can control their actions, there can be consequential variations within the anarchic structure that can impact how states will evaluate their foreign and defence policy strategies and affect their overall behaviour. Waltz claims that “ ‘consequential’ variations in number are changes of number that lead to different expectations about the effect of structure on units.”6 There are three types of structure within the system that have been determined throughout the history of the modern state system – unipolarity, bipolar- ity and multipolarity. The consequential variations described by Waltz take place when great powers either rise or fall, and induce shifts from one type of polarity to another. The rise and fall of great powers is perhaps the most important explanatory aspect of international politics because it is these states that “inherently possess some offensive military capability, which gives them the wherewithal to hurt and possibly destroy each other.”7 Though the primary motivation for all states is secu- rity maximization, great powers become the most important actors because while they are capable of defending themselves, they also have the ability to extend their sphere of influence in offensive posturing. It is in this context that the polarity of the system becomes even more vital, in that the more great powers there are, the greater likelihood ofviolence and conflict there is. In each systemic arrangement, the abilities of great powers to pursue their ultimate goal, which is hegemony, dic- tates whether foreign and defence policy strategies will be overtly defensive or potentially offensive. All states are like-units, in that they all strive for survival by making rational calculations about how to best pursue their interests in an anarchic system. Of course, strategies of states will differ greatly based on the distribution of power, meaning that great powers are able to pursue their goals more freely than minor powers because they can operate without allies or institutions in achieving their goals. Lesser powers, however, typically try to increase their power position in world affairs through various alliance blocs and institutional binding. In doing so, it is hoped that middle and minor powers are able to guarantee their survival by align- ing themselves with powers larger than themselves. Given the arrangement of the system, the number of alliances or blocs of power will differ, which also contributes to just how stable or violent the system will be. Conflict, or the possibility of it, is a constant problem in international relations due to the anarchic structure of the international system. Anarchy, by its definition, denotes a lack of overarching authority and thus states, especially the most powerful states, are able to behave as they would like, without any external body capable of controlling their actions. Robert Art and Robert Jervis aptly define anarchy by argu- ing: “States can make commitments and treaties, but no sovereign power ensures compliance and punished deviation. This – the absence of a supreme power – is what is meant by the anarchic environment of international politics.”8 In anarchy, just as in the state of nature or war prior to the establishment of civilized human society, there is no harmony and actors are left to their own inclinations to pursue their self-interest. The key elements of anarchy that precipitate conflict are the con- stant distrust of others’ motives, the assumption that other actors may not be as rational as oneself, and, as Waltz notes, “a state will use force to attain its goals if, after assessing the prospects for success, it values those goals more than it values the pleasures of peace.”9 The constant tensions between states, and the ability of great powers to more freely pursue their national interests, contributes to a system where security and survival are at a premium, and the polarity of the system matters to all states. By definition, bipolar systems are the most stable. According to Mearsheimer, this assumption is made based on three criteria: First, the number of conflict dyads is fewer, leaving fewer possibilities for war. Sec- ond, deterrence is easier, because imbalances of power are fewer and more easily averted. Third, the prospects for deterrence are greater because miscalculations of rela- tive power and opponents’ resolve are fewer and less likely.10 By contrast, multipolar systems have a far greater probability of conflict, tension and distrust among states. War is far more likely in multipolar systems because major power dyads are more numerous, each posing the potential for conflict. Conflict could also erupt across dyads involving major and minor powers. Dyads between minor powers could also lead to war [...]. Wars in a multipolar world involving just minor powers or only one major power are not likely to be as devastating as a conflict between two major powers. However, local wars tend to widen and escalate. Hence there is always a chance that a small war will trigger a general conflict.11 While bipolarity is considered to be the most stable arrangement, and multipolarity the least stable, there is also the rare time when the system is unipolar in character. Put simply, unipolarity occurs when there is such a preponderance of power by one state that others are incapable of balancing against it. According to William Wohl- forth, unipolarity is also a stable and peaceful arrangement: unipolarity favors the absence of war among the great powers and comparatively low levels of competition for prestige or security for two reasons: the leading state’s power advantage removes the problem of hegemonic rivalry from world politics, and it reduces the salience and stakes of balance-of-power politics among the major states.12 The status of the hegemonic power in a unipolar system allows for the expansion of its normative agenda, but also allows it to pacify internationalaffairs because it lacks both a hegemonic rival and the effects of balance of power politics.13 As such, unipolar systems can be stable, depending on whom the hegemon is and what its vision for dominance might be. Since the end of World War II, only two types of polarity have been seen. Between 1945 and 1991, the system was bipolar, in that there were only two super- powers dominating the affairs of international politics. This bipolar arrangement was surprisingly stable and though smaller proxy wars erupted throughout the years of the Cold War, the relations between the two dominant powers, namely the United States and the Soviet Union, never came to a head. There are various explanations for why this was the case, but John Mearsheimer provides perhaps the most concise and accurate explanations as he contends that the absence of war in Europe and beyond throughout the Cold War can be attributed to three specific factors: the bipolar distribution of military power on the [European] Continent; the rough mili- tary equality between the two states comprising the two poles in Europe, the United States and the Soviet Union; and the fact that each superpower was armed with a large nuclear arsenal.14 At the conclusion of the Cold War, there was a clear and major shift in the distribution of power in the system, which translated into the unipolar moment. With the fall of the Soviet Union, the United States retained its superpower status and held a preponderance of power in virtually all areas of capabilities measurement. Christopher Layne contends that American hegemony is contingent upon two factors: First, the United States enjoys a commanding preeminence in both military and eco- nomic power. Second, since the Soviet Union’s disappearance, no other great power has emerged to challenge US preponderance. In this sense, US hegemony is the result of objective material conditions.15 Throughout the Clinton and early years of the Bush administrations, the role of the United States as systemic hegemon was virtually unquestioned, and it seemed as if American hegemony could last for a very long time. It was not until the latter years of the Bush administration that the waning of American hegemony began to become apparent. One of the key reasons the system remains unipolar is that there has yet to be a state that can balance against US power in either the hard or soft power senses. That said, the main reason for the decline in American hegemony has been a costly set of irrational and ill-advised foreign policy decisions, combined with years of economic overvaluation that eroded the hegemonic position of the world’s lone superpower.16 Both the intervention into Iraq, starting in 2003, and the fallout of the 2008 recession have served to substantially weaken the United States in both the hard and soft power contexts, and thus it is clear that a multipolar system is on the horizon. As Layne notes, “although a new geopolitical balance has yet to emerge, there is considerable evidence that other states have been engaging in bal- ancing against the United States – including hard balancing.”17 Theemerging great powers, especially China and Russia, will have a profound impact on the conduct of international relations in the years to come. Perhaps the most important area of security competition that has gone under- scrutinized from a systemic standpoint is the increased level of interest in the Arctic. Currently, the competing claims for the circumpolar region are mostly peaceful and focusing on diplomatic and legal battles, but recent trends suggest that non-violent strategy may not continue. As the era of American hegemony comes to an end, and a multipolar system begins to emerge, the impact on the Arctic region is likely to beprofound due to the militaristic nature of state security strategies, unpredictability and a potential retreat from cooperationnormally seen in multipolar structures. The Arctic in the unipolar moment One of the cornerstones of America’s unipolar moment has been the remarkable decline in interstate conflict. Since the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, the interna- tional system has not been on the verge of any major war, nor have great powers aggressively pursued policies that would balance against American power in a way that would be taken seriously. According to many scholarly studies, the world since the end of the Cold War has become far more secure in the interstate sense, and security and defence policies of states are now preoccupied more with human- centric and intrastate variables than anything else. Though it is difficult to deny that the world has become more stable at the systemic level, the role of hard power and military capabilities did not disappear with the Soviet Union; instead, the use of militarism to achieve national goals in the unipolar moment greatly decreased as a direct result of the values and grand strategy of the United States. The impact of a unipolar systemic arrangement on state behaviour is best explained by the hegemonic stability theory.18 According to this theory, a unipolar structure is able to pacify the relations of states because there is recognition of the hegemon’s ability to control or intervene in conflicts that may threaten its power, or the order of the system. Wohlforth summarizes the basic precept of hegemonic stability theory by contending: The theory stipulates that especially powerful states (“hegemons”) foster international orders that are stable until differential growth in power produces a dissatisfied state with the capability to challenge the dominant state for leadership. The clearer and lar- ger the concentration of power in the leading state, the more peaceful the international order associated with it will be [...] If the system is unipolar, the great power hierar- chy should be much more stable than any hierarchy lodged within a system of more than one pole. Because unipolarity is based on a historically unprecedented concentra- tion of power in the United States, a potentially important source of great power con- flict – hegemonic rivalry – will be missing.19 It is essential to note two things about the status of the United States as systemic hegemon throughout the immediate post-Cold War era – first, that its preponderance of power in every area of capability measurement created a stable and less tense system in which states were able to interact; and second, that the United States’ time as hegemon has fostered the growth of multilateral institutions and agreements rather than a bullying type of unipolarity.20 From a systemic standpoint, it would seem that there is little reason to be concerned about military aggression, arms racing and distrustful competition in the modern system, but one vital concern to note is that much of the unipolar and hegeomic stability literature completely ignores the role of the Arctic in state security calculations. Throughout an era of institutional binding, regional integra- tion, humanitarianism and soft power growth, the competition for the Arctic was following much of the same pattern, with states preferring to make their claims in institutional or legal settings. Yet, as the unipolar moment has started to decline, and multipolarity is on the horizon, the competition in the circumpolar region has taken on a very different tone. Competing claims over Arctic territories, such as the Northwest Passage, Beaufort Sea and other maritime boundaries, and the use of the region as a space for military exercises are by no means new and they have not come to the forefront of the strategic security agendas of states since the post-9/11 era. Rather, throughout the Cold War, the Arctic was a realm of constant supervision, not because either superpower wanted to develop the region, but more because of the mutual fear each side had of offensive attacks being launched over the pole. Even throughout the unipolar moment, the Arctic has been a space for sovereignty competition, but the nature of the competition had been mostly legal, institutional or soft power focused.21 Worth noting as well is the very complex nature of reasons for state interests in the Arctic. Mark Nuttall effectively summarizes the complexities of the high north as he claims: In the post-Cold War world [the Arctic] is seen as a natural scientific laboratory, under- stood as a homeland for indigenous peoples, a place of sovereignty conflicts, an emerg- ing hydrocarbon province with which the world is coming to think of as one of the last major frontiers for oil and gas, and a region of dramatic environmental change.22 Though the intricacies of Arctic competition are intriguing to note, it is how states are strategically asserting their claims that is of particular importance. The start of America’s hegemonic decline has allowed states to revisit their approaches to the Arctic as nations jockey for position by balancing or rivalling American preferences. As a result, the nature of Arctic competition has incorporated both soft power and hard power elements. Further, the nature of militarism and hard power tension has increased due to the recent spending and strategic shifts by many Arctic states in recent years, including Canada, Norway, Sweden and Russia.23 The reasons for America’s decline are relatively unsurprising – military overextension in Afghanistan and Iraq; the lack of international support for American foreign policy objectives throughout the Bush era; the 2008 economic recession; and the utter dis- trust by most states, including close American allies, of the United States’ political objectives.24 The system remains unipolar, of course, but as stated above, the pre- ponderance of power capabilities hassubstantially diminished, opening the door for others to balance and rival American power in the coming years. Coincidentally, it has also been the revelations of science in recent years that have also promoted a faster pace for those states making Arctic claims. The role of climate change and its impact over the Arctic has allowed for states to more freely move into the region and pursue strategies previously unavailable.25 According to Lotta Numminen, climate change has recently affected states’ perceptions of the possible economic opportunities in the Arctic in four ways: first, that the subsurface of the Arctic Ocean floor is assumed to contain substantial oil and gas reserves, to which there will be increased access; second, that melting waters will provide new waters for international fisheries; third, the increase in research strategies; and fourth, is the greater access to sea passages.26 One of the main reasons states see the Arctic region as such a lucrative area is the potential for increasing their respec- tive economic and natural resource capabilities. Previously, the northern ice caps prevented states from entering most of the Arctic Ocean and surrounding areas, but as these environmental situations change, states have readily identified the high north as a priority in both their security and economic strategies. Among the main reasons the Arctic has not been more readily seen as a poten- tial area for security competition and conflict is the interpretation that the United States has little or no interest in the circumpolar region at all. According to Stephen Brooks and William Wohlforth, American hegemony throughout the post-Cold War era was seen as passive, stable and enduring because of the lack of counterpower being demonstrated in the system: Bounded by oceans to the east and west and weak, friendly powers to the north and south, the United States is both less vulnerable than previous aspiring hegemons and also less threatening to others. The main potential challengers to its unipolarity, mean- while – China, Russia, Japan, and Germany – are in the opposite position. They can- not augment their military capabilities so as to balance the United States without simultaneously becoming an immediate threat to their neighbors. Politics, even interna- tional politics, is local. Although American power attracts a lot of attention globally, states are usually more concerned with their own neighborhoods than with the global equilibrium. Were any of the potential challengers to make a serious run at the United States, regional balancing efforts would almost certainly help contain them, as would the massive latent power capabilities of the United States, which could be mobilized as necessary to head off an emerging threat.27 Almost completely omitted from such interpretations, however, are America’s north- ern borders over Alaska and into the Arctic. Latitudinal thinking would seem to indicate that Brooks and Wohlforth are correct in terms of America’s interests in many areas of the globe, but this ignores what has been happening at the top of the world in the high north. It is not as if the United States has been ignorant of its own decline in power, especially regarding the Arctic. In 2009, the United States issued National Security Presidential Directive 66 and Homeland Security Presidential Directive 25 that deal exclusively with American Arctic policy. According to these directives, the altera- tions to national policies of other states regarding the Arctic compelled the United States to clearly outline the security and development strategies they would use to protect its Arctic interests. Among the first, and most clear, elements of the direc- tives is the clear intention of the United States to defend their national security interests. According to Article III, subsection B 1 of the directives: The United States has broad and fundamental national security interests in the Arctic region and is prepared to operate either independently or in conjunction with other states to safeguard these interests. These interests include suchmatters as missile defense and early warning; deployment ofsea and air systems for strategic sealift, strategic deterrence, maritime presence, and maritime security operations; and ensuring freedom of navigation and overflight.28 The contemporary changes to the international system as the era of American hegemony has begun to wane, the effects of climate change and greater access, and the increasingly militaristic strategies of most every Arctic state have led to a situation where tensions are at an all time high, and that legal or institutional processes are unlikely to resolve anything amicably. As the system continues its transition away from unipolarity, observers are left to ponder what might come next after an era of relative interstate stability. Multipolarity and the circumpolar In their 2002 article on the nature of United States primacy and the enduring aspects of American hegemony, Brooks and Wohlforth argue that the United States would have to act as a benevolent hegemon in order to prevent counterbalancing and to be able to build effective regimes worldwide. They argue: Magnanimity and restraint in the face of temptation are tenets of successful statecraft that have proved their worth from classical Greece onward. Standing taller than lead- ing states of the past, the United States has unprecedented freedom to do as it pleases. It can play the game for itself alone or for the system as a whole; it can focus on small returns today or larger ones tomorrow. If the administration truly wants to be loved as well as feared, the policy answers are not hard to find.29 The problem with such analyses of American hegemony is that the Bush administration chose to ignore utterly such warnings and, rather than acting mag- nanimously, post-9/11 American foreign policy did precisely what it should not have. Pre-emption, coercion and irrational interventions, combined with a major economic recession, all serve to explain why American hegemony began to decline by 2005 in terms of both actual power levels and perceptions of legitimate hege- monic status.30 The clearest sign that American exceptionalism has been decreasing is the aggressive and regional balancing dynamics taking place between states in the Arctic region. Security strategy in the circumpolar region has altered dramatically since 2005, with more states showing interest, hard power spending increasing, and legal pro- cesses being coupled by at times overtly offensive strategy.31 Russia, Canada and a number of European states, especially Norway and Sweden, exemplify this line of argument about how sovereignty claims have become focused on traditional inter- state arms racing and militarism while soft power components, like governance structures and legal processes, continually evolve.32 As mentioned previously, even the United States has woken up to see that, as their hegemony declines, other states have begun to balance against them in the Arctic, thus provoking the 2009 Presi- dential Directives. Even so, Arctic interested nations have not yielded to American claims, nor has there been any evidence of America’s closest allies backing down in the face of its Arctic assertions, most clearly evidenced by Canada’s continued claims over the Northwest Passage.33 In the international relations canon, most observers point to either India or China as emerging great powers that are the most likely to counterbalance Ameri- can power. The 2004 American National Intelligence Council report highlights this theory by stating: The likely emergence of China and India as new major global players – similar to the rise of Germany in the 19th century and the United States in the early 20th century – will transform the geopolitical landscape, with impacts potentially as dramatic as those of the previous two centuries. In the same way that commentators refer to the 1900s as the American Century, the early 21st century may be seen as the time when some in the developing world led by China and India came into their own.34 Both China and India have recently expressed their interest in Arctic affairs, but no power is as close to rivalling or challenging American power in hard power terms than Russia. This is especially true in the Arctic, as Russia’s Arctic policies have made its intentions towards asserting its control over territory it deems to be sovereign very clear. The role of the Arctic in Russian foreign policy cannot be understated. According to Russia’s 2008 Arctic policy document, the region is seen as the epicentre of Russia’s military and socio-economic development. The top two priorities for Russian Arctic interests are defined as follows: (a) In the sphere of socio-economic development – the expansion of the resource base of the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation, in order to substantially satisfy Russia’s needs in hydrocarbon resources, hydro-biological resources, and other types of strate- gic raw materials; (b) In the sphere of military security, defense, and safekeeping of the state borders of the Russian Federation located in the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation – the upkeep of a favorable operational regime in the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federa- tion, including the maintenance of the required combat potential of military groupings under the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations and agencies in this region [...]35 In order to achieve these goals, the Russians have created a unique military brigade to be permanently posted in the Arctic, have placed a Russian Federation flag on the Arctic Ocean seabed, have conducted various missile tests, have sailed their nuclear submarines through contested waters and have openly challenged the abilities of other states to enforce their own claims. In response to Russian offensive posturing and the inability of the United States to dissuade security competition in the area, middle and minor powers have begun to use hard power as a means of trying to enforce their sovereignty. Perhaps the best example here is Canada, whose military capabilities are extremely weak, but strong rhetoric and a drastically increased level of high-north military spending since 2006 seems to indicate that the Canadian government cannot rely on its American alliances to protect its interests, and that posturing by states like Russia or even Denmark clearly threaten Canada’s national interests. As Norway, Sweden and Denmark have begun to put an emphasis on hard power capabilities to extend or defend northern claims, Canada has done the same. Worth noting as well in the Canadian context is that, while great powers like Russia and the United States can easily defeat any middle or minor power, Canada’s capabilities are being either rivalled or surpassed by European states like Norway.36 Canada’s realization of the evolving security and environmental climate in the Arctic has compelled changes to its domestic and foreign security policies, each seeking to assert Canadian sovereignty over areas of the Arctic, especially the Northwest Passage. One of the main components of now Prime Minister Harper’s 2005–06 campaign was to bolster Arctic security resources, as many Canadians have identified the region as an essential part of Canada’s national security and identity.37 Rob Huebert argues: The Harper government has increasingly recognized the significance of maintaining a strong presence in the Arctic and has vigorously begun to improve Canada’s northern abilities [...] The Harper government has also made a series of promises to consider- ably expand Canada’s northern capability [...] If these promises are implemented, Canada will have significantly improved its ability to control activity in its Arctic.38 In virtually any other area of the world, Canadian national security cannot be divorced from the United States, which is a partial explanation for why Canada has traditionally been considered a middle power since the end of World War II.39 Yet, since the start of American decline, the Canadian government has recognized that its fate in the Arctic will be its own, and not intrinsically tied to the protection of the United States, as the Americans have their own interests in the region and have shown a complete disregard for Canadian claims over the Northwest Passage and the Beaufort Sea. As the world moves towards multipolarity, it has become increasingly obvious that the Arctic region represents an area of increased security competition and a potentially conflictual region in the future. Multipolar systems are the most unsta- ble, and history has shown these to produce military conflict due to the natural effects brought by a larger number of self-interested powers vying for power and security. Further, as new great powers begin to emerge, American strategic consid- erations will be spread so thin that they will be unable to prevent against their even- tual loss of hegemony. The largest mistake being made at this time by international security scholars and policymakers is their normal obsession with China, India and latitudinal thinking. The next area of major war is not likely to be the Middle East, the Indian Ocean or the South China Sea, due to traditional security balancing, deterrence and economic interests in each of these areas. Multipolarity naturally brings the possibility of war. Mearsheimer contends that war is far more likely in multipolar systems for three reasons: First, there are more opportunities for war, because there are more potential conflict dyads in a multipolar system. Second, imbalances of power are more commonplace in a multipolar world, and thus great powers are more likely to have the capability to win a war, making deterrence more difficult and war more likely. Third, the potential for miscalculation is greater in multipolarity: states might think they have the capabil- ity to coerce or conquer another state when, in fact, they do not.40 Presently, there is little reason to believe that tension and strategic posturing will lead to the outbreak of war in the near future. That said, as America’s influence continuesto wane, other states have shown their desire to take full advantage of the United States’ inability to control northern affairs. If the United States does lose its hegemony, which many commentators believe is inevitable, there will be at least four dyads in security calculations, with Russia, China and India entering the fray, and two of those states have Arctic borders and a historical legacy of conflict. Power imbalance in the Arctic is already apparent, with only Russia and the United States as great powers, while the other Arctic states are middle or minor powers with no hope of preventing a great power from doing as it pleases. Lastly, miscalculation is evident in the present context, as Sweden and Norway are both arming for possible Russian aggression, though Russia has shown little or no overtly aggressive tendencies towards Nordic nations. Unipolarity was not going to last forever, but as it fades the probability of northern conflict is ever increasing. The shift to hard power strategies, the effects of cli- mate change, and the decline of the United States all speak to the fact that multipolarity can increase levels of tension and mistrust, thus altering the currently stable nature of Arctic affairs.Efforts at Arctic governance through institutional binding or legal claims, as seen in the Arctic Council and UNCLOS, are able at present to mitigate the ongoing and ever increasing security competition in the high north, but as the system changes from unipolarity to multipolarity, constraining state behaviour becomes increasingly difficult. As such, observers must be mindful of the systemic variables at play when explaining and forecasting Arctic politics, as changes to the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.
Reject their defense- Russian military actions prove they won’t cooperate absent US presence
Huebert 10 – PhD, Professor of Political Science @ U of Calgary
Rob, “The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment,”http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf
It should be clear that the Russians have been according a growing importance to the Arctic ¶ region . They continually issue statements affirming their commitment to peaceful ¶ cooperation in the Arctic, which show up in the form of public statements by their leaders ¶ and in their primary documents. These same leaders are also very quick to condemn the ¶ actions of the other Arctic states as being aggressive and a threat to international peace and ¶ security in the region whenever they engage in any form of military related activity. It is clear, ¶ however, that the Russians have embarked on a much more assertive use of military force in ¶ the region by taking various action – the missile test launches near the pole, the sudden and ¶ substantial resumption of the long-range bomber patrols, and the voyages of their surface ¶ units into the disputed zones – which exceeds that of any of the other Arctic states. ¶ Furthermore, the Russians’ proposed rearmament plans greatly exceed the plans of any ¶ other Arctic state. Thus, the Russians have excelled at portraying themselves as cooperative ¶ while taking increasingly assertive action. The question remains as to why? Are they merely ¶ reasserting themselves as a global power, or, does this new action point to an increasingly ¶ assertive Russia? This is not known.

Diplomacy is insufficient to prevent conflict
Tassinari 9/7 (Fabrizio Tassinari is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, September 7, 2012, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”, http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/)
The geopolitics of the Arctic are stuck in a paradox: The more regional players restate the importance of international cooperation, the more some pundits and policymakers seem to conclude that the Arctic risks descending into competition and even conflict. The world is awakening to the growing strategic importance of the High North. As the Arctic ice melts due to global warming, it opens up new opportunities, from shorter shipping lanes to newly accessible oil and gas reserves; respectively, about 13 percent and 30 percent of the world’s undiscovered resources are in the Arctic, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. These discoveries are usually followed by declarations of the littoral nations to the effect that any potential disagreements over them will be resolved peacefully. However, beneath expressions of goodwill, the Arctic debate is often characterized by a sense of urgency, and even forms of alarmism. In recent years, instances of growing securitization of the Arctic have abounded. Back in 2008, a paper by Javier Solana, then the EU’s foreign policy’s chief, and the European Commission warned about “potential conflict over resources in Polar regions” as they become exploitable due to melting ice. In 2010, NATO’s supreme allied commander in Europe, Adm. James Stavridis, argued that “for now, the disputes in the North have been dealt with peacefully, but climate change could alter the equilibrium.” Then there are actions that speak louder than prepared speeches — from the famous August 2007 expedition that planted a Russian flag on the North Pole’s seabed to the annual summer military exercises carried out by Canada to assert its sovereignty in the North. Although the Russian stunt was most likely aimed at nationalist domestic audiences, some observers view these exercises as the expressions of competing national interests. As the scholar Scott Borgerson ominously put it: “The Arctic powers are fast approaching diplomatic gridlock, and that could eventually lead to the sort of armed brinkmanship that plagues other territories.” The geopolitical constellation in and around the region provides a ready justification for such an assessment. While no-one really imagines the United States, Canada, Norway, and Denmark fighting over the Arctic, some of their politicians have occasionally framed rhetoric in more peppered terms than one might expect. Russia, the fifth Arctic littoral nation, typically treads a fine line between declarations of cooperation and an innate instinct for great-power competition. Add to that the EU, which is seeking to carve its own role, and Asia’s giants, above all China, for which the opening of the Northeast passage may reduce sailing distance with Europe by some 40 percent, and it is not hard to conjure up the prospect of an Arctic race building up.

===Contention Two- Naval Power=== 
Two Internal links:
First is Force Readiness- waterways are critical to US naval power- allow for force deployment- that aff and Arctic waterways are key
Weitz 11 (Dr. Richard Weitz- Richard Weitz is a Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at Hudson Institute. His current research includes regional security developments relating to Europe, Eurasia, and East Asia as well as U.S. foreign, defense, homeland security, and WMD nonproliferation policies. Dr. Weitz also is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Project on National Security Reform (PNSR), where he overseas case study research, and a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), where he contributes to various defense projects- Before joining Hudson, Dr. Weitz worked for the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the Defense Science Board, DFI International, Inc., the Center for Strategic Studies, the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, and the U.S. Department of Defense. Dr. Weitz is a graduate of Harvard College (B.A. with Highest Honors in Government), the London School of Economics (M.Sc. in International Relations), Oxford University (M.Phil. in Politics), and Harvard University (Ph.D. in Political Science). He is proficient in Russian, French, and German, August 16 2011, “Maritime Power and Grand Strategy”, http://www.sldinfo.com/maritime-power-and-grand-strategy/)
An effective grand strategy requires appropriate and adequate tools and resources to carry it out. Sea power is an essential instrument of any effective grand strategy. Despite some difference in emphasis and focus, the speakers—including Hudson’s own Seth Cropsey—generally made the following points about how the U.S. Navy (there was less discussion of the Marine Corps and the Coast Guard) contributes to the realization of U.S, national interests. For reasons of geography, commerce, and security, the United States must command the seas and ensure the security of global sea lines of communication: 70% of the world’s surface consists of water, 80% of the world’s population lives within a few hundred miles of the oceans, and 90% of U.S. commerce moves on the world’s oceans. Sustaining U.S. military power in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East requires providing supplies and support by sea, including the tactical employment of carrier-based aircraft and the use of amphibious assault forces and naval gunfire support. The United States depends on the world’s oceans to move people and goods to and from the U.S. homeland. The 2005 U.S. National Strategy for Maritime Security points out that, “The right of vessels to travel freely in international waters, engage in innocent and transit passage, and have access to ports is an essential element of national security. The free, continuing, unthreatened intercourse of nations is an essential global freedom and helps ensure the smooth operation of the world’s economy.” The U.S. Navy’s global presence ensures U.S. access and freedom of action throughout the world. Forward-deployed U.S. naval forces promote regional stability by deterring potential aggressors-from nation states to pirates–and reassuring allies. Both adversaries and friends constantly notice and measure the flow of highly visible U.S. warships to their neighborhood. Sea power is unique in its responsiveness, flexibility, and adaptability. Naval expeditionary forces can swiftly respond to crises—including as what are variously defined as “forcible-entry” or “assured-access” operations–without requiring a costly, sizeable, or permanent footprint ashore in advance. They also are not constrained by claims of national sovereignty, no matter how exaggerated. Naval packages, including their Marine component, are modular in nature. Not only can their size be optimized to the situation at hand, but they can be easily moved closer to, or further away from, targets of influence. The great U.S naval power theorist, Alfred Thayer Mahan, described sea power as “more silent than the clash of arms,” yet as influential as it is quiet. Since World War II, U.S. maritime power has been so benign and effective that many other countries have declined to develop their own navies. U.S. naval superiority has been so overwhelming that it has also dissuaded most potential rivals from even considering a naval challenge. U.S. naval power has foreclosed strategic options for these states. The U.S. Navy has not had even to fight a sea battle since World War II thanks to its uncontested supremacy. U.S. naval supremacy gives the United States an unparalleled asymmetric advantage. Naval forces can achieve strategic, operational, and tactical gains while minimizing U.S. vulnerabilities. History shows that the world economy needs a dominant naval power to protect global sea lines, fight piracy, and otherwise keep vital sea lanes open for all to use. When naval dominance exists, it is often taken for granted since sea power is not a variable of most economic equations or models. But the absence of a dominant naval power is clearly noted, since it leads to rising threats to this vital global commons as well as arms races and sometimes wars between existing and emerging naval powers. Through its emphasis on commerce and avoiding large standing armies, sea power also promotes democratic freedoms. The U.S. Navy is a core member of America’s national security team. Nothing empowers American diplomats more than having a fleet of aircraft carriers capable of showing the flag throughout the world. Sometimes exerting influence requires having military power in the foreground rather than the background. Naval forces can be deployed and redeployed on the high seas as needed without requiring anyone’s permission. They highlight the benign face of the United States by conveying humanitarian assistance and disaster relief following a crisis. U.S. strategic submarines provide a core element of America’s nuclear deterrent thanks to their ability to remain concealed underwater before possibly launching their long-range nuclear-armed ballistic missiles at distant targets. As Deptula noted, “Sea control isn’t just accomplished with ships anymore, and air control isn’t carried out just by aircraft. The air and maritime domains are seamlessly interconnected.” Like air power, naval power is essential for the United States to undertake offshore balancing and counter threats to allies through extended deterrence. Both tools of grand strategy support the core U.S. national security goals of curbing nuclear proliferation, managing emerging near-peer competitors, sustaining strategic alliances, maintaining open access to the global commons and key natural resources, and defending the U.S. homeland. The American people have lost interest in long-term nation building projects or waging protracted counterinsurgencies. This sentiment, which is unlikely to change son, has made it more important to be able to provide “over-the-horizon” military power to U.S. allies, including new ones like the governments of Iraq and Afghanistan, through air and naval power. The Arab Spring is threatening to deprive the U.S. military of many facilities in the Middle East, requiring a buildup of offshore capabilities. The upheavals in those countries have already led to an upsurge in refugees from North Africa fleeing across the Mediterranean into Southern Europe. Anticipated global trends in economics, demographics, resources, and climate change will if anything increase the demand for maritime power and influence. The world’s waterways will remain the most efficient means for transporting goods. The world’s poor may be inspired by the success of the Somali pirates and become buccaneers preying on the world’s commercial fleets. The proliferation of ballistic missile arsenals throughout the could well require purchasing many additional missile-defense ships. And several SLD articles have already underscored the opportunities and challenges that are emerging with the thawing of the Arctic ice. Among other things, this development is making accessible the natural resources under its waters and broadening opportunities for global commerce through northern seas. But this access could be contested, and states will need sea power to enforce their claims. As other SLD articles have noted, the United States urgently needs to reconstitute its Coast Guard icebreaker fleet. Otherwise, it may need to rely on Russia for this capacity, adding to existing U.S. dependence on Russia for manned space flight vehicles. Unfortunately, U.S. maritime supremacy is threatened by two developments. First, China and other countries are challenging U.S. dominance through innovative tactics and lavish spending. Second, excessive U.S. budget stringency is undermining the sinews of U.S. naval strength. Pentagon planners worry that Iran, China, Iran, and other adversaries are developing “asymmetric” capabilities that employ innovative means and tactics to circumvent U.S. maritime dominance. These include “anti-access strategies” designed to hobble the U.S. Navy’s ability to project and sustain combat power in a region and “area-denial strategies” that seek to constrain U.S. maritime freedom of action. The Peoples’ Republic of China is not neglecting the importance of sea power even if congressional budget cutters might. The Chinese have acquired several of the world’s largest shipping companies. They are also constructing a network of facilities and supporting bases in the Indo-Pacific region—sometimes called a “string of pearls”—to support an expansion of their naval power to that domain. Now the Chinese are developing a fleet of aircraft carriers top project power throughout the world. One problem with navies is that they are capital-intensive and therefore very expensive. Naval capabilities must be purchased even in peacetime, when their value is typically underappreciated. It takes years to construct modern warships, though they normally remain operational for decades if properly maintained, which also is expensive. Furthermore, sailors require extensive training and support. Yet, the size of the U.S. Navy has been cut in half since the 1980s. Paying for the Navy is an insurance policy to avert threats to global commerce, avert regional conflicts, and forestall other disasters. And forward deployed naval forces can promote partnerships with local allies and help build their capacity. Through their collective efforts, they can minimize challenges to the international maritime order such as deterring pirates and dissuading potentially hostile states from developing their own navies. Such a cooperative approach to maritime security leverages the investment in the U.S. Navy manifold.

Force deployment creates a super-deterrent that prevents conflict escalation
Lyons, 13 -- retired Navy admiral
[James, commander in chief of the U.S. Pacific Fleet and senior U.S. military representative to the United Nations, "Where are the carriers?" Washington Times, 1-15-13, l/n, accessed 1-22-13, mss]

To keep pressure on and raise the level of deterrence, movement of naval forces, particularly carrier strike groups, must remain unpredictable. In a deteriorating crisis situation, our Navy gains maximum impact by moving the carrier strike group into the crisis area. That sends a special signal of our intent to respond to our potential enemies and to our allies as well. Such a signal has a telling effect on our regional allies and encourages them to employ their air force and naval assets in a coordinated manner, which certainly should raise the deterrent equation.

Second is shipbuilding- the plan revitalizes the industry
O'Rourke 10 (Ronald- Naval specialist and congressional consultant, 9/29, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: ¶ Background, Issues, and Options for Congress”, http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc29706/m1/1/high_res_d/RL34391_2010Sep29.pdf)
The status of the U.S. shipbuilding industrial base, particularly the part that builds military ships
for the U.S. government, has been a concern in Congress and elsewhere since the early 1990s,
following the end of the cold war, when the rate of Navy shipbuilding declined substantially. Concern has focused on, among other things, whether the total amount of work being received by ¶ shipyards is sufficient to maintain their financial health and to preserve key design and ¶ construction skills. Other things held equal, construction of one or more new polar icebreakers for ¶ the Coast Guard could increase workloads at the yard or yards involved in their construction for a ¶ period of a few or several years.
And, a strong maritime and shipbuilding industry is a vital pre requisite to credible naval capabilities
Alberto, et al., 5 (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)
In conclusion, our study found that the tremendous advantage the US enjoys in naval power directly supports our national security through global power projection and maintaining freedom of the seas. Our ability to build large, highly capable naval ships is a vital part of our naval superiority and is therefore inexorably linked to our national security. The US must maintain it lead in naval power by protecting its domestic shipbuilding industry. It is our conclusion that the number one issue facing the American military shipbuilder today is the uncertainty in future orders for ship construction. The year to year fluctuation in the projected naval order book adds uncertainty for the shipbuilder wanting to invest in capital and labor improvement, and adds cost to the vessels actually being delivered. This fluctuation is exacerbated when the US Navy cancels entire ship classes or severely limits procurement of vessels that have been programs of record, programs which the shipbuilders have used to make labor and capital investment decisions. We feel it is imperative for the Navy to identify the force of the future and commit to a stable procurement plan to implement that force. The concept of Seabasing must mature at least to the point where the major yards can invest in the infrastructure necessary to build the force. In this area, we also conclude that the requirement for full funding of naval vessels in the year of authorization hampers the ability of the Navy and the industry to maintain a steady shipbuilding plan. It is apparent to us that the US Navy shipbuilding program is often used as a “bill payer” for other DoD priorities. In addition to the reality that the money is not obligated in the year of funding, the temptation to use the US Navy shipbuilding account to pay current year expenses is greater if significant procurement dollars are available to pay the full cost of individual ships. While we are convinced the nation must maintain sufficient shipbuilding capacity to allow for surge in national emergencies, we feel that the current and projected naval order book does not support the capacity being carried by the six largest shipyards. Restructuring of the industrial base is necessary. This restructuring may entail the politically difficult decision to allow some yards to close, but if the naval order book does not increase and the restructuring does not occur, unit cost will continue to skyrocket out of proportion to the value to the nation of the vessel.


Naval power deters great power war and prevents multiple extinction scenarios
Conway, Roughead, and Allen, 7- *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf,)

This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower to influence actions and activities at sea and ashore. The expeditionary character and versatility of maritime forces provide the U.S. the asymmetric advantage of enlarging or contracting its military footprint in areas where access is denied or limited. Permanent or prolonged basing of our military forces overseas often has unintended economic, social or political repercussions. The sea is a vast maneuver space, where the presence of maritime forces can be adjusted as conditions dictate to enable flexible approaches to escalation, de-escalation and deterrence of conflicts. The speed, flexibility, agility and scalability of maritime forces provide 6755 joint or combined force commanders a range of options for responding to crises. Additionally, integrated maritime operations, either within formal alliance structures (such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization) or more informal arrangements (such as the Global Maritime Partnership initiative), send powerful messages to would-be aggressors that we will act with others to ensure collective security and prosperity. United States seapower will be globally postured to secure our homeland and citizens from direct attack and to advance our interests around the world. As our security and prosperity are inextricably linked with those of others, U.S. maritime forces will be deployed to protect and sustain the peaceful global system comprised of interdependent networks of trade, finance, information, law, people and governance. We will employ the global reach, persistent presence, and operational flexibility inherent in U.S. seapower to accomplish six key tasks, or strategic imperatives. Where tensions are high or where we wish to demonstrate to our friends and allies our commitment to security and stability, U.S. maritime forces will be characterized by regionally concentrated, forward-deployed task forces with the combat power to limit regional conflict, deter major power war, and should deterrence fail, win our Nation’s wars as part of a joint or combined campaign. In addition, persistent, mission-tailored maritime forces will be globally distributed in order to contribute to homeland defense-in-depth, foster and sustain cooperative relationships with an expanding set of international partners, and prevent or mitigate disruptions and crises. Credible combat power will be continuously postured in the Western Pacific and the Arabian Gulf/Indian Ocean to protect our vital interests, assure our friends and allies of our continuing commitment to regional security, and deter and dissuade potential adversaries and peer competitors. This combat power can be selectively and rapidly repositioned to meet contingencies that may arise elsewhere. These forces will be sized and postured to fulfill the following strategic imperatives: Limit regional conflict with forward deployed, decisive maritime power. Today regional conflict has ramifications far beyond the area of conflict. Humanitarian crises, violence spreading across borders, pandemics, and the interruption of vital resources are all possible when regional crises erupt. While this strategy advocates a wide dispersal of networked maritime forces, we cannot be everywhere, and we cannot act to mitigate all regional conflict. Where conflict threatens the global system and our national interests, maritime forces will be ready to respond alongside other elements of national and multi-national power, to give political leaders a range of options for deterrence, escalation and de-escalation. Maritime forces that are persistently present and combat-ready provide the Nation’s primary forcible entry option in an era of declining access, even as they provide the means for this Nation to respond quickly to other crises. Whether over the horizon or powerfully arrayed in plain sight, maritime forces can deter the ambitions of regional aggressors, assure friends and allies, gain and maintain access, and protect our citizens while working to sustain the global order. Critical to this notion is the maintenance of a powerful fleet—ships, aircraft, Marine forces, and shore-based fleet activities—capable of selectively controlling the seas, projecting power ashore, and protecting friendly forces and civilian populations from attack.Deter major power war. No other disruption is as potentially disastrous to global stability as war among major powers. Maintenance and extension of this Nation’s comparative seapower advantage is a key component of deterring major power war. While war with another great power strikes many as improbable, the near-certainty of its ruinous effects demands that it be actively deterred using all elements of national power. The expeditionary character of maritime forces—our lethality, global reach, speed, endurance, ability to overcome barriers to access, and operational agility—provide the joint commander with a range of deterrent options. We will pursue an approach to deterrence that includes a credible and scalable ability to retaliate against aggressors conventionally, unconventionally, and with nuclear forces.
===Contention Three- Methane=== 
Arctic is the main area of methane release- release would cause an irreversible tipping point
Duarte and Huertas 10/18 (Carlos Duarte, University of Western Australia
and Antonio Delgado Huertas, Spanish Scientific Research Council CSIC, 10/18/2012, “Methane hydrates: a volatile time bomb in the Arctic”, http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/10/methane-hydrates-a-volatile-time-bomb-in-the-arctic.html)
The risk with climate change is not with the direct effect of humans on the greenhouse capacity of Earth’s atmosphere. The major risk is that the relatively modest human perturbation will unleash much greater forces. The likelihood of this risk is intimately tied to the developments over the next decade in the Arctic. Accelerating ice loss and warming of the Arctic is disturbing evidence that dangerous climate change is already with us. As I have argued earlier, now that we have realised this our efforts should be directed at managing the situation in the Arctic and avoiding the spread of dangerous climate change elsewhere. The Arctic is a core component of the earth system. Six of the 14 climate change tipping points of the earth system are located in the Arctic region. Whereas the term tipping point was initially introduced to the climate change debate in a metaphoric manner, it has since been formalised and introduced in the context of systems exhibiting rapid, climate-driven change, such as the Arctic. Tipping points have been defined in the context of earth system science as the critical point in forcing at which the future state of the system is qualitatively altered. Tipping elements are defined, accordingly, as the structural components of the system directly responsible for triggering abrupt changes once a tipping point is passed. This is because they can be switched into a qualitatively different state by small perturbations. Of the many tipping elements in the Arctic, that with potentially greatest consequences if perturbed is the vast methane deposit. Methane is a greenhouse gas. A molecule of methane has 20 times the greenhouse effect of a CO₂ molecule, and the release of methane has been linked to climatic transitions along the history of planet Earth. The Arctic contains vast reserves of methane stored as methane hydrate, a gel-like substance formed by methane molecules trapped in frozen water. The methane hydrate deposits are estimated at between 1,000 and 10,000 Gigatons (109 tons) of CO₂-equivalents as methane, much of which is present in the shallow sediments of the extensive Arctic shelves. This amount of greenhouse gas is several times the total CO₂ release since the industrial revolution. Even moderate (a few degrees C) warming of the overlying waters may change the state of methane from hydrates to methane gas, which would be released to the atmosphere. If this release is gradual, methane will add a greenhouse effect to the atmosphere. This will only be temporary, as it will be oxidised to CO₂, with a decline in the greenhouse effect of 20-fold per unit carbon. However, if the state shift is abrupt it may lead to a massive release of methane to the atmosphere, which could cause a climatic jump several-fold greater than the accumulated effect of anthropogenic activity. Recent assessments have found bubbling of methane on the Siberian shelf. Models suggest that global warming of 3°C could release between 35 and 94 Gt C of methane, which could add up to an additional 0.5°C of global warming. Moreover, frozen soils and sediments contain large amounts of methane hydrates that can be released to the atmosphere. Indeed, rapid thawing of the Arctic permaforst has been reported to lead to the release of large amounts of methane. In our most recent cruise this summer (June 2012) along the Fram Strait and Svalbard Islands we found concentrations of methane in the atmosphere of about 1.65 ppm. However our equilibrium experiments (air atmospheric with Arctic surface water) reached values that were generally between 2.5 ppm and 10 ppm, with maximum values up to 35 ppm. These results confirm that this area of the planet is emitting large amounts of methane into the atmosphere. Understanding and forecasting the response of Arctic methane hydrate deposits to rapid warming and thawing in the Arctic is of the utmost importance. Provided the magnitude of these risks, and those associated with other tipping elements in the Arctic, our collective response to climate change appears to be a careless walk on the razor edge.


Only extraction solves methane
Cohen ‘10 MBA, B.Sc., (Chem. Eng.) PR.Eng. Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd. (Dave, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517]])

Well, of course, this makes sense. We wouldn't want to inadvertently disturb a big patch of methane hydrates, which might lead to the release of a shitload of gas into the water column, which would eventually lead to its bubbling out of the sea and into the atmosphere. You see, if the methane in ocean floor hydrates gets loose, that's much, much worse than if we successfully capture it, pipe it somewhere and burn it. In this latter case, we only get the carbon emissions from burning the "pure" natural gas (CH4), not the full-blown greenhouse effects of unadulterated methane in the atmosphere, which converts to CO2 over time there—it's 25 times more potent per molecule [as a greenhouse gas] than carbon dioxide on a 100-year basis. Methane hydrates are stable under low temperatures and high pressures. So, I guess you could say that by capturing & burning the natural gas in ocean floor hydrates, we would be actually saving the planet from the future ruin we might incur if the deep oceans were to warm sufficiently—due to the burning of fossil fuels like natural gas—to cause natural degassing.


Extraction tech works- recent Department of Energy tests proves
DOE 5/2/12 (Department of Energy, May 5 2012, “U.S. and Japan Complete Successful Field Trial of Methane Hydrate Production Technologies”, http://energy.gov/articles/us-and-japan-complete-successful-field-trial-methane-hydrate-production-technologies)
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu announced today the completion of a successful, unprecedented test of technology in the North Slope of Alaska that was able to safely extract a steady flow of natural gas from methane hydrates – a vast, entirely untapped resource that holds enormous potential for U.S. economic and energy security. Building upon this initial, small-scale test, the Department is launching a new research effort to conduct a long-term production test in the Arctic as well as research to test additional technologies that could be used to locate, characterize and safely extract methane hydrates on a larger scale in the U.S. Gulf Coast. “The Energy Department’s long term investments in shale gas research during the 70s and 80s helped pave the way for today’s boom in domestic natural gas production that is projected to cut the cost of natural gas by 30 percent by 2025 while creating thousands of American jobs,” said Secretary Chu. “While this is just the beginning, this research could potentially yield significant new supplies of natural gas.” What are Methane Hydrates? Methane hydrates are 3D ice-lattice structures with natural gas locked inside, and are found both onshore and offshore – including under the Arctic permafrost and in ocean sediments along nearly every continental shelf in the world. The substance looks remarkably like white ice, but it does not behave like ice. When methane hydrate is “melted,” or exposed to pressure and temperature conditions outside those where it is stable, the solid crystalline lattice turns to liquid water, and the enclosed methane molecules are released as gas. Successful Field Test on the Alaska North Slope The Department of Energy has partnered with ConocoPhillips and the Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation to conduct a test of natural gas extraction from methane hydrate using a unique production technology, developed through laboratory collaboration between the University of Bergen, Norway, and ConocoPhillips. This ongoing, proof-of-concept test commenced on February 15, 2012, and concluded on April 10. The team injected a mixture of carbon dioxide (CO2) and nitrogen into the formation, and demonstrated that this mixture could promote the production of natural gas. Ongoing analyses of the extensive datasets acquired at the field site will be needed to determine the efficiency of simultaneous CO2 storage in the reservoirs. This test was the first ever field trial of a methane hydrate production methodology whereby CO2 was exchanged in situ with the methane molecules within a methane hydrate structure. As part of this exchange demonstration, the depressurization (i.e., production through decreasing pressure of the deposit) phase of the test extended for 30 days. The prior longest-duration field test of methane hydrate extraction via depressurization was six days (Japan-Canada 2007/2008 Mallik well testing program). This testing will provide critical information to advance the Department’s efforts to evaluate various potential gas hydrate production technologies. The next stages of the Department’s research effort will be aimed in part at evaluating gas hydrate production over longer durations, likely through depressurization, with the eventual goal of making sustained production economically viable. While this may take years to accomplish, the same could be said of the early shale gas research and technology demonstration efforts that the Department backed in the 1970s and 1980s. A New Research Effort Today, the Department is announcing two major new steps in the overall methane hydrate research effort: 1) The Department is making $6.5 million available in Fiscal Year 2012 Funding Opportunity Announcement for research into technologies to locate, characterize and safely extract natural gas from methane hydrate formations like those in the Arctic and along the U.S. Gulf Coast. Specifically, projects will address (1) deepwater gas hydrate characterization via direct sampling and/or remote sensing field programs; (2) new tools and methods for monitoring, collecting, and analyzing data to determine reservoir response and environmental impacts related to methane hydrate production; and (3) clarifying methane hydrates role in the environment, including responses to warming climates. 2) As part of the President’s budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2013, the Department is requesting an additional $5 million to further gas hydrates research both domestically, and in collaboration with international partners. The exact nature of that research effort will be determined in the coming months; however, a longer duration test of methane hydrate extraction on the North Slope on an existing gravel bed pad that can accommodate year-round operations is envisioned. Such an effort would again require engaging private sector and international partners.
Icebreakers are key to extraction
Hargreaves 7/19/12 (Steve Hargreaves- staff writer for CNNMoney.com, where he focuses on the energy industry, July 19 2012, “Oil: Only part of the Arctic's massive resources”, http://money.cnn.com/2012/07/17/news/economy/Arctic-oil/index.htm)
NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- When Royal Dutch Shell sinks five wells off Alaska -- slated for next month -- it will be the first drilling in U.S. Arctic waters in decades. Yet it will be just the latest in a slow-moving but steady push to tap the Arctic's vast natural resources. Encouraged by high commodity prices and shrinking sea ice, everyone from Big Oil to the cruise industry is eager to get in on the Arctic's riches. Oil and Gas: Perhaps the most high profile of the Arctic's natural resources, oil and natural gas also seem to be the most plentiful. Nearly 13% of the world's undiscovered oil reserves and 30% of its undiscovered gas reserves lie north of the Arctic circle, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. That's 90 billion barrels of oil and 1,670 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Those estimates don't even include so-called unconventional oil and gas deposits such as hydrocarbons found in shale rock or methane hydrates on the sea floor -- which are basically crystals filled with natural gas. Finding themselves increasingly locked out of resource-rich nations such as Mexico, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, the world's major international oil companies are eying this potential Arctic bounty as a source for future growth. Shell's Alaska operations are garnering most of the headlines this summer, but the U.K.'s Cairn Energy has already drilled off the coast of Arctic Greenland. Norway's Statoil (STO) is exploring in the Barents Sea, where Chevron (CVX, Fortune 500) also has leased acreage. And Exxon Mobil (XOM, Fortune 500) has struck a deal with Russia's Rosneft to drill in the Arctic off the Siberian coast. These and other deals have been announced in rapid succession over the last few years. But actually producing sizable quantities of oil from the Arctic will be a long, slow process. The region is utterly lacking in the infrastructure needed to build oil wells and move crude out: pipelines, deep water ports, airstrips, housing. Even which counties own what resources is in dispute. Dealing with the shifting Arctic ice is another challenge. Greenpeace to monitor Shell Arctic drilling with submarines The pressures created by massive ice sheets could crush traditional oil field equipment. Even subsurface pipelines and well heads could be obliterated by a deep iceberg moving in the shallow Arctic waters off Alaska. "There needs to be an evolution of technologies," said Surya Rajan, an oilfield technology analyst at IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates. It's not at all certain extracting this oil and gas can be done without significant damage to the natural environment and the livelihoods of the people that inhabit the region. So for now, Arctic oil development will proceed at a slow pace, in shallow water with drilling mostly confined to summer months -- much as Shell (RDSA) is planning with its Alaska wells. Even if Shell strikes oil next month, those wells would not be producing oil for several years. It may be a decade or more before major amounts of oil or gas flow from Arctic waters. Shipping: The melting Arctic is creating a tantalizing prospect for shipping companies: Keeping the northern sea passage between Europe and Asia permanently open. For decades ships have been able to traverse the Arctic along two sea routes. One hugs the Canadian coast and the other along the Russian side. Obama to allow more Arctic drilling These routes can cut the distance between Northern Europe and Japan nearly in half, according to a report by the Arctic Council, an organization made up of the eight Arctic nations and other stakeholders. Some estimate it could shave a millions dollars in costs off each trip. Arctic voyages could previously only take place during a short window in the summer, and often required expensive and scarce icebreakers to accompany the ships. That may be changing. Many scientists now estimate that the Arctic could be permanently ice-free in the summer by 2030. That could make the Arctic passable year round, and without requiring the services of an icebreaker.



Methane burst causes extinction- it’s comparatively worse than nuke war
Ryskin ‘3- Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering (Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003,[[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]])

METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION A liquid subject to gravity and completely or partially saturated with dissolved gas is, thermodynamically, in a metastable state. Consider for clarity the case when the concentration of the dissolved gas is only slightly below saturation throughout, and thus increases downward in accordance with Henry’s law. Then locally there is no tendency for the dissolved gas to exsolve (to form bubbles), in spite of the fact that nuclei are abundant in seawater. (Exsolution would lead to a slight increase in free energy: below saturation, the chemical potential of the gas species is lower in solution than in the free gas phase.) At the same time, the free energy of the system as a whole would be greatly reduced if most of the dissolved gas were to somehow escape from solution and collect above the liquid. (This free energy reduction is due to the fast decrease of the chemical potential of gas with a drop in pressure.) Thus, the system is in a metastable state, albeit an unusual one. Strictly speaking, this state is not an equilibrium one even locally: the increase of the solute concentration with depth causes a diffusion ﬂux directed upward, which, given sufﬁcient time, could bring the system into the above state of minimum free energy. However, the continuous supply of methane by the rising bubbles from the seaﬂoor ensures that the concentration proﬁle will remain nonuniform, slowly approaching the saturation one. Even if that supply were to cease, the diffusion time scales are so long that this path toward the global energy minimum can be ignored. A very fast transition from this metastable state can be triggered by disturbances that displace ﬂuid a ﬁnite distance in the vertical direction. Such disturbances may result from an earthquake, a seaﬂoor volcano, convection currents due to geothermal heating, or an internal gravity wave. Consider a parcel of ﬂuid that is displaced upward, and is now subject to lower hydrostatic pressure, to which corresponds a lower solubility value. As a result, the ﬂuid in the parcel is now supersaturated with the dissolved gas, which must begin to exsolve, forming tiny gas bubbles. (If the ﬂuid in its original position was only partially saturated, exsolution will begin after the parcel has risen through some signiﬁcant distance, so in this case the initial disturbance must be sufﬁciently large.) The volume of the ascending parcel of ﬂuid increases due to the formation of bubbles, making it more buoyant and accelerating its rise; this leads to further reduction in the ambient pressure, further exsolution of gas, and further increase in the volume of the parcel. This self-accelerating motion entrains the surrounding ﬂuid; exsolution of the gas in the latter reinforces the motion. The result is a violent eruption (Kling et al., 1987; Zhang, 1996). From the initial eruption site, hydrodynamic disturbances propagate in all directions (via turbulent entrainment and/or internal gravity waves), triggering eruptions at other sites. Similarly to transitions from other metastable states (e.g., boiling of a superheated liquid), the eruption should spread quickly throughout the region of the ocean where the water column is saturated, or partially saturated, with gas. In spite of the low solubility of methane in seawater, the total possible increase in the buoyancy of the parcel can be large. Consider a parcel that started its rise at 4 km depth, where solubility of methane is ;4.3 3 1023 . Then, if the parcel had a volume of 18 cm3 (1 mol of water) and was saturated with methane, it contained 4.3 3 1023 mol of dissolved methane. By the time this parcel has risen to the surface, essentially all the methane in the parcel has exsolved (solubility is ;2 3 1025 at the surface). At the surface conditions (T ø 25 8C, P 5 1 bar), 1 mol of any gas occupies 25 3 10 3 cm3 , so the total volume of methane in the parcel is ;108 cm3 , and the volume of the parcel, which now contains a mist of water droplets in gaseous methane, is 126 cm3 . That is, the volume of the parcel has increased by a factor of seven. Concurrent exsolution of other dissolved gases (e.g., carbon dioxide CO2 , hydrogen sulﬁde H2 S) will add to the effect. A rather similar process is responsible for the most violent, explosive volcanic eruptions (called Plinian), such as eruptions of Mount Vesuvius in A.D. 79 or Mount St. Helens in 1980. These eruptions are driven by exsolution of gases (primarily water vapor) dissolved in the liquid magma. In Lake Nyos (Cameroon), CO2 of magmatic origin enters the water column from the bottom, at a depth of ;200 m. In 1986, the lake erupted, creating a gas-water fountain ;120 m in height (Zhang, 1996), and releasing a lethal cloud of CO2 . A water surge washed up the shore to a height of ;25 m. The eruption continued for several hours (Kling et al., 1987). OCEANIC ERUPTION AS A CAUSE OF MASS EXTINCTION The consequences of a methane-driven oceanic eruption for marine and terrestrial life are likely to be catastrophic. Figuratively speaking, the erupting region ‘‘boils over,’’ ejecting a large amount of methane and other gases (e.g., CO2 , H2 S) into the atmosphere, and ﬂooding large areas of land. Whereas pure methane is lighter than air, methane loaded with water droplets is much heavier, and thus spreads over the land, mixing with air in the process (and losing water as rain). The air methane mixture is explosive at methane concentrations between 5% and 15%; as such mixtures form in different locations near the ground and are ignited by lightning, explosions 2 and conﬂagrations destroy most of the terrestrial life, and also produce great amounts of smoke and of carbon dioxide. Firestorms carry smoke and dust into the upper atmosphere, where they may remain for several years (Turco et al., 1991); the resulting darkness and global cooling may provide an additional kill mechanism. Conversely, carbon dioxide and the remaining methane create the greenhouse effect, which may lead to global warming. The outcome of the competition between the cooling and the warming tendencies is difﬁcult to predict (Turco et al., 1991; Pierrehumbert, 2002). Upon release of a signiﬁcant portion of the dissolved methane, the ocean settles down, and the entire sequence of events (i.e., development of anoxia, accumulation of dissolved methane, the metastable state, eruption) begins anew. No external cause is required to bring about a methane-driven eruption—its mechanism is self-contained, and implies that eruptions are likely to occur repeatedly at the same location. Because methane is isotopically light, its fast release must result in a negative carbon isotope excursion in the geological record. Knowing the magnitude of the excursion, one can estimate the amount of methane that could have produced it. Such calculations (prompted by the methane-hydrate-dissociation model, but equally applicable here) have been performed for several global events in the geological record; the results range from ;10 18 to 10 19 g of released methane (e.g., Katz et al., 1999; Kennedy et al., 2001; de Wit et al., 2002). These are very large amounts: the total carbon content of today’s terrestrial biomass is ;2 3 10 18 g. Nevertheless, relatively small regions of the deep ocean could contain such amounts of dissolved methane; e.g., the Black Sea alone (volume ;0.4 3 1023 of the ocean total; maximum depth only 2.2 km) could hold, at saturation, ;0.5 3 10 18 g. A similar region of the deep ocean could contain much more (the amount grows quadratically with depth 3 ). Released in a geological instant (weeks, perhaps), 10 18 to 10 19 g of methane could destroy the terrestrial life almost entirely. Combustion and explosion of 0.75 3 10 19 g of methane would liberate energy equivalent to 10 8 Mt of TNT, ;10,000 times greater than the world’s stockpile of nuclear weapons, implicated in the nuclearwinter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).

Methane bursts come first – it’s empirically more likely and could happen at any second
Dorritie 7 (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,”Killer in our Midst, 2007,[[http://www.killerinourmidst.com/]])
Deep beneath the surface of the sea, buried in the oxygen-depleted muds that have accumulated over the ages on the underwater margins of the continents, lies a vast store of natural gas that probably well exceeds, in its carbon equivalence, the entire supply of all other oil, gas, and coal on the planet. Most of this immense store of natural gas, largely comprised of methane, lies trapped in icy cages called hydrates. Below these hydrates is a huge quantity of methane as free gas bubbles, blocked from release by the hydrate, and temperature and pressure conditions above. Still more methane, as hydrate, is found in the permanently frozen (permafrost) regions that surround the poles. Methane is a much more powerful greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, the gas which is currently warming our globe, even though methane remains in the atmosphere for a much shorter time. If released abruptly, seafloor methane has the potential to deliver a stunning jolt of heat to the planet's already increasing temperatures. Even if released more gradually, seafloor methane will inevitably compound the problem of global warming. But abruptly or gradually, as we warm the planet by our dumping of carbon dioixde into the atmosphere, the seafloor will also warm, and its methane will inevitably be released. This book is about the release of that methane, and, in particular, about the possibility of methane catastrophe. Methane catastrophes have occurred several times in Earth's history, and when they have occurred, they have sometimes caused abrupt changes in the history of life, and at least one significant extinction. That extinction, at the end of the Permian Period 250 million years ago, is the greatest in the history of life. More than 90% of the then-existing species perished, and the course of life on Earth was altered forever. If a methane catastrophe were to happen in the near future, it is likely that not only would a considerable percentage of existing plants and animals be killed off, but a large percentage of the human population as well, as a result of the climate change and significantly more hostile environmental conditions. Yet we may well be heading toward such a catastrophe, produced by our warming of the planet. Just how rapidly seafloor methane will be released depends on numerous factors that are quite difficult to assess. It is possible that seafloor methane will be released so slowly that it will only have a relatively minor warming effect on Earth's climate. On the other hand, because the coming methane release will be the result of our warming of the planet via the burning of fossil and other acrbon fuels, it could happen much more quickly. Indeed, it seems that we are currently pumping the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide into the atmosphere at a much faster -- perhaps tens to hundreds of times faster -- rate than has ever before naturally occurred in the last half billion years or so of the Earth's history. The catastrophic warming we are causing is -- to the best of our knowledge -- unprecedented since the early days of our planet, billions of years ago. Such warming could well lead to methane catastrophe. The onset of a methane catastrophe would be abrupt because it could be initiated by a major submarine landslide, which can happen in a matter of days or even hours, or by the venting of vast quantities of seafloor methane over a period of decades. These events can take place in what is essentially a geological eyeblink. Additional slumping and/or venting can continue for centuries to millennia. The amount of methane that can be released is indeed massive. Estimates of the amount of seafloor methane generally range from about 5000 billion metric tons to around 20,000 billion metric tons (a metric ton is equal to 1.1 imperial tons, the standard ton used in the United States), though they usually range around 10,000 billion metric tons. This amount of methane contains about 7500 billion metric tons of carbon, vastly more than all the estimated carbon in all fossil fuels: petroleum, coal, and natural gas. There is a simple way to put 10,000 billion metric tons of methane into perspective: it contains about ten times the amount of carbon (largely in the form of carbon dioxide) as does the entire atmosphere. Moreover, though methane entering the atmosphere is quickly oxidized, it is oxidized to carbon dioxide, so the problem of its warming ability will remain with us for thousands of years into the future. A methane catastrophe, therefore, is an abrupt surge of greenhouse gas that could rival or exceed the carbon dioxide warming of the planet. It could potentially overwhelm the natural heat regulatory system of the Earth, which operates in a much more gradual way, and on a much more protracted time scale. The quantity of methane that could be released is so massive there would be no remedial action that people would be able to take to mitigate it except in the most superficial way. Once a methane catastrophe were to begin, there would be major consequences for the planet and its inhabitants, human and other, and we would be able to do little except wait it out. Methane, in a very real sense, is the joker in the deck of global warming. As with the current increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide, a large methane release will undoubtedly contribute to an increase in acid rain, and, through its impact on global warming, a further rise of sea level, increased desertification, increased heavy precipitation, and extreme weather events. The slowing of ocean circulation or its actual stagnation because of greater planetary warmth are also possibilities. Such a slowing would paradoxically produce a decreased transport of warm water to the coasts of northeastern North America and northernmost Europe, making for much colder winters. In addition, the destabilization of methane within seafloor sediments can send 20 meter (60 foot) high tsunamis crashing into nearby coastlines. A methane catastrophe can have other major consequences in addition to sudden global warming. It can accelerate the slow but deadly acidification of the surface ocean (down to about 100 meters, or about 300 feet), which is now occurring as a result of the increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and ocean. The methane can combine with dissolved oceanic oxygen, depleting the deeper part of the ocean (that is, the ocean below about 100 meters) of oxygen, and killing off the oxygen-using (aerobic) organisms at those depths. As acidification penetrates the deep ocean, even organisms that do not use oxygen (anaerobes) will be affected. Then there are the worst case scenarios. With the warming of the world ocean, its chemical balance and biological composition will change. The ocean will become stratified, with mixing between its surface and the deep ocean becoming increasingly restricted. If the deep ocean becomes fully anoxic (devoid of oxygen), it will also become toxic, as the remaining anaerobic organisms pump out the deadly gas hydrogen sulfide. In sufficient quantities, that gas could escape oceanic confinement to poison the atmosphere and, combining with the iron in the blood's hemoglobin, kill terrestrial organisms, including us. But the composition of the atmosphere could also change in a second way, because the amount of free oxygen depends on two things: the actual production of oxygen (by the ocean's photosynthetic plankton and terrestrial green plants) and the delivery of large amounts of carbon (as part of a "rain" of organic debris from organisms closer to the surface) to the ocean's bottom. This carbon, if not removed from the global carbon cycle by sinking and eventual burial in the ocean floor, will combine with oxygen and lower its concentration in the atmosphere. Once oceanic anoxia kills off aerobic marine organisms (those which require oxygen to live), the natural regulatory system for carbon will be sent into a tailspin. The amount of organic debris produced in surface waters will likely be reduced, the amount that rapidly descends to the ocean floor will be reduced, and the proportion that gets decomposed on the way to the bottom will be significantly reduced. Exactly how this will play out is unclear, because certain of these changes will operate to slow the removal of carbon from the global carbon cycle (which will act to decrease the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere), while others will enhance it (increasing atmospheric oxygen). When a similar disruption of the marine ecosystem occurred at the end of the Permian, a quarter of a billion years ago, atmospheric oxygen dropped to a fraction (about 2/5ths) of its previous level. But increased oxygen could be just as bad: oxygen ions (sometimes referred to as free radicals) can inflict genetic damage to DNA, causing mutations and cancer. We are certainly on the verge of releasing a huge amount of permafrost and seafloor methane within a very short time; we may also be on the brink of methane catastrophe. By our own actions -- by our continuing and increasing use of carbon fuels -- we are slowly but inexorably creating the conditions during which a such a methane release, catastrophic or more gradual, could occur. We probably have time to prevent a catastrophe, but there is a certain non-negligible possibility that we have already crossed -- or will shortly cross -- an invisible threshold that will render a methane catastrophe inevitable and unstoppable. Major anthropogenic global warming by carbon dioxide and possible methane catastrophe will be events more cataclysmic than any that can befall Earth, except for an impact with a giant asteroid or comet, or a stellar explosion in our neighborhood of the Milky Way. These other events, however, are quite rare and unlikely in our immediate future. Major anthropogenic global warming by carbon dioxide and possible methane catastrophe, by contrast, are highly likely and much more immediate. More importantly, unlike those other possible cataclysms, both are preventable -- probably -- if we take them seriously, begin to understand them, and -- most difficult of all -- begin to take steps to avert them. It has become fashionable to dismiss predictions of catastrophe, partly because they have become so common. Many of us have become jaded, what with one such prediction after another. We used to hear a good deal about nuclear holocaust, or nuclear winter, but as those threats seem to have faded in the public consciousness, there are others which have replaced it. We now hear of doomsday asteroids, the ozone hole, SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome), bird flu, global warming, and the obliteration of species. The number of threats seems to be increasing. And, actually, that number is increasing. Prior to this epoch in human history, people simply did not have the ability to impact our planet in potentially catastrophic ways. Unfortunately, we now do have that ability. The ozone hole is a simple example. Never before was humanity on the verge of destroying this gaseous umbrella which protects us (and all other organisms that live at or near the surface of the Earth) from deadly ultraviolet light. Humanity simply didn't have that kind of power. But the advent of chloro-flouro-carbon (CFC) refrigerants gave us that ability, and the ozone layer sustained significant damage before the problem began to be addressed. Luckily, this is a problem for which there is a ready solution, and by banning the production of these ozone-harming chemicals, we have begun to bring the problem under control. The problem of carbon dioxide emissions, consequent global warming, and the prospect of a major seafloor methane release, however, will not be addressed so easily. We currently have no technology to trap and hold large quantities of carbon dioxide, and we are not likely to have such a technology for many decades in the future -- if indeed we ever will. Some of the excess carbon dioxide we produce is in fact currently slipping beyond our potential grasp, entering the oceans at the astounding rate of about a million metric tons (a metric ton = 1.1 standard ton) per hour, and increasing the acidity of seawater. There is, in addition, great resistance in a world economy driven and dominated by fossil fuels to shifting the energy base of that economy. Enormous corporate profits and personal fortunes, and the success of political efforts on their behalf, are also at stake. Slowing the stampede to catastrophically higher global temperatures and ocean destruction will require substantial international effort. Even so, should we today stop spewing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, global temperatures will continue to increase for some time into the future. Despite our aversion to warnings of imminent catastrophe, our problem may be that we are not alarmed enough. Because of the delayed consequences of our dumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, the major effects of global warming will only be starting just as the world supply of oil is well on its way to depletion (about 2050). But already startling environmental changes -- the early, "minor" effects of global warming -- are occurring on Earth: ·With the exception of 1996, the years from 1995 to 2004 constitute 9 of the 10 warmest years since systematic record keeping began in 1861. ·The year 2005 was the warmest year since records have been kept. The next warmest years, in order, are, 1998, 2002, 2003, and 2004. ·Globally, glaciers have retreated, on average, almost some 15% since 1850. Glacial retreat has been recorded in Tibet, Alaska, Peru, the Alps, Kenya, Antarctica. ·Alaskan temperatures have risen about 2.8°C (5°F) in the past few decades. ·In the past several decades, about 40% of Arctic Ocean sea ice has disappeared. (Some researchers now believe, however, that at least part of this sea ice loss may be due to changing wind patterns over the North Pole, but these wind changes, themselves, may be due to a warming climate.) ·Between 1965 and 1995, the amount of melt water from the Arctic region going into the North Atlantic was about 20,000 cubic kilometers (about 4800 cubic miles), the equivalent of the fresh water in all of the Great Lakes combined (Superior, Huron, Erie, and Ontario) with the exception of Lake Michigan. Preliminary calculations indicate that an additional 18,000 cubic kilometers (4300 cubic miles) or so could shut down ocean circulation in the North Atlantic. That shutdown could occur in two decades or less, though most scientists believe it will take much longer. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, comprised of thousands of climate scientists worldwide, puts the likely slowing at about 25% by 2100. ·Trade winds across the equatorial Pacific have slowed because of higher humidity, and are projected to do so even more as time passes. The increase in humidity is the result of increased evaporation, traceable to global warming. This slowing of Pacific winds will also slow the ocean surface currents that the winds push along. Some scientists fear that at some point "the switch will be tripped" and nutrient-rich bottom water will no longer rise to the surface in the eastern Pacific (a "permanent El Niño" situation which did exist about three million years ago). These waters feed the plankton which feed the anchovies in one of the world's greatest fisheries. Much of the anchovy harvest is dried, ground up, and added to chicken feed, of which it is a major protein constituent. If the switch does trip, good-bye to inexpensive chicken. ·Upper ocean temperatures have risen between 0.5 and 1.0°C (0.9 to 1.8°F) since 1960. Deeper water has also warmed, but not by as much. The total amount of energy that has gone into the oceans as a consequence of global warming, however, is staggering: enough to run the state of California for 200,000 years. ·In addition to significant retreats of the glaciers on Greenland's margins, as of 2005 Greenland's massive ice sheet is melting at more than twice the rate it was in the previous three years. Glaciologists report that portions of the sheet which were solid ice just a few years ago are now riddled with meltwater caverns. ·The deep waters of the Southern Ocean (that which encircles Antarctica) have become significantly colder and less salty than they were just ten years ago. This is presumably due to the melting of Southern Ocean sea ice and parts of the Antarctic ice cap. Deep ocean waters have been previously presumed to be fairly isolated from climate warming but the data obtained from depths of four to five kilometers (more than two to three miles) now suggests otherwise. Such changes could significantly impact global ocean circulation. ·The Southern Ocean, which may absorb more carbon dioxide than any other region of the global ocean, as of more than twenty-five years ago ceased to absorb additional carbon dioxide. In fact, its ability to absorb carbon dioxide seems to be declining -- even as atmospheric levels of that gas are reaching ever higher levels -- most likely due to increased wind speed over that part of the global ocean. The higher wind speed in turn has been attributed to both global warming and the destruction of the Antarctic ozone layer. Because oceans eventually absorb most of the carbon dioxide that goes into the atmosphere, the declining ability of the Southern Ocean to absorb carbon dioxide is a particularly ominous development. ·Huge expanses of floating ice around Antarctica have collapsed into fragments in just weeks, after existing for tens of thousands of years. In addition, the ice that currently covers West Antarctica, known as the West Antarctic Ice Sheet (WAIS), which was quite recently (as of 2001) judged by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) as unlikely to collapse before the end of this century, or even for the next millennium, may now be starting to disintegrate, according to the head of the British Antarctic Survey. If this ice sheet does collapse, global sea level will rise by about 5 meters (16 feet). ·While global daytime temperatures, on average, increased only about 0.33°C (0.6°F) between 1979 and 2003, nighttime temperatures have risen more than 1°C (1.8°F). These environmental changes have had significant biological effects: ·In the eastern North Atlantic, warm-water phytoplankton (marine organisms that photosynthesize, produce oxygen, and constitute the bottom of the food chain) has moved north 1000 km (600 miles) over the past 40 years. ·In 2004, almost a quarter of a million breeding pairs of seabirds in islands north of Scotland failed to produce more than a few dozen offspring. Their reproductive failure is most likely due to the North Atlantic phytoplankton changes, and the consequent breakdown of the marine food chain. Many of the affected birds migrate back and forth between the Scottish islands and areas around the Southern Ocean (off Antarctica) over the course of the year. Starved in the north, they will never make it back to the south. Similar changes have been observed off the West Coast of the United States in 2005. ·Krill, small (about 5 cm/2 inches in length), shrimplike creatures which are a main food source for seals, whales, and penguins in the Southern Ocean, have declined in places to just 20% of their previous number in just 30 years. ·Grass now survives the winter in places on the Antarctic Peninsula, the warmest part of that frigid continent. When grass last was able to survive Antarctic winters is unknown. ·In the 17 year period from 1987 to 2003, the number and size of major wildfires in the western U. S. has increased dramatically. Compared to the 17 year period stretching from 1970 to 1986, the number of major wildfires has increased fourfold, and the area burned by major fires has increased sixfold. All of the presumed causes for this increase -- the earlier melting of snow, increased summer temperatures, an extended fire season, and an increase in the area of high-altitude forests which is vulnerable to such fires -- can be traced to global warming. ·The small increase in global nighttime temperatures indicated above (1°C/1.8°F), is sufficient to have reduced the biomass (the total mass of roots, stems, leaves, and grain) of rice, humankind's most important crop, by 10%. Rice is the primary foodstuff for more than half of the population of the world. With the warming, the release of methane has begun to follow: ·The Western Siberian Peat Bog, comprising an area of a million square kilometers (about 385,000 square miles, roughly the combined size of France and Germany), has begun to melt. This area is underlain by permafrost (permanently frozen ground that has existed since the Ice Age) perhaps a kilometer (about 3000 feet) deep. The permafrost contains an enormous amount of methane hydrate, possibly as much as a quarter of the total inventory of continental methane. As this permafrost warms and melts -- an irreversible process -- methane is released. This melting may add a quantity of methane to the atmosphere roughly equivalent to that released by all other natural and agricultural sources, increasing global warming by 10 to 25%. ·Already, methane emissions from certain areas of Siberian permafrost is proceeding much more rapidly than previously estimated. These extensive areas, characterized by Ice Age deposits of wind-blown dust (called loess) with high carbon and very high ice (50 to 90%) contents, are bubbling out methane at a rate five times higher than earlier presumed. Overall, these "yedoma" regions are contributing an additional 10 to 63% the total rate of methane release from the wetlands of the north. These are only the early effects, ripples from the storm which is to come. Remedial action is still possible, but the likelihood of catastrophe becomes more certain with each passing year.


===Contention Four- Solvency=== 
No icebreaker policy now- Coast Guard is not receiving enough money
Beilinson 12 (Jerry, 2012, deputy editor of popular mechanics, and former senior editor of National Geographic Adventure, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now”, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195]], MANCHESTER)
When politicians argue over President Obama’s new 2013 budget proposal, one thing that should escape criticism is the $8 million to be spent on designing a new polar-class icebreaker for the Coast Guard. The hard part will follow: It will cost nearly $1 billion to actually build the ship, and it’s $1 billion that Congress needs to find. The United States is the world’s colossus when it comes to every other kind of military hardware, yet it has just one functioning icebreaker: the medium-strength USCGC Healy, which is primarily used for research. The ship made headlines recently for breaking open a route to the Alaskan town of Nome to aid in the delivery of much-needed fuel. It was a great mission, but it may have left an overly upbeat impression of American capabilities. The country also owns two heavy-duty icebreakers: One of the aging vessels is being decommissioned, and the other is being refurbished after years of disuse. That’s not good enough. While it’s encouraging to finally see some progress being made in the current budget proposal, the problem is far from solved—and the United States has national interests in icy waters. Here are three things to know about America’s icebreaking capabilities. 1. America’s huge northern coast is barely patrolled. Coast Guard cutters are stationed in the Bering Sea, and C-130s take infrequent flights over American waters beyond the North Slope. However, the United States does not have what you’d call a persistent maritime presence in the Arctic, a region with increasing geopolitical importance. Most of the time, there are no patrol ships or planes up there at all. It’s ironic, but the warming Arctic has actually increased demand for icebreakers. The Coast Guard needs more of the ships to prepare for search-and-rescue missions, oil-spill response (offshore drilling by Shell could commence in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas this summer), law enforcement, and plain old flag-waving in northern waters. These ships are also needed for science. The United States is a leader in oceanography, climate investigations, and all kinds of polar studies, thanks partly to the National Science Foundation’s first-rate support of research. (In fact, the NSF has overseen the budget for maintaining icebreakers since 2006; the proposed budget properly puts that responsibility back with the military.) But with just one or two working icebreakers, there’s no way the NSF and Coast Guard can accomplish all they need to. When the Healy churned its way to Alaska to help deliver fuel, its maintenance schedule was thrown off. As a result, scientific projects may have to be delayed this summer. To deliver supplies to America’s McMurdo Station in Antarctica each year, the NSF has been relying on foreign-flagged vessels. As PM reported last July, Sweden’s move to pull its icebreaker Oden off the McMurdo job put the entire 2011–2012 research season in jeopardy. NSF scrambled and eventually was able to commission a Russian vessel. This feels a lot like the situation in space: With the retirement of the space shuttle, the United States can’t fly astronauts to the International Space Station without a lift from Russian rockets. Now, it appears, the country can’t supply its main Antarctic base without Russian help, either. Building up America’s fleet of icebreakers will resolve such situations while allowing the Coast Guard to react to a changing world. 2. The U.S. is falling behind. China, a country with no Arctic coast, is building icebreakers—and that should get America’s attention. It’s one thing for Russia, with the world’s longest Arctic coastline, to operate a couple dozen of the ships. (Fortunately, they’re available for leasing, at a price.) It’s understandable, maybe, for Finland, Sweden, and Canada to surpass the United States in this area. But why is China constructing an 8000-ton vessel capable of breaking through 4.5 ft of ice at a steady clip, to join the XueLong, its existing ice-class vessel? In fact, China’s interest is unsurprising given its role as a world economic power. Commercial ships are already traversing the Northern Sea Route above Russia, carrying goods between Europe and East Asia. Often, icebreakers go along as insurance against bad conditions. And soon, ships will start carrying liquefied natural gas from Norway along the route. Traffic through the Northwest Passage above Canada is building more slowly, and talk of the Arctic sea routes competing with the Suez Canal is overblown. Nevertheless, the Bering Strait between Alaska and Russia is already getting crowded. According to Rear Adm. Thomas P. Ostebo, who commands the U.S. Coast Guard in Alaska, about 1000 vessel transits take place in the Strait each summer. That’s America’s backyard.

Even if it takes a while to build new icebreakers, we could lease them in the short term for surge capabilities
Rausnitz 8/12 (Zach Rausnitz- associate editor for the Government Groups at FierceMarkets- citing Admiral Robert Papp- Top service official, responsible for all world-wide Coast Guard activities, and oversees 42,000 active duty military and 8,000 civilian full-time employees; 8,000 reserve military part-time employees; and 30,000 civilian auxiliary volunteers, August 8 2012, “Papp: The Coast Guard can't lease all its icebreakers”, http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/papp-coast-guard-cant-lease-all-its-icebreakers/2012-08-09)
Leasing icebreakers from the private sector for surge capability could be useful, but the Coast Guard should have one or two icebreakers of its own, Commandant Adm. Robert Papp said Aug. 6. The Coast Guard tends to build and operate ships for more than 30 years. A lease over that time period would cost much more than owning the ships from the start, Papp said at a field hearing the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on homeland security held in Kodiak, Alaska. Papp said the Coast Guard has done a "rudimentary" business case analysis of leased icebreakers. An icebreaker needed for only a few years could make financial sense because maintenance costs wouldn't be as much of a concern, he said. The legal implications of leasing are unclear, though. A leased icebreaker might not be usable for law enforcement or defense operations where a sovereign military vessel is needed, Papp said. The current fleet of icebreakers is in "woeful condition," Papp said. USCGC Healy is 12 years old and in good shape. But Papp noted that the other two icebreakers, USCGC Polar Star and USCGC Polar Sea, are in "dreadful condition" and well past their service. Polar Star is undergoing refurbishment and should resume operations in 2013. Papp said he he expects Polar Star and Healy to last another decade until the Coast Guard can build a new icebreaker, which he estimated will cost between $800 million and $1 billion. The Coast Guard is preparing for new responsibilities in the Arctic. In July, it launched an unprecedented 4-month service deployment to the Arctic, an effort it calls Arctic Shield 2012. Global warming has caused once-impassable portions of the Arctic Ocean to be open to increased shipping traffic. Papp compared the situation to that of a city that acquires new land but doesn't increase its police and fire departments. The Coast Guard now has responsibilities in places where no human activity previously took place, he said.




Icebreaker missions are inevitable – Russia would do them if we didn’t which non-uniques your turns
Ariel Cohen 11, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security @ the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, and Anton Altman, Foundation Research Volunteer, 6-18-11, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten” Heritage Foundation, [[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. online
The Arctic is becoming the “wild west” of the 21st century, and the Russians have been quick to claim a good part of it as their birthright. The Russian state is after 380,000 square miles of this final frontier, which may store an estimated one-quarter of the world’s untapped hydrocarbon reserves. Moscow is expected to submit its claim to the United Nations for arbitration under the Law of the Sea Treaty (LOST) within the next couple of months. Russia’s scramble for the Arctic’s minerals was on display for all to behold when Artur Chilingarov, a renowned explorer and Deputy Chairman of the Duma, planted a titanium Russian flag beneath the North Pole in 2007 under Vladimir Putin’s orders. Putin also went on a mission to the High North to track and tag polar bears, highlighting Russia’s Arctic policy priorities. Russia initiated its claim through the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) in 2001—six years earlier. To boost this claim, this July the Russian research ship Akademik Fyodorov, accompanied by a nuclear-powered icebreaker, set off to prove that the Siberian continental shelf connects to underwater Arctic ridges by completing underwater mapping of the area in question. If confirmed, this may boost Russia’s claims to the Arctic continental shelf. Other members of the Arctic Council—the U.S., Canada, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, and Finland—may stand to lose if the CLCS approves Russian claims in the High North. Moscow has an unquestionable head start on the rest of the world, and it is not shy about investing in its ambitions. At least six new icebreakers and Sabetta, a new year-round port on the arctic shores—costing $33 billion—are on the agenda, but Prime Minister Putin has said the Kremlin is “open for a dialogue with our foreign partners and with all our neighbors in the Arctic region, but of course we will defend our own geopolitical interests firmly and consistently.” Or as they said in Soviet times, “What is mine is mine, and what is yours is negotiable.” The Arctic is of vital geopolitical importance not just to Russia, but to the entire world. It has enormous quantities of hydrocarbon energy and other natural resources, and as the Arctic is no longer completely icebound, in summertime it may become an important transportation route vital to U.S. national security. Despite this, at present the U.S. has made virtually no effort to strengthen its position in the frozen final frontier. The chief concern is America’s lack of icebreakers—even Canada and Finland have more than the United States. Icebreakers are vital to exploring the Arctic and enforceng one’s sovereignty there. As of 2010, Russia had 29 icebreakers in total and was building more. The United States had two (including one that is obsolete), with no plans to expand. The Heritage Foundation has exposed this problem extensively: The United States has significant geopolitical and geo-economic interests in the High North, but the lack of policy attention and insufficient funding have placed the U.S. on track to abdicate its national interests in this critical region. The United States must strengthen its position in the Arctic and make its interests clear to friend and foe alike. Washington should reach out to the Arctic Council members to block Russia’s expansion plans at the U.N. Meanwhile, the U.S. should fund and build its icebreaking squadron and deploy it in Alaska. Russia’s Arctic aspirations are a serious geopolitical challenge for U.S. and allied interests. America’s security and economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on U.S. ability to access polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.

Only a new federal fleet solves
Perera 11 – MA in International and Public Affairs @ Columbia
David, “Coast Guard needs at least 3 heavy icebreakers, says High Latitude Study,” Fierce Homeland Security,http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/coast-guard-needs-least-3-heavy-icebreakers-says-high-latitude-study/2011-08-17
The Coast Guard will need three heavy and three medium icebreakers to fulfill its statutory requirements in polar regions, primarily in the arctic, says a study commissioned by the Coast Guard. The "High Latitude Region Mission Analysis,"--a summary of which the Coast Guard provided (.pdf) to FierceHomelandSecurity--says a comparison of current Coast Guard capabilities to future polar missions shows gaps in most Coast Guard mission areas. A common, and dominant, factor behind the gaps the study deems "significant" is lack of polar icebreaking capability. ABS Consulting of Arlington, Va., and PotomacWave Consulting and SPA, Inc., both of Alexandria, Va., prepared the report.Were the Coast Guard to also maintain the continuous presence called for by the Naval Operations Concept, it would need six heavy and four medium icebreakers, the study says. Report authors estimate the acquisition cost of the 3+3 mix to be $4.14 billion, while 6+4 would cost $6.93 billion to acquire.The Coast Guard currently owns two heavy icebreakers, the Polar Sea and Polar Star, but Coast Guard officials say they lack resources to maintain both. The Polar Sea is set for decommissioning by Sept. 30 while the Polar Star is undergoing refurbishment, with an expected return to service in 2013.¶ The report allows that the Coast Guard may be able to conduct some missions in leased vessels, but seems to discourage it by stating that "the inherently governmental missions of the Coast Guard must be performed using government-owned and operated vessels."¶ The report also recommends the Coast Guard deploy a high-endurance cutter to the Bearing Sea with a short range recovery helicopter on board and station a minimum of two medium range recovery helicopters on Kodiak Island seasonally deployed to Cold Bay and St. Paul Island. Additional assets such as up to 12 cutters with medium range helicopters and medium-range helicopters stationed in northwest Alaska and the North Slope would additionally reduce risk, the report says. ¶ The report anticipates that future oil and gas exploration and the potential for new shipping routes caused by a warming of the Arctic will result in an increased demand for Coast Guard services. ¶ Although warming will ultimately melt harder, multi-year Arctic ice, large amounts of ice will still form over the winter, the report says. With the disappearance of multi-year ice, newly influential wind and currents will cause the location of ice to be less predictable--increasing the risk of entrapment, force grounds or damage by ice, it adds. First year ice can form ridges and become tightly packed.¶ In the Antarctic, the short term prediction is for sea ice to increase its cover, although by the late part of this century it will likely decrease by a third, the report says. The region will likely find itself under increased pressure from illegal, unlawful and unregulated fishing.

Icebreakers, with Coast Guard oversight solve
NRC, 7 (National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 1)
The principal objective of the U.S. Coast Guard’s polar ice operations role is to support U.S. interests in the polar regions by providing the icebreaker operating time and capabilities required by the U.S. Coast Guard and user agencies in polar regions. This objective is selected as the U.S. Coast Guard’s long-term first priority because Coast Guard icebreakers are the only national icebreaking resources that can reliably accomplish national objectives in the polar regions. Although, the U.S. Coast Guard has included polar icebreaking as part of its national defense role, polar operations have in fact spanned all of the mission areas to some degree. The U.S. Coast Guard polar icebreakers have been tasked at various times to support the national objectives in the polar regions by (1) providing platforms for scientific research in the Arctic and Antarctic; (2) performing logistical and supply activities in the Arctic and Antarctic; (3) providing support for resource exploration, shipping demonstration projects, and research, development, and testing projects in the Arctic; (4) performing military missions in the Arctic; (5) supporting diplomatic missions related to U.S. strategic interests; and (6) coordinating an international exchange of information on ice operations. Even before the effects of environmental changes were widely recognized, the Arctic was a target for scientific inquiry as one of the least explored areas of the planet. It seems clear that the rapid environmental changes now under way will continue to require active scientific observation and study. While science support is not exclusively a U.S. Coast Guard mission, oceanographic research is directed by statute and has been part of the service’s Arctic operations since John Muir sailed with the Revenue Cutter CORWIN in 1884. Science support remains a compatible mission for U.S. Coast Guard-operated icebreakers. U.S. icebreaker presence in the Arctic, for any or all of the potential missions discussed above, would synergistically enhance the ability to conduct scientific sampling and observation. In yet another area of competition, robust marine research capabilities in the Arctic will also bolster the international standing of U.S. scientists and research programs, as well as preserve the benefits of applied research. The U.S. Coast Guard’s science support role, primarily through logistics in McMurdo Sound, is addressed in U.S. Coast Guard statutory authorities. The presence of U.S. Coast Guard icebreakers in the Antarctic every year brings a variety of additional national capabilities to the region, not the least of which is a visible maritime presence. The need for future U.S. Coast Guard presence in Antarctica could unfold in three possible ways. First, increased geopolitical competition in Antarctica—perhaps manifested by more aggressive activities by other nations or even outright abrogation of the Antarctic Treaty—might call for a more forceful and visible U.S. presence. U.S. Coast Guard units would be obvious candidates for such a presence in Antarctic coastal areas. A second need might result from extensions of the Antarctic Treaty system, or other international agreements, aimed at managing Antarctic activities such as fishing or other resource exploitation. Again, U.S. Coast Guard capabilities would offer an on-scene solution. Finally, Antarctic tourism is growing rapidly and involves thousands of American tourists sailing on foreign-flag vessels in an area with no sovereign regime of safety, security, or environmental regulation and enforcement. These are all areas of U.S. Coast Guard responsibility and expertise, and changes in the dynamics of Antarctic tourism could require U.S. federal action to protect American citizens. The likelihood of any of the foregoing possibilities is difficult to assess, but all could be accommodated by continued U.S. Coast Guard icebreaking support in the Antarctic.






===Previous Combinations=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Previous Plans</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The United States federal government should substantially increase United States icebreaking operations for waterway creation.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The President of the United States should issue an Executive Order to substantially increase United States icebreaking operations for waterway creation. </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The United States federal government should substantially increase maritime transportation infrastructure for United States Coast Guard icebreakers.</span>


Previous Advantages:
Access, Protection, Methane, Solvency
Inherency, Methane, Sovereignty, Solvency (Doubles St. Marks)
Inherency, Methane, Naval Power, Arctic War, Solvency (r6. St. Marks)
Inherency, Naval Power, Arctic War, Overfishing (Greenhill, St. Marks r1,3)
===Shield=== 
The Coast Guard is increasing Arctic presence through “Arctic Shield” - but it will be ineffective without icebreakers
Slattery 10/26 (Brian Slattery- Research Assistant, Defense Studies Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, 10/26/2012, “Arctic Shield: Coast Guard Looking North”, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/10/26/arctic-shield-coast-guard-looking-north/”
The Arctic has become a hotbed of interest in recent years. The Coast Guard
AND
Guard and provide adequate funding for the sea service to perform its missions.

Arctic Shield, with icebreaker support, is key to protect fisheries, and prevent Arctic war
Ostebo 12 (Rear Admiral Thomas P. Ostebo- also congressional consultant on Coast Guard Operation Arctic Shield 2012, March 2012, “Protecting The Last Frontier”, http://www.uscgf-kmi.com/cgf-home/388-cgf-2012-volume-4-issue-1-march/5281-protecting-the-last-frontier.html)
There is a growing consensus within the scientific community that in 25 years, the
AND
much from their experiences through direct interaction, dialogue, communication and cooperation.

Scenario one is Overfishing:

Overfishing causes food shortages- it decimates global food chains
Prows 8- Peter Prows, Adviser on Oceans and Law of the Sea Permananet Mission of Palau to the UN since 05 – Board of Directors of the Center for International Environmental Advocacy, Winter 2008, “A Mouse Can Roar: Small Island States, the United Nations, and the End of Free-For-All Fishing on the High Seas,” Colorado Journal of International Environmental Law and Policy, Winter, 19 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 1
The oceans are in crisis and there appears to be little urgency for action.
AND
entrusting the conservation and management of the high seas to laissez-faire.

Scarcity in the Arctic uniquely escalates
Roughhead 11 – US Navy Four Star Admiral (Gary, quoted in “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, 6/15/12; original statement made 6/20/11; < http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf>)//AB
The U.S. Navy’s interests in the Arctic are not new, of
AND
and when to build forces capable and competent for the harsh northern climes.

Food wars escalate
Calvin 98- William H. Calvin, Theoretical Neurophysiologist @ the University of Washington, January 1998, "The great climate flip-flop," The Atlantic Monthly 281(1):47-64, http://williamcalvin.com/1990s/1998AtlanticClimate.htm, ACC: 6.28.07, p. online
The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields will
AND
longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.

Scenario two is Arctic War:

Lack of effective presence makes Russian resource and territorial grabs inevitable- it also undermines cooperation
Dowd 11 – MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute
Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979
One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by
AND
Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.

That escalates to nuclear war
Staples 09 (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)
The fact is,
AND
escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”

Reject their defense- Russian military actions prove they won’t cooperate absent US presence
Huebert 10 – PhD, Professor of Political Science @ U of Calgary
Rob, “The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment,”http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf
It should be clear that the Russians have been according a growing importance to the
AND
action point to an increasingly ¶ assertive Russia? This is not known.

===Naval Power=== 
First, the US Navy exceeds every country in terms of physical assets- the relevant question is whether our navy can achieve domain awareness and project those forces effectively
Farley, 07 (Robert, assistant professor at the Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce, University of Kentucky. 10-23-07. “The False Decline of the U.S. Navy” http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_false_decline_of_the_us_navy)
The United States Navy currently operates eleven aircraft carriers. The oldest and least capable
AND
dominate the world’s oceans and littorals for at least the next fifty years.

Two Internal links:
First is Maritime Domain Awareness- it’s vital to US naval power
Office of Naval Research, No Date, “Maritime Domain Awareness”, [[http://www.onr.navy.mil/en/About-ONR/science-technology-strategic-plan/Maritime-Domain-Awareness.aspx]], ACC: 9.29.11, p. online
The success of naval forces depends greatly on situational awareness in the maritime domain.
AND
of the United States. It also includes effective dissemination of that knowledge.




Arctic maritime domain awareness is nonexistent, but the need for it is growing. This gap will remain without an effective presence
DOD, 11 (Department of Defense, “Report to Congress on Arctic Operations and the Northwest Passage,” May, [[http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/Tab_A_Arctic_Report_Public.pdf]])

Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA). MDA is the effective understanding of anything associated with
AND
provide commanders, decision makers, and responders with all-domain awareness.

Icebreakers are a prerequisite to having an effective presence in the artic
NRC, 7 National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 51
Asserting a national presence in the Arctic requires access to the region, and icebreaker
AND
S. EEZ and across an expanded continental shelf region year-round.





Second is Force Readiness- waterways are critical to US naval power- allow for force deployment- the Arctic is the next region necessitating waterway creation- and the aff is key
Weitz 11 (Dr. Richard Weitz- Richard Weitz is a Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at Hudson Institute. His current research includes regional security developments relating to Europe, Eurasia, and East Asia as well as U.S. foreign, defense, homeland security, and WMD nonproliferation policies. Dr. Weitz also is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Project on National Security Reform (PNSR), where he overseas case study research, and a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), where he contributes to various defense projects- Before joining Hudson, Dr. Weitz worked for the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the Defense Science Board, DFI International, Inc., the Center for Strategic Studies, the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, and the U.S. Department of Defense. Dr. Weitz is a graduate of Harvard College (B.A. with Highest Honors in Government), the London School of Economics (M.Sc. in International Relations), Oxford University (M.Phil. in Politics), and Harvard University (Ph.D. in Political Science). He is proficient in Russian, French, and German, August 16 2011, “Maritime Power and Grand Strategy”, http://www.sldinfo.com/maritime-power-and-grand-strategy/)
An effective grand strategy requires appropriate and adequate tools and resources to carry it out
AND
maritime security leverages the investment in the U.S. Navy manifold.




Naval power deters great power war and prevents multiple extinction scenarios
Conway, Roughead, and Allen, 7- *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf,)

This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower to influence actions and activities at sea and
AND
ability to retaliate against aggressors conventionally, unconventionally, and with nuclear forces.

===<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Methane</span>=== 
Arctic is the main area of methane release- release would cause an irreversible tipping point
Duarte and Huertas 10/18 (Carlos Duarte, University of Western Australia
and Antonio Delgado Huertas, Spanish Scientific Research Council CSIC, 10/18/2012, “Methane hydrates: a volatile time bomb in the Arctic”, http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/10/methane-hydrates-a-volatile-time-bomb-in-the-arctic.html)
The risk with climate change is not with the direct effect of humans on the
AND
to climate change appears to be a careless walk on the razor edge.


Only extraction solves methane

Cohen ‘10 MBA, B.Sc., (Chem. Eng.) PR.Eng. Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd. (Dave, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517]])

Well, of course
AND
—to cause natural degassing.


Extraction tech works- recent Department of Energy tests proves
DOE 5/2/12 (Department of Energy, May 5 2012, “U.S. and Japan Complete Successful Field Trial of Methane Hydrate Production Technologies”, http://energy.gov/articles/us-and-japan-complete-successful-field-trial-methane-hydrate-production-technologies)
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu announced today the
AND
. Such an effort would again require engaging private sector and international partners.
Icebreakers are key to extraction – and we don’t link to your oil offense – oil drilling won’t begin for 20 years
Hargreaves 7/19/12 (Steve Hargreaves- staff writer for CNNMoney.com, where he focuses on the energy industry, July 19 2012, “Oil: Only part of the Arctic's massive resources”, http://money.cnn.com/2012/07/17/news/economy/Arctic-oil/index.htm)
NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- When Royal Dutch Shell sinks five wells off Alaska
AND
Arctic passable year round, and without requiring the services of an icebreaker.
Methane burst causes extinction- it’s comparatively worse than nuke war
Ryskin ‘3- Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology,
AND
weapons, implicated in the nuclearwinter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).

Methane bursts come first – it’s empirically more likely and could happen at any second
Dorritie 7 (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,”Killer in our Midst, 2007,[[http://www.killerinourmidst.com/]])
Deep beneath the surface of the sea, buried in the oxygen-depleted muds
AND
, but the likelihood of catastrophe becomes more certain with each passing year.
===Solvency=== 
No icebreaker policy now- Coast Guard is not receiving enough money

Beilinson 12 (Jerry, 2012, deputy editor of popular mechanics, and former senior editor of National Geographic Adventure, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now”, http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195)

When politicians argue over President Obama’s new 2013 budget proposal, one thing that should

AND

vessel transits take place in the Strait each summer. That’s America’s backyard.

Icebreakers, with Coast Guard oversight solve

NRC, 7 (National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1, ACC: 9.24.11, p. 1)

The principal objective of the U.S. Coast Guard’s polar ice operations role

AND

by continued U.S. Coast Guard icebreaking support in the Antarctic.

Even if it takes a while to build new icebreakers, we could lease them in the short term for surge capabilities

Rausnitz 8/12 (Zach Rausnitz- associate editor for the Government Groups at FierceMarkets- citing Admiral Robert Papp- Top service official, responsible for all world-wide Coast Guard activities, and oversees 42,000 active duty military and 8,000 civilian full-time employees; 8,000 reserve military part-time employees; and 30,000 civilian auxiliary volunteers, August 8 2012, “Papp: The Coast Guard can't lease all its icebreakers”, http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/papp-coast-guard-cant-lease-all-its-icebreakers/2012-08-09)

Leasing icebreakers from the private sector for surge capability could be useful, but the

AND

responsibilities in places where no human activity previously took place, he said.
A new federal fleet is key

Perera 11 – MA in International and Public Affairs @ Columbia

David, “Coast Guard needs at least 3 heavy icebreakers, says High Latitude Study,” Fierce Homeland Security,http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/coast-guard-needs-least-3-heavy-icebreakers-says-high-latitude-study/2011-08-17

The Coast Guard will need three heavy and three medium icebreakers to fulfill its statutory

AND

likely find itself under increased pressure from illegal, unlawful and unregulated fishing.

Icebreaker missions are inevitable – Russia would do them if we didn’t which non-uniques your turns

Ariel Cohen 11, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security @ the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, and Anton Altman, Foundation Research Volunteer, 6-18-11, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten” Heritage Foundation, http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/, ACC: 9.24.11, p. online

The Arctic is becoming the “wild west” of the 21st century, and

AND

.S. ability to access polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.

===Access=== 

Icebreakers are a prerequisite to having an effective presence in the artic

NRC, 7 National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1, ACC: 9.24.11, p. 51

Asserting a national presence in the Arctic requires access to the region, and icebreaker

AND

S. EEZ and across an expanded continental shelf region year-round.
Scenario One is Naval Power
No Arctic maritime domain awareness – effective presence is key to resolve this gap

DOD, 11 (Department of Defense, “Report to Congress on Arctic Operations and the Northwest Passage,” May, http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/Tab_A_Arctic_Report_Public.pdf)
Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA). MDA is the effective understanding of anything associated with

AND

provide commanders, decision makers, and responders with all-domain awareness.


MDA vital to U.S. naval hegemony

Office of Naval Research, No Date, “Maritime Domain Awareness”, http://www.onr.navy.mil/en/About-ONR/science-technology-strategic-plan/Maritime-Domain-Awareness.aspx, ACC: 9.29.11, p. online

The success of naval forces depends greatly on situational awareness in the maritime domain.

AND

of the United States. It also includes effective dissemination of that knowledge.
Naval power deters great power war and prevents multiple extinction scenarios

Conway, Roughead, and Allen, 7- *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf,)
This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower to influence actions and activities at sea and

AND

ability to retaliate against aggressors conventionally, unconventionally, and with nuclear forces.
Scenario Two is Diplomacy

Icebreakers are key to science diplomacy- allow us to access research stations for applied science research

NRC 6- NRC, September 2006, National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs” dels.nas.edu/dels/rpt_briefs/polar_icebreakers_final.pdf, ACC: 9.24.11, p. online

The United States has enduring national and strategic interests in the Arctic and Antarctic and

AND

if the United States is to continue as a leader in polar science.

Cooperation on applied sciences deescalates conflicts and solves multiple scenarios for resource scarcity

Royal Society 10- Royal Society, AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of

AND

are already the locus of existing instability and conflict (see Figure 2).

Scenario Three is Arctic War
Access is key to Naval and Coast Guard interoperability which solves Arctic War

Winokur

AND

begin to ship goods over the Pole rather than through the Panama Canal.
Arctic War goes nuclear

Staples 9 – (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward

AND

, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”

Scenario Four is Resupply

Access and icebreakers are key to resupply the Thule Air base

O’Rourke 6/14 (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, Congressional Research Service, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress,” http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc85474/,)

Pacer goose= Resupply mission

Existing capability and capacity gaps are expected to significantly impact future Coast Guard performance in

AND

Pacer Goose; then complete any Freedom of Navigation exercises in the region.
Thule early warning systems are key to missile warning and defense

OUSD 12 (Office of the Under-Secretary of Defense, May 2011, “Department of Defense Report to Congress on Arctic Operations and the Northwest Passage”, http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/Tab_A_Arctic_Report_Public.pdf)

U.S. Air Force. U.S. Air Force capabilities in the Arctic are primarily located in the Alaska

region with bases near Anderson, Alaska, and in Thule, Greenland. Capabilities

AND

-year upgrade to add the missile defense mission starting in early 2012.
BMD prevents nuclear escalation

Vego, 8 — professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf, Deech)

Operations in time of peace encompass routine activities, homeland security, protection of the

AND

weapons of mass destruction (WMD) could be used as terrorist weapons.


===Protection=== 
Over-fishing is happening now- puts multiple marine species at risk

UBC 11 (The University of British Columbia, February 4, “Arctic fisheries catches 75 times higher than previous reports: UBC research”, http://www.publicaffairs.ubc.ca/2011/02/04/arctic-fisheries-catches-75-times-higher-than-previous-reports-ubc-research/, MANCHESTER)

University of British Columbia researchers estimate that fisheries catches in the Arctic totaled 950,

AND

-exploitation of fish in this delicate but so-far neglected ecosystem.”

Icebreakers stop overfishing and are key to oil spill response

ABS Consulting 10 (independent consulting group hired to asses coast guard polar requirements, July 2010, “United States Coast Guard High Latitude Region Mission Analysis

Capstone Summary” http://assets.fiercemarkets.com/public/sites/govit/hlssummarycapstone.pdf, MANCHESTER)

Existing capability and capacity gaps are expected to significantly impact future Coast Guard performance in

AND

S. ability to respond to Antarctic contingencies of any kind is problematic.
Slow oil spill response risks marine extinction- they don’t assume large spills

NAE 3 – American National Academy of Engineering (“Cumulative Environmental Effects of Oil and Gas Activities on Alaska’s North Slope”, 2003; < http://dels-old.nas.edu/dels/rpt_briefs/north_slope_final.pdf>)

Alaska’s North Slope is underlain by permafrost— a thick layer of earth material that

AND

a small fraction of spilled oil, especially under conditions of broken ice.
Extinction

Craig 3, Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law, 2003 (McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis)

Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, just as they

AND

kill ourselves, and we will take most of the biosphere with us.

Specifically, overfishing depletes arctic cod – it’s a keystone species

PEW 10 (Environmental group studying northern oceans, “COMMERCIAL FISHING”, http://www.oceansnorth.org/commercial-fishing, MANCHESTER)

Fortunately, the North American Arctic has largely been spared this legacy of overfishing,

AND

Conservation Alliance (organization representing 60 percent of Bering Sea Commercial fishing industry)


Key species loss leads to extinction

Wapner, 94- American University, Dept of International Politics and Foreign Policy (Paul, August, Politics and Life Sciences, 1994, p 177)

Massive extinction of species is dangerous, then, because one cannot predict which species

AND

is like playing Russian roulette, with our collective future as the stakes.



===Sovereignty=== 
Artic sovereignty disputes now despite Law of the Sea - only Icebreakers can re-exert sovereignty - other nations follow these principles
Borresen 8 (Jacob Borresen (born 1943) is a retired flag commander with a long military career in the Navy. He has served as a Captain, military secretary to Defence Minister and head of military operations and exercises. He was also general manager of SACEUR crisis management team with responsibility for planning and management of NATO's operations in the former Yugoslavia. He finished his service in the Armed Forces Chief of Staff of the Naval Staff 1998-2000.
Jacob Borresen has his military training from the Naval War College, Armed Forces Staff College, Defence College and the NATO Defence College in 1989. He was a military fellow at the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs 1983-1985 (translated from Wikipedia page in Norwegian), 2008 publication in Heartland, "Heartland Eurasian Review of Geopolitics- The Polar Game, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/13916171/Heartland-2008-02-the-Polar-Game]])
The new Law of the Sea, as codified in the Third UN Convention on
AND
in the Beaufort Sea without coming to a decision on the issue of delineation

Clearly defined materiality is key to the creation of the ideal Nomos of the Earth- ice must be viewed as synonymous with water and land to create stable sovereign rule
Gerhardt 10 (Hannes Gerhardt, <span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">∗</span> Philip E. Steinberg, † Jeremy Tasch, ‡ Sandra J. Fabiano, § and Rob Shields # *Department of Geosciences, University of West Georgia † Department of Geography, Florida State University ‡ Department of Geography & Environmental Planning, Towson University § Independent Scholar # Department of Sociology, University of Alberta, January 2010, “Contested Sovereignty in a Changing Arctic”, http://mailer.fsu.edu/~psteinbe/garnet-psteinbe/Contested%20Sovereignty%20nocover.pdf)
Given this disparity between the idealized materiality of the system of territorially delimited sovereign states
AND
to a scramble for new material foundations on which to base sovereign claims.

Friend/Enemy distinctions are inevitable – it is only a question of stability
Norman 9- Emma R. Norman, University of the Americas Puebla, Mexico, Department of International Relations and Political Science, 2009, "Applying Carl Schmitt to Global Puzzles: Identity, Conflict and the Friend/Enemy Antithesis", [[http://works.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1000&context=emma_norman]], September 4, 2009)
The emphasis on the exclusive nature of identity construction leads to the conclusion that an
AND
of my job is to connect Iraq to the war on terror."27

Exclusion and distinctions are inevitable---but only distinctions marked by visible spatial lines separating friends from enemies can prevent VIOLENT exclusion
Rasch 5 – William Rasch, Professor of Germanic Studies at the University of Indiana, Spring 2005, “Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle,” The South Atlantic Quarterly, Vol. 104, No. 2, p. 253-262
For it is not that exclusions are miraculously made absent once distinctions are not formally
AND
become apparent’’ and the ‘‘forms of power and domination become visible.’’7


The bracketing of war through spatio-political distinctions stops annihilating wars---political orders that present themselves as spatially universal and attempt legal prohibitions on war like LOST are the ontological foundation of the most violent wars of aggression
Rasch 5 – William Rasch, Professor of Germanic Studies at the University of Indiana, Spring 2005, “Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle,” The South Atlantic Quarterly, Vol. 104, No. 2, p. 253-262
In theory and practice, then, the individual is protected from arbitrary and irrational
AND
it may also always produce recurring, asphyxiating political nightmares of absolute exclusion.

We need stable friend-enemy distinctions- they prevent endless warfare and achieve an understanding of the self
Reinhard, 04 (Kenneth, prof at UCLA, “Towards a Political Theology of the Neighbor,” pg. 4-5, http://www.cjs.ucla.edu/Mellon/Towards_Political_Theology.pdf)
If the concept of the political is defined, as Carl Schmitt does, in
AND
ultimately appeasing contours, because they would be identifiable” (PF 83).

Two reasons the aff is key:
A) Push back- Countries are pushing for arctic sovereignty now- icebreakers are necessary for the US regain control
Davis 11 (Tyler Davis- Contributor to the Heritage Foundation and member of their Young Leaders Program, December 9 2011, “The Lone Icebreaker: U.S. Sovereignty in the Arctic”, http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone-icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/)
The United States Coast Guard is being left behind in the Arctic. While countries
AND
connects the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, the United States is falling behind.

Absent that push back conflict escalates

Staples 09 (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)

The fact is,
AND
of nuclear weapons.”


B) Mapping- Plan is necessary to recreate spatial lines and reclaim Arctic sovereignty
Cohen et al 8 (Ariel, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies @ Heritage, PhD @ Tufts U, “The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic”, http://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2008/pdf/bg2202.pdf.)
The Arctic is quickly reemerging as a strategic¶ area where vital U.S
AND
advance its claims or to¶ defend against the claims of other countries.

These spatial distinctions resolve the flaws of sovereignty extension while creating necessary distinctions
Cohen 11 (Ariel, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies @ Heritage, PhD @ Tufts U, “RUSSIA IN THE ARCTIC: CHALLENGES TO U.S. ENERGYAND GEOPOLITICS IN THE HIGH NORTH”, RUSSIA IN THE ARCTIC, Strategic Studies Institute Monograph, July 2011,http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB1073.pdf.)
The policy statement urges the U.S. Senate to approve the U.
AND
whether Russian claims conflict with U.S. and ¶ Canadian claims.

Only political questions matter – the State, specifically the sovereign, must outline sovereignty and national identity to establish a stable friend/enemy
Bishai and Behnke 7- Linda Bishai, Sr. Program official in the Education Program at the US Institute of Peace, and Andreas Behnke, Lecturer in the Dept of Politics and International Relations at the University of Reading, 2007, “War, violence, and the political,” The International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt: Terror, liberal war, and the crisis of global order. Pg. 109)
More precisely, the state is based on a political decision between friend and enemy
AND
other systems of signification through which socially and politically constituted identities become naturalized.

=== === 
===Arctic War=== 

Artic war is highly probable now
WSJ 4/16 (2012, wall street journal “Military powers beef up arctic presence”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304299304577347613251787408.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)
YOKOSUKA, Japan—Global military leaders are preparing for a new kind of Cold
AND
activity, and experts believe that will increase significantly in the years ahead.

Plan is key to stop that war, two reasons:

A) Their presence alone solves
NRC, 2007 (National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 8)
Projecting an active and influential presence in the polar regions requires that the United States
AND
effect of a changing climate that facilites increased human presence in the Arctic.

B) Naval and Coast Guard Interoperability and arctic awareness is key
Winokur 11 – Deputy Oceanographer of the Navy, (Robert, June 22,
AND
begin to ship goods over the Pole rather than through the Panama Canal.


Arctic War goes nuclear

Staples 09 (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)

The fact is
AND
use of nuclear weapons.
===Over-fishing=== 

Over-fishing is happening now- puts multiple marine species at risk
UBC 11 (The University of British Columbia, February 4, “Arctic fisheries catches 75 times higher than previous reports: UBC research”, [[http://www.publicaffairs.ubc.ca/2011/02/04/arctic-fisheries-catches-75-times-higher-than-previous-reports-ubc-research/]])
University of British Columbia researchers estimate that fisheries catches in the Arctic totaled 950,
AND
-exploitation of fish in this delicate but so-far neglected ecosystem.”


Icebreakers key to stop overfishing in the poles, also key to protect the artic environment- impact is too huge to ignore
ABS Consulting 10 (independent consulting group hired to asses coast guard polar requirements, July 2010, “United States Coast Guard High Latitude Region Mission Analysis
Capstone Summary” [[http://assets.fiercemarkets.com/public/sites/govit/hlssummarycapstone.pdf]])
Existing capability and capacity gaps are expected to significantly impact future Coast Guard performance in
AND
S. ability to respond to Antarctic contingencies of any kind is problematic.

Scenario one is bio-d:
Overfishing destroys it

UN 6 – United Nations (Nick Nuttall, Head of Media Services, United Nations Environment Programme, “Overfishing, a Threat to Marine Biodiversity”, [[http://www.un.org/events/tenstories/06/story.asp?storyID=800]])

The magnitude of the problem
AND
the rate of forests.

Comparatively it’s the worst danger to the ocean
Craig 3 (Robin Kundis Craig, Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, Winter 2003, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, p. L/N)
Ask the average person to name the leading cause of marine ecosystem degradation, and
AND
by the effects of overfishing on the more general ecosystem function of the sea

Extinction
Craig 3, Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law, 2003 (McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis)
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, just as they
AND
kill ourselves, and we will take most of the biosphere with us.


Default Aff- the collapse could happen any second
Lopez 7- Bernardo V. Lopez, Business World Columbist, 5-24
AND
only 10 milliseconds, and it can happen when we least expect it.

Specifically is depletes arctic cod- they are a keystone species
PEW 10 (Environmental group studying northern oceans, “COMMERCIAL FISHING”, [[http://www.oceansnorth.org/commercial-fishing]])
Fortunately, the North American Arctic has largely been spared this legacy of overfishing,
AND
Conservation Alliance (organization representing 60 percent of Bering Sea Commercial fishing industry)


Key species loss leads to extinction
Wapner, 94- American University, Dept of International Politics and Foreign Policy (Paul, August, Politics and Life Sciences, 1994, p 177)
Massive extinction of species is dangerous, then, because one cannot predict which species
AND
is like playing Russian roulette, with our collective future as the stakes.




Scenario two is food:

Overfishing endangers global food production and the fish industry
Prows 8- Peter Prows, Adviser on Oceans and Law of the Sea Permananet Mission of Palau to the UN since 05 – Board of Directors of the Center for International Environmental Advocacy, Winter 2008, “A Mouse Can Roar: Small Island States, the United Nations, and the End of Free-For-All Fishing on the High Seas,” Colorado Journal of International Environmental Law and Policy, Winter, 19 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 1
The oceans are in crisis and there appears to be little urgency for action.
AND
entrusting the conservation and management of the high seas to laissez-faire.


Overfishing causes price blips
Noyes No Date (James T., el camino college earth science professor was given a 2.7 on ratemyteacher.com- yeah you just wasted your time enlarging this, “Overfishing”, pdf)
We now take over 4 times the amount of seafood from the ocean that we
AND
explore why overfishing is common, and what can be done about it.

Price blips kill half the planet
Brown 5- Lester Brown, President of Earth Policy Institute, MPA – Harvard, Former Advisor to the Secretary of Agriculture, 2005, Outgrowing The Earth, [[http://www.earth-policy.org/Books/Out/]], ACC: 2.10.09, p. online
“Many Americans see terrorism as the principal threat to security,” said Brown,
AND
For them, it is the next meal that is the overriding concern.”


And food scarcity leads to World War 3
Calvin 98- William H. Calvin, Theoretical Neurophysiologist @ the University of Washington, January 1998, "The great climate flip-flop," The Atlantic Monthly 281(1):47-64, http://williamcalvin.com/1990s/1998AtlanticClimate.htm, ACC: 6.28.07, p. online
The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields will
AND
longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.





=*2AC Stuff*= 
==---Add-ons---== 

===2AC ATS=== 
Icebreakers are key to solidify the ATS- status quo results in a power vacuum
NRC, 2007, National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 51
The U.S. national presence in the Antarctic is possible at present because
AND
to the continued existence of these stations and their associated outlying field site.

ATS maintance is key to prevent armed conflict
Roura 11 (Ricardo, environmental geologist, “Antarctica’s Wilderness Values”, 2011, http://www.oneworldmagazine.org/focus/southpole/contmain.html)
As we continue to move towards more "advanced" forms of exploitation of the
AND
destroyed. Maybe the future of Antarctica will rely on this duel protection.

===1AR Solves Russia=== 
ATS key to Russia cooperation and relations
Cooper 12- Susannah Cooper, Senior Advisor for Antarctica in the Office of Ocean and Polar Affairs in the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs. 1-31-12, “U.S., Russia Conduct Joint Antarctic Inspection”, US Department of State, [[http://blogs.state.gov/index.php/site/entry/us_russia_joint_antarctic_inspection/]], ACC: 3.2.12, p. online
The Antarctic Treaty of 1959 reserves the continent as an area exclusively for peaceful purposes
AND
look forward to building upon this cooperation with further collaboration in the future.

===2AC Biotech=== 
Arctic science is key to biotech
NRC 7 (National Research Council, “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD:An Assessment of U.S. Needs, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, Polar Research Board, Division on Earth and Life Studies NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1)
Arctic biological research addresses basic questions about the role of the Arctic in the global
AND
.g., development of improved cryopreservation techniques) (NRC, 2004).

Bioterror is inevitable and outweighs nuclear war – Advances key to solve
Maurer 7 (stephen m. maurer, j.d. director of the goldman school project at the university of california, berkeley on information technology and homeland security lifeboat foundation bioshield http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield 2007)
The new realities of terrorism and suicide bombers pull us one step further. How
AND
threat of bioengineered malevolent viruses and microbial organisms. Time is running out.

===2AC Biodiversity (KS)=== 
Arctic overfishing collapses bio-d
PEW 10 (Environmental group studying northern oceans, “COMMERCIAL FISHING”, [[http://www.oceansnorth.org/commercial-fishing]])
Fortunately, the North American Arctic has largely been spared this legacy of overfishing,
AND
Conservation Alliance (organization representing 60 percent of Bering Sea Commercial fishing industry)

The impact is linear and comes first
Wapner, 94- American University, Dept of International Politics and Foreign Policy (Paul, August, Politics and Life Sciences, 1994, p 177)
Massive extinction of species is dangerous, then, because one cannot predict which species
AND
is like playing Russian roulette, with our collective future as the stakes.

===<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2AC BMD</span>=== 
Icebreakers are key resupply the Thule Air base
O’Rourke 6/14 (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, Congressional Research Service, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress,” [[http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc85474/]],)
Pacer goose= Resupply mission
Existing capability and capacity gaps are expected to significantly impact future Coast Guard performance in
AND
Pacer Goose; then complete any Freedom of Navigation exercises in the region.

Thule BMEWS key to missile warning and defense the next closest base won’t be ready for two years
OUSD 12 (Office of the Under-Secretary of Defense, May 2011, “Department of Defense Report to Congress on Arctic Operations and the Northwest Passage”, http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/Tab_A_Arctic_Report_Public.pdf)
U.S. Air Force. U.S. Air Force capabilities in the Arctic are primarily located in the Alaska
region with bases near Anderson, Alaska, and in Thule, Greenland. Capabilities
AND
-year upgrade to add the missile defense mission starting in early 2012.

BMD is key to prevent nuclear war-
Vego, 8 — professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf, Deech)
Operations in time of peace encompass routine activities, homeland security, protection of the
AND
weapons of mass destruction (WMD) could be used as terrorist weapons.

===<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2AC Coastal Terrorism</span>=== 
Coast Guard, and their icebreakers, key to coastal security
Cantwell ‘07
Maria Cantwell, Ex-Washington State Senator, Congressional Record from July 2007 in reference to a passed bill, Government printing office 7/25/07, [[http://books.google.com/books?id=ht4QmoOTphIC&pg=PA578&lpg=PA578&dq=coast+guard+icebreaker+smuggling&source=bl&ots=cSF27cu5zQ&sig=Rz59fClWz2Ypkfey0G_mSEzXKjk&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Ze3xT8ScMuLW0QG-0-T6Ag&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBA#v=onepage&q=coast%20guard%20icebreaker%20smuggling&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=ht4QmoOTphIC&pg=PA578&lpg=PA578&dq=coast+guard+icebreaker+smuggling&source=bl&ots=cSF27cu5zQ&sig=Rz59fClWz2Ypkfey0G_mSEzXKjk&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Ze3xT8ScMuLW0QG-0-T6Ag&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBA#v=onepage&q=coast%20guard%20icebreaker%20smuggling&f=false]], “Congressional Record”, p. 21012, V. 153, 7/2/12, GL
A bill to reauthorize the Coast Guard for fiscal year 2008, and for other
AND
vessel. With increased climate change, the role of icebreakers is changing.

Lack of arctic security gives terrorist an entry point into the US
Canadian Press 10
(November 10, 2010 The Canadian Press
[[http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/north/story/2010/11/10/cp-arctic-security-threats.html]])

"The Arctic is changing is so much. To simply pretend that we'll just
AND
that could increase the United States vulnerability to terrorism in the Arctic region."

Terrorism results in extinction
Alexander 3
Yonah, professor and director of the Inter-University Center for Terrorism Studies in Israel and the United States, August 28, 2003, The Washington Times, “Terrorism myths and realities,” p. A20

Last week’s brutal suicide bombings in Baghdad and Jerusalem have once again illustrated dramatically that
AND
the road may be: For without victory, there is no survival.”

===2AC Economy=== 
Icebreakers key to maritime shipping
Konovalov 12 (Alexei, Candidate of Sciences, head of the World’s Ocean Center at the State Research Institution “Council for the Study of the Productive Forces” (SOPS), Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation and Russian Academy of Sciences, and the Section for Public–Private Partnership Issues at the Science-Expert Council of the Government’s Marine Board. May 1, 2012, “The Arctic”http://www.institutenorth.org/assets/images/uploads/articles/The_issues_and_prospects_of_an_expanded_arctic_transportation_network.pdf, accessed 6-28-12)
A number of key problems hinder the Northern Sea Route’s full incorporation into the system
AND
of the regional population and the operation of local territorial-production complexes.

Solves economic collapse
Coble and Larsen 11
(Representatives in the U.S. House (Federal News Service 5/24. “HEARING OF THE COAST GUARD AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMITTEE; SUBJECT: "CREATING U.S. MARITIME INDUSTRY JOBS BY REDUCING REGULATORY BURDENS"; CHAIRED BY: REPRESENTATIVE HOWARD COBLE -Search using: Biographies Plus News News, Most Recent 60 Days (R-NC); WITNESSES: REAR ADMIRAL KEVIN COOK, DIRECTOR OF PREVENTION POLICY, U.S. COAST GUARD; COAST GUARD DEPUTY JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL CALVIN LEDERER; LOCATION: 2167 RAYBURN HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C.”, URL: [[http://0-www.lexisnexis.com.wizard.umd.umich.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/?verb=sr&csi=297373]]. DA: 7/31/11)
The subcommittee is meeting today to review the Coast Guard's regulatory program and examine ways
AND
maritime and port security, enhancing maritime commerce and protecting the marine environment.
(no terminal impact read- only read this on econ based DA’s)

===2AC Energy Insecurity=== 
Status quo makes energy insecurity inevitable, plan key to contain escalation
Revkin, senior fellow at the Pace Academy for Applied Environmental Studies at Pace University, ‘8 (Andrew, August 19, The International Herald Tribune “Russian icebreakers challenge U.S. role in Arctic” lexis)
A growing array of American military leaders, Arctic experts and lawmakers say the United
AND
opening to commerce - and potential conflict and hazards - like never before.

That’s the most likely scenario for resource war escalation
European Council, 08 (Paper from the High Representative and the European Commission to the European Council, “Climate Change and International Security”, 3/14/08, [[@http://www.consilium.europa.eu/ueDocs/cms_data/docs/pressdata/EN/reports/99387.pdf]])
One of the most significant potential conflicts over resources arises from intensified competition over access
AND
due to the effects of climate change, the scramble for resources will intensify
===2AC Price Blips=== 
Overfishing causes price blips
Noyes 10 (James T.- el camino college earth science professor was given a 2.7 on ratemyteacher.com- yeah you just wasted your time enlarging this, 2010- date obtained through data within article, “Overfishing”, pdf)
We now take over 4 times the amount of seafood from the ocean that we
AND
explore why overfishing is common, and what can be done about it.

That kills billions
Normile 2 (Dennis Normile- Science Magazine correspondent, 11/8/2002, “Poor to Feel Pinch of Rising Fish Prices,” Ebsco)
TOKYO— The first major attempt to project global supply and demand for fish has
AND
part of the World Bank-funded Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research.
===2AC Trade=== 
New trade routes created by coast guard icebreakers are key to trade
Hambling, ’12 (David, http://www.guardian.co.uk/news/2012/jan/11/weatherwatch-arctic-icebreakers-trade, January ’11 “Weatherwatch: Trade traffic in Arctic waterways is increasing”)
As Arctic ice gets thinner, you could expect that icebreakers would become less important
AND
actually open up a major sea route for global commerce," he said.

Trade makes war unthinkable- statistical analysis supports our argument
Griswold, 11 (Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12]])
Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend.” It may not
AND
and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.

===2AC Territory Disputes=== 
US presence in Antarctica is key to the ATS- that solves territory disputes
William J. Burns, Executive Secretary, 3-9-96, PDD/NSC-26, US Antarctica Policy
“Memorandum for Andrew D. Sens, Antarctica: Funding of the United States Antarctic program, including south pole station”, [[http://www.fas.org/irp/offdocs/pdd26.htm]], ACC: 3.2.12, p. online
The United States has important foreign policy and national security interests in Antarctica. These
AND
of South Pole Station, represents both a priority and cost effective investment.

Territorial disputes are the proximate cause of global conflict
Valeriano 9 – Professor of Political Science @ UIC
Brandon, Assistant Professor of Political Science, Ph.D. at Vanderbilt University, “When States Die: Geographic and Territorial Pathways to State Death,” http://tigger.uic.edu/~bvaler/When%20Do%20States%20Die%20II%20Final.doc
Due to the salience of territorial disputes (Senese 1996) and their connection to
AND
primary factor that one must defend in order for a state to survive.

===2AC Warming=== 
Icebreakers key to polar research
NRC, 2007, National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 7-8
The health and continued vitality of polar research are intimately linked to the availability of
AND
adequate icebreaking capabilities will be essential to advancing research in both polar regions.


Polar research is vital to actionable data to stop warming
International Polar Foundation, 2-26-09, “The State of Polar Research: A Preliminary Report on IPY Research”, Special Reports, Logistics, Atmosphere & Space, Water & Oceans, Land & Geology, Ice & Snow, Flora & Fauna, Human Dimension, Arctic, Antarctic, [[http://www.sciencepoles.org/articles/article_detail/the_state_of_polar_research_a_preliminary_report_on_ipy_research/]], ACC: 3.2.12, p. online
Multidisciplinary research from the International Polar Year (IPY)2007-2008 provides new
AND
A major IPY science conference will take place in Oslo in June 2010.
(no impact read, only read on DA’s with warming impacts)


==---Topicality---== 
===2AC T-Transportation Infrastructure=== 
Transportation infrastructure includes rail, highways, transit, and waterways- that’s a quote from
Puentes, 2011 – Fellow and Director, Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative Brookings Institution (Robert “A fast forward approach to Transportation investment” 4/11/11 [[http://www.brookings.edu/up-front/posts/2011/04/04-transportation-puentes?rssid=transportation&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+BrookingsRSS%2Ftopics%2Ftransportation+%28Brookings+Topics+-+Transportation%29&utm_content=Google+Reader)//dm]]
*NOTE: AFF=America Fast Forward
One key component of AFF is the creation of Transportation & Regional Infrastructure Project (TRIP) bonds. The bill creates a Transportation Finance Corporation that would control the bond issuing and repayment process. The Corporation would issue $50 billion in bonds over 6 years, allocating at least 1 percent to qualified projects in every state, with the remaining funding competitive for larger qualified projects. Bond principal repayment comes from the Infrastructure Finance Account, funded by customs user fees. The universe of qualifying projects for TRIP bonds are increased to include any transportation infrastructure project including rail, highway, transit, waterways and the like. A very important component to the TRIP Bond legislation is that states are required to provide a matching contribution, none of which can come from the federal highway trust fund, thus reinforcing the need for local self-help.

the plan would make the waterways in the US

Cohen et al 8 (Ariel, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies @ Heritage, PhD @ Tufts U, “The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic”, http://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2008/pdf/bg2202.pdf.)

Reestablishing the U.S. Arctic Presence. The United States should not rely on the findings of other nations that are mapping the Arctic floor. Timely mapping results are necessary to defending and asserting U.S. rights in bilateral and multilateral fora. The U.S. needs to increase its efforts to map the floor of the Arctic Ocean to determine the extent of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) and ascertain the extent of legitimate U.S. claims to territory beyond its 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone. To accomplish this, the U.S. needs to upgrade its icebreaker fleet. The U.S. should also continue to cooperate and advance its interests with other Arctic nations through venues such as the recent Arctic Ocean Conference in Ilulissat, Greenland.

Investment in transportation infrastructure must be an improvement or addition to an existing physical structure

ECMT 2 (European Conference of Ministers of Transport, inter-governmental organization established by a Protocol signed in Brussels on I7 October I953. It is a forum in which Ministers responsible for transport, and more specifically the inland transport sector, can co-operate on policy. Within this forum, Ministers can openly discuss current problems and agree upon point approaches aimed at improving the utilization and at ensuring the rational development of European transport systems of international importance. “Transport and Economic Development” Google Books,)

In the present context, “transportation investment" is defined as a capacity improvement or addition to an existing network of roads, rail, waterways, hub terminals, tunnels, bridges, airports and harbors. "The concept of "resultant economic growth” is further considered to mean the long-run increase in economic activity in a given geographical area, which can be ascribed to a speciﬁc transport investment and which confers welfare improvements to the area's residents. Additionally, as explained later. it is also required that the growth benefits will be in addition to the direct transportation beneﬁts from the investment and not merely their capitalised value. This latter condition is a fundamental one, fully discussed in section 5.2.

We meet the counter-interp- the plan creates Arctic waterways

Weakley 5 – President-Lake Carriers’ Association Vice President-Great Lakes Maritime Task Force James, July 16, 2008 http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/ARCTIC_Coast_Guard_Icebreakers_Statement.pdf)

Since 2004, Lake Carriers’ Association has strongly advocated for additional deep-draft icebreaking and ice-capable U.S. Coast Guard vessels for the Great Lakes. Our requests (and prayers) have gone unanswered. We need one additional 140-foot-long Icebreaking Tug (WTGB) assigned to Duluth, Minnesota, to support operations on Lake Superior and an additional ice-strengthened 225-foot-long Seagoing Buoy Tender (WLB) assigned to Charlevoix, Michigan, to support operations on Lake Michigan and the Straits of Mackinac. I have attached copies of our correspondence with the U.S. Coast Guard for the record. Thank you for allowing me to make our case before this Subcommittee. Just as America’s northern interstates and roadways need to be plowed in the winter to facilitate traffic, our waterways need sufficient assets to remain conduits for waterborne commerce. Just as our cities and states use a mix of snowplows and police cruisers to serve the public and the public good, our U.S. Coast Guard uses a mix of vessels designed with a primary purpose, yet capable of multiple missions.


Contextual evidence
Morgan 11 (LT Benjamin Morgan- U.S. Coast Guard O ice of Maritime Transportation Systems, Spring 2011, “Domestic Icebreaking Operations”, http://www.uscg.mil/proceedings/archive/2011/Vol68_No1_Spr2011.pdf)
While domestic icebreaking operations may fall among the Coast Guard’s less glamorous assignments, this mission is important for maritime mobility and supports our national transportation infrastructure. Operations include establishing and maintaining tracks (paths through the ice) in connecting waterways during the winter navigation season, escorting vessels to ensure their transit is not impeded by ice, freeing vessels that become beset, clearing/relieving ice jams, removing obstructions or hazards to navigation, and advising mariners of current ice and waterways conditions. This vital icebreaking mission is executed domestically by one heavy icebreaker, nine ice-breaking tugs, 11 small harbor tugs, and 12 ice-capable buoy-tending vessels.


===2AC T-Transportation Infrastructure (old)=== 
We would also need to build a deep-water port- even if they win their interp we solve
Winnefeld 11 (ADMIRAL JAMES A. WINNEFELD, JR., U.S. NAVY COMMANDER 2011
[[http://www.northcom.mil/Docs/2011%20NORAD%20and%20USNORTHCOM%20Posture%20Statement%20(HASC%20Final).pdf]]
Because these changes involve a complex mosaic of issues, challenges, and opportunities,
AND
the table when our vital interests are at stake—without abdicating any sovereignty

Counter-interp- maritime transportation infrastructure includes icebreakers, prefer the specificity of this interp- we also have a case list
ESPO 3/12 (European Sea Ports Organization, March 12 2012, “Trans-European Transport Networks (TEN-T) Proposals for a Regulation on Union guidelines for the development of the TEN-T and a Regulation establishing the Connecting Europe Facility”, pdf)
Infrastructure components 1. Maritime transport infrastructure comprises in particular: (a) maritime
AND
, hydrological surveys, and dredging and maintenance of the port and port approaches

Even if they win that the plan increases vehicles we are T- the same reason their cases are T apply to vehicles
Oswald et al. 11 (Michelle Oswald, Qiang Li, Sue McNeil ,and Susanne Trimbath- quals in order: Bucknell University, Lewisburg, PA, USA, University of Delaware, Newark, DE, USA, STP Advisory Services, Bellevue, NE, USA, “Measuring Infrastructure Performance: Development of a National Infrastructure Index”, found via Sage Journals, pg. 378)
Defining the Infrastructure Sector A more technical definition of the transportation sector is The fixed
AND
and pipeline. (U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 2010a)

===2AC- T-in=== 

Counter-interpretation- only the investment has to occur in the US
Prefer it- Grammatically correct interps come first -- it's key to effective communication and understanding
Fish 02 - Dean of College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the University of Illinois at Chicago (Stanley, "Say it Ain't so" THE CHRONICLE, June 21, 2002, http://chronicle.com/article/Say-It-Ain-t-So/46137)//KL
Well, actually everyone knows what's going on. The art of speaking and writing
AND
is the purpose of writing, and it is preeminently a social purpose.

===2AC T-Increase=== 
Increase means to become larger or greater in quantity
Encarta Online Dictionary. 2006. ("Increase." <http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741>.)
in·crease [ in krss ] transitive and intransitive verb (past
AND
, quantity, or degree noun (plural in·creas·es)
==---Critiques---== 
=== === 
===2AC Cap=== 
Interpretation: the role of the ballot is to evaluate the simulated consequences of plan passage- anything else is a voting issue- it distracts away from the plan, which the stasis point for discussion, and would be unpredictable.

Net-benefit is transportation policy discussions- they are necessary to create real world change
Thomas 8 — Ren Thomas, Doctoral Student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia, 2008 (“Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning,” Critical Planning, Volume 15, Issue 1, Summer, Available Online at http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf, Accessed 07-30-2012, p. 19)
Canadian youth already participate in civic groups and insurgent political activities around sustainable transportation.
AND
civic initiatives, young people could be part of a more active citizenry.

Our knowledge production is accurate
DOUGLAS W. HANDS 84 Department of Economics University of Puget Sound What Economics Is Not: An Economist's Response to Rosenberg Source: Philosophy of Science, Vol. 51, No. 3 (Sep., 1984), pp. 495-503 http://www.jstor.org/stable/187496
While nowhere near the standards of the best natural science, applied economic theories (
AND
its predictive failings are not as great as Rosenberg would have us believe.
Cap solves environmental destruction---property rights create financial incentives for conservation
Pierre-Guy Veer 12 is an independent journalist writing for the Von Mises Institute, 5/2, “Cheer for the Environment, Cheer for Capitalism,” [[http://www.mises.ca/posts/blog/cheer-for-the-environment-cheer-for-capitalism/]]

No Ownership, No Responsibility How can such a negligence have happened? It’s simple
AND
the environment in a better manner. That way, everyone’s a winner.
Capitalism is biologically engrained---attempts to change will fail
Will Wilkinson 5 is a policy analyst at the Cato Institute, “Capitalism and Human Nature,” Cato Policy Report Vol. XXVII No. 1 (January/February 2005) http://www.cato.org/research/articles/wilkinson-050201.html
In the spring of 1845, Karl Marx wrote, ". . . the human
AND
few further features of the human mind and social organization in the EEA.
Perm solves – disengagment from politics destroys activism against capital – hypothesizing about policy making is key to creating space for the critique
David E. McClean, 2001, “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” Am. Phil. Conf., www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm
Yet for some reason, at least partially explicated in Richard Rorty's Achieving Our Country
AND
critics with their snobish disrespect for the so-called "managerial class."
Capitalism is sustainable---self-correcting
Leo Seabra 12 has a background in Communication and Broadcasting and a broad experience which includes activities in Marketing, Advertising, Sales and Public Relations, writes about technology, digital media, sports, travels, food and sustainability, 2/27, “Capitalism can drive Sustainability and also innovation,” http://seabraaffairs.wordpress.com/2012/02/27/capitalism-can-drive-sustainability-and-also-innovation/

There are those who say that if the world does not change their habits,
AND
to work without distortion. The rest he doeshimself. It regulates itself.


Cap key to freedom
Allan H. Meltzer 11 is a professor of Political Economy at Carnegie Mellon, “Why Capitalism?” 1/1 http://repository.cmu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1581&context=tepper&sei-redir=1

Capitalism survives and spreads because it recognizes Kant’s principle. People differ. Some give
AND
many; it meets the profits test. The market responds to demand.

Cap solves war
Doug Bandow 5 senior fellow at the Cato Institute, special assistant to President Reagan, 11/10, “Spreading Capitalism Is Good for Peace” [[http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/spreading-capitalism-is-good-peace]]

In a world that seems constantly aflame, one naturally asks: What causes peace
AND
turns out that peace is good business. And capitalism is good for peace
Innovation of technological structure is key to the future sustainability of growth – solves the environment, biotech, nanotech, disease, warming, famine
Baker 2k – Former Industrial Economist
Brent Barker, electrical engineer, and manager of corporate communications for the Electric Power Research Institute and former industrial economist and staff author at SRI International and as a commercial research analyst at USX Corporation, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability.” EPRI Journal, Summer, INFOTRAC
Sustainability has been the subject of much discussion and a steady stream of policy forums
AND
and private sectors. The rate of innovation is especially critical to sustainability.

===2AC Heidegger=== 

2. Extinction comes first.
Bok, 88 [Sissela, Professor of Philosophy, Brandeis, “Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory,” Ed. David Rosenthal and Fudlou Shehadi]
The same argument can be made for Kant’s other formulations of the Categorical Imperative:
AND
even killing an innocent person, in order that the world not perish.

6. We must deploy calculative technological modes of thought in order to gain a more proper understanding of being and save humanity
Dreyfus 93 (Hubert, Prof of Philosophy @ Cal-Berkeley, The Cambridge Companion to Heidegger, p.307-308)
Only those who think of Heidegger as opposing technology will be surprised at his next
AND
the danger, the saving power" (QCT 39; TK 39).


11. Preventing widespread death through the aff takes precedence to ontological questioning
Davidson 89 (Arnold I. Davidson, coeditor of Critical Inquiry, Assoc Prof of Philosophy, U of Chicago, Critical Inquiry, Winter 1989)
I understand Levinas’ work to suggest another path to the recovery of the human,
AND
but dust and ashes; and it is here that questioning must stop.

===2AC Nietzsche=== 
2. Extinction comes first.

Bok, 88 [Sissela, Professor of Philosophy, Brandeis, “Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory,” Ed. David Rosenthal and Fudlou Shehadi]

The same argument can be made for Kant’s other formulations of the Categorical Imperative:

AND

even killing an innocent person, in order that the world not perish.

6. Some suffering may be inevitable – but extreme suffering is unjustified

Edelglass, 6 (William, Department of Philosophy, Colby College in Maine, “Levinas on Suffering and Compassion,” Sophia, Volume 45, Issue 2, October 2006, pg. 43-59, SpringerLink, pdf, Tashma)

According to Levinas's phenomenology, mild discomfort can be mastered by consciousness. But,

AND

consider suffering to be evil only when it is both severe and unjustified.

10. Even if suffering is inevitable, we should act to lessen the intensity of suffering

Mayerfield 2 - Ph.D from Princeton, associate professor in the Political Science Department at the University of Washington

Jamie, Ph.D from Princeton, associate professor in the Political Science Department at the University of Washington, "Suffering and Moral Responsibility," 2002, book

If we try to locate the threshold of lexical priority within suffering, we might

AND

never be crossed if the only purpose is to bring happiness to others.
No link and Turn- political solutions to social domination don’t cause resentment, they resist it. Only the Alt contributes to a will-to-resentment.

Joan Picart, Prof English at Florida State, 1999 (Resentment and the "Feminine" in Nietzche's Politico-Aesthetics,Pennsylvania State University Press)
I agree with Levine that a truly postmodern philosophy must abandon the notion of a

AND

it to be paradigmatic of a direction I envisage myself moving toward. 175
Turn – the Smugness of Creativity - their Affirmation of Life is distorted by a new measurement of human worth based on a strength/weakness dualism that complicates the broader project of the Alternative. The Alt links to the Value to Life DA.

Ofelia Schutte 1984 (BEYOND NIHILISM: Nietzsche without Masks)
The main problem that appears to delimit Nietzsche's philosophical affirmation of life is his

AND

creativity is made to fit under a paradigm of domination. 189-190
Their framing of security makes violence and extinction inevitable

McCormack 10

[Tara McCormack, ’10, is Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Leicester and has a PhD in International Relations from the University of Westminster. 2010, (Critique, Security and Power: The political limits to emancipatory approaches, page 59-61)]

The following section will briefly raise some questions about the rejection of the old security

AND

the political limits of the framework proposed by critical and emancipatory theoretical approaches.
Discourse doesn’t shape Arctic reality – Realism is true in the arctic context

Watson 11 (Scott, dept of poli sci @ Univ of Victoria, International Studies Association Annual Convention 2011, "What We’ve Got Here, Is Failure to Securitise: Arctic Sovereignty and National Security in Canada", 3/16/11, URL won’t let you access the file unfortunately- if you need this card shoot me an email and I’ll send full text over)

Given the profound changes occurring in the Arctic region, the potential for military conflict

AND

been successful in terms of producing drastic policy change in the Canadian Arctic.
Security discourse affirms life

Fox, 85 (Assoc. Prof Phil. @ Queens, 1985, “Nuclear War: Philosophical Perspectives,” ed. Fox and Groarke, p. 127)
There remains but one choice: we must seek a reduction of world tensions,

AND

on behalf of that wondrous and fragile entity we know as human life.

===2AC Predictions=== 
1. Extinction comes first.
Bok, 88 [Sissela, Professor of Philosophy, Brandeis, “Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory,” Ed. David Rosenthal and Fudlou Shehadi]
The same argument can be made for Kant’s other formulations of the Categorical Imperative:
AND
even killing an innocent person, in order that the world not perish.

6. Rejecting strategic predictions of threats makes them inevitable—decision makers will rely on preconceived conceptions of threat rather than the more qualified predictions of analysts
Fitzsimmons, 2007 [Michael, Washington DC defense analyst, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06-07, online]

But handling even this weaker form of uncertainty is still quite challeng- ing.
AND
, such decisions may be poorly understood by the decision-makers themselves.

Education in good predictive models is necessary to allow for individual political predictive foresight that is necessary to prevent future catastrophe.
Kurasawa, 2004 – Associate Professor of Sociology at York University (Fuyuki, “Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight”, Constellations Volume 11, Issue 4, December 2004)
In the twenty-first century, the lines of political cleavage are being drawn
AND
to public deliberation about the construction of an alternative world order (IV).

The most complex and inclusive security models prove the accuracy and truth of our Arctic claims

Murray 12 (Professor of Political Science @ Alberta

Robert, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1, 4 pt font is for long passages without relevant information)

It is no overstatement
AND
state security strategies.

10. Even if they’re flawed- predictions are necessary
Cowen, 2004 – Professor of Economics at George Mason (Tyler, “The Epistemic Problem does not Refute Consequentialism, accessed through Cambridge Journals Online)//BZ

If we know for sure which remedy works, obviously we should apply that remedy
AND
uncertainty should not stop us from pursuing large upfront benefits of obvious importance.

===2AC Security=== 
Interpretation: the role of the ballot is to evaluate the simulated consequences of plan passage- anything else is a voting issue- it distracts away from the plan, which the stasis point for discussion, and would be unpredictable.

Net-benefit is transportation policy discussions- they are necessary to create real world change
Thomas 8 — Ren Thomas, Doctoral Student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia, 2008 (“Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning,” Critical Planning, Volume 15, Issue 1, Summer, Available Online at http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf, Accessed 07-30-2012, p. 19)
Canadian youth already participate in civic groups and insurgent political activities around sustainable transportation.
AND
civic initiatives, young people could be part of a more active citizenry.



Changing representational practices hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and material structures
Tuathail, 96-(Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)

While theoretical debates at academic conferences are important to academics, the discourse and concerns
AND
needs to always be open to the patterned mess that is human history.
Absolute rejection of security based politics leads to global injustices – only US forces can prevent global violence
Elshtain 3

Jean Bethke, Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics at the University of Chicago Divinity School, and is a contributing editor for The New Republic, Just War Against Terror

Peace is a good, and so is justice, but neither is an absolute
AND
, in the long run, the one most conducive to civic peace?


The alternative cannot overcome securitization. Humans CANNOT change the orientation of terror towards threats. It’s a natural product of evolution
Pyszczynski et al 6
Tom, Prof. Psych. – U. Colorado, Sheldon Solomon, Prof. Psych. – Skidmore College, Jeff Greenberg, Prof. Psych. – U. Arizona, and Molly Maxfield, U. Colorado, Psychological Inquiry, “On the Unique Psychological Import of the Human Awareness of Mortality: Theme and Variations” 17:4, Ebsco

Kirkpatrick and Navarette’s (this issue) first specific complaint with TMT is that it
AND
didn’t have the ability to instigate fear reactions in response to such threats?



Security discourse affirms life
Fox, 85 (Assoc. Prof Phil. @ Queens, 1985, “Nuclear War: Philosophical Perspectives,” ed. Fox and Groarke, p. 127)

There remains but one choice: we must seek a reduction of world tensions,
AND
on behalf of that wondrous and fragile entity we know as human life.

Our representations our good – focus on hegemonic opportunity key
Sadeh et. al., ’98 – professors at CEISS, Colorado State
[[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/science?_ob=RedirectURL&_method=outwardLink&_partnerName=27983&_origin=article&_zone=art_page&_linkType=scopusAuthorDocuments&_targetURL=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.scopus.com%2Fscopus%2Finward%2Fauthor.url%3FpartnerID%3D10%26rel%3D3.0.0%26sortField%3Dcited%26sortOrder%3Dasc%26author%3DSadeh,%2520E.%26authorID%3D6603044842%26md5%3Dc4129a930e9af495c196253eda4d7c20&_acct=C000007678&_version=1&_userid=99318&md5=2b40b1be48fae7ebacb7990d9e15d192|E. Sadeh]], [[http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/science?_ob=RedirectURL&_method=outwardLink&_partnerName=27983&_origin=article&_zone=art_page&_linkType=scopusAuthorDocuments&_targetURL=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.scopus.com%2Fscopus%2Finward%2Fauthor.url%3FpartnerID%3D10%26rel%3D3.0.0%26sortField%3Dcited%26sortOrder%3Dasc%26author%3DLester,%2520J.%2520P.%26authorID%3D7202753646%26md5%3D139538a6ef5c7e5d9cab4b5af9975081&_acct=C000007678&_version=1&_userid=99318&md5=529fbf6c881a748a84f68ced6816a68b|James P. Lester]], and [[http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/science?_ob=RedirectURL&_method=outwardLink&_partnerName=27983&_origin=article&_zone=art_page&_linkType=scopusAuthorDocuments&_targetURL=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.scopus.com%2Fscopus%2Finward%2Fauthor.url%3FpartnerID%3D10%26rel%3D3.0.0%26sortField%3Dcited%26sortOrder%3Dasc%26author%3DSadeh,%2520W.%2520Z.%26authorID%3D7003642062%26md5%3D702a184c09093e433957a64a808bc0e8&_acct=C000007678&_version=1&_userid=99318&md5=ccebf171139f75ea9c4ddbc50f486508|W. Z. Sadeh]], professors at the Center for Engineering Infrastructure and Sciences in Space at Colorado State University; “Modeling international cooperation in human space exploration for the twenty-first century;” published in [[http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/science/journal/00945765|Acta Astronautica]], [[http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/science?_ob=PublicationURL&_tockey=%23TOC%235679%231998%23999569992%23255099%23FLA%23&_cdi=5679&_pubType=J&view=c&_auth=y&_acct=C000007678&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=99318&md5=f4391b98e38c73e008e2b59599f9b394|Volume 43, Issues 7-8]], October 1998, Pages 427-435; Jay]
The pessimistic scenario is characterized by political and economic divisions. International cooperation (when
AND
to advance U.S. interests and policy preferences in space exploration.




===2AC Virillio=== 
Interpretation: the role of the ballot is to evaluate the simulated consequences of plan passage- anything else is a voting issue- it distracts away from the plan, which the stasis point for discussion, and would be unpredictable.


Extinction comes first.
Bok, 88 [Sissela, Professor of Philosophy, Brandeis, “Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory,” Ed. David Rosenthal and Fudlou Shehadi]
The same argument can be made for Kant’s other formulations of the Categorical Imperative:
AND
even killing an innocent person, in order that the world not perish.

Virilio’s essentializing criticism fails without a connection to politics. Without openness to technology, his flawed assumptions overlook the value of the military and innovation in technology- the perm resolves these flaws
Kellner, 2003 – critical theorist in the Frankfurt Institute for Social Research, George Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education in the GSEI at UCLA (Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, illuminations: the critical theory project, [[http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm]]) //BZ
By eschewing critical social theory, Virilio does not have the resources to theorize the
AND
abstains from developing the normative perspective from which he carries out his critique.

Virilio’s basic assumption is flawed. Speed of tech doesn’t ruin the political—Opposite is true
Grove ‘8
Jairus Victor Grove is a Ph.D. candidate at Johns Hopkins University in International Relations and Political Theory. His research focuses on the new materialities of politics and warfare. He studies the effects of new forms of warfare on soldiers and civilian populations in urban settings.
Chapter 1: A Schmittian Century?: From Nuclear Leviathan to Nuclear-Sovereign-Assemblage – March 17, 2008 – http://becomingwar.blogspot.com/2008/03/chapter-1-schmittian-century-from.html
Initially nuclear weapons seemed to solidify even complete the decisionistic model of sovereignty once and
AND
many levels the Nuclear-sovereign-assemblage can be engaged or reterritorialized.

Speed K doesn’t apply to transportation – overstretches a military thesis.
Kellner ‘99
(Douglas, George F. Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education, UCLA – “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections," Theory, Culture and Society, Vol. 16(5-6), 1999: 103-125, http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm)
In _Speed and Politics_ (1986 [1977]), Virilio undertakes his first
AND
momentous and dramatic transformation of every aspect of our social and everyday life.
Here is the kicker - epistemology K of Virilio
A) editor writes his args, hides his fascism, and writes passages to sell books.

Federici ‘87
This card is quoting Virilio – Silvia Federici is a Teaching Fellow at Hofstra – Here, she has obtained a transcript of Virilio’s final editorial meeting prior to releasing his book called Pure War A Review Play on Paul Virilio/Sylvere Lotringer, Pure War Author(s): Silvia Federici and George Caffentzis Reviewed work(s):Source: Social Text, No. 17 (Autumn, 1987), pp. 97-105Published by: Duke University PressStable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/466480 .

S: I don't care if you are right. Personally, I don't want
AND
POINT OF VIEW I FEEL CLOSER TO RURAL SOCIETIES THAN TO MY CONTEMPORARIES.
B) This speaks for itself:

Federici ‘87
This card is quoting Virilio – Silvia Federici is a Teaching Fellow at Hofstra – Here, she has obtained a transcript of Virilio’s final editorial meeting prior to releasing his book called Pure War A Review Play on Paul Virilio/Sylvere Lotringer, Pure War Author(s): Silvia Federici and George Caffentzis Reviewed work(s):Source: Social Text, No. 17 (Autumn, 1987), pp. 97-105Published by: Duke University PressStable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/466480 .

P: But I'll make a fool of myself. Americans may be naive,
AND
English, Italian and German, followed by the slamming of a door.)

(Note: the “P” that is talking in this evidence is Paul Virilio)

(Note: the “S” that’s talking in this evidence is Virilio’s then-editor Sylvere Lotringer)

==---Disadvantages---== 
===2AC DA Impact Magnifier (For Sovereignty)=== 
Lack of a stable distinction makes war inevitable- and those wars are infinitely worse than possible wars resulting from the plan
Pourciau 6 (Sarah, Johns Hopkins University, “Bodily Negation: Carl Schmitt on the Meaning of Meaning” MLN 120.5, Project Muse MGE)
A worldview that does not allow for the role of constitutive negation must wage continual
AND
das nicht nur abgewehrt, sondern definitiv vernichtet werden muß" (36)].
===2AC Credit Rating=== 
1) Next budget deal is key – the plan is irrelevant OR AA decline is inevitable.
Forbes, 9/11 (“Moody’s says US has until end of 2013 to save AAA rating,” September 11, 2012, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/steveschaefer/2012/09/11/moodys-says-u-s-has-until-end-of-2013-to-save-aaa-rating/]])
Next year’s budget negotiations “will likely determine the direction of the US government’s Aaa
AND
could rebound from the shock before considering a return to a stable outlook.
3) Alt cause – debt ceiling fights.
Forbes, 9/11 (“Moody’s says US has until end of 2013 to save AAA rating,” September 11, 2012, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/steveschaefer/2012/09/11/moodys-says-u-s-has-until-end-of-2013-to-save-aaa-rating/]])
Another wrinkle in the Moody’s note Tuesday: the ratings agency says that maintaining its
AND
partisan spat that in large part led to the S&P downgrade.

4) Turn – empirically downgrades cause US treasuries to rally or investors ignore the rating. There’s no market like the US.
Detrixhe, 9/11 – government bonds and currency reporter for Bloomberg News (John, “Moody’s Says US Faces Aaa Cut Without Budget Deal in 2012,” September 11, 2012, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-s-rating-may-be-cut-by-moody-s-if-debt-to-gdp-not-reduced-1-.html]])
Moody’s put the rating under review with a negative outlook in August 2011, when
AND
find a bond market that has the depth of liquidity that Treasuries do.”

No causal relationship – ignores other variables
Ferguson 6-Niall Ferguson (Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University and a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University) 2006 Foreign Affairs, September/October, Vol. 85, Issue 5
Nor can economic crises explain the bloodshed. What may be the most familiar causal
AND
economic catastrophe, and some severe economic crises were not followed by wars.
===2AC Elections=== 
Increasing military spending and supporting the military takes a key issue from Romney and helps Obama in key states
The Hill 9/16, (Justin Sink, “Romney to attack Obama as weak leader on foreign, domestic affairs”, http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/249703-romney-to-attack-obama-as-weak-leader-on-foreign-domestic-affairs)
“Amid all these threats and dangers, what we do not see is
AND
large military installations. The foreign policy is just setting up the debate.”

Ohio takes out the DA- incumbency advantage locks it up
Rogers, 9-28 -- Time contributor
(Alex, "How Obama Is Leveraging the Power of the Incumbency in Swing States," Time, 9-28-12, swampland.time.com/2012/09/28/how-obama-is-leveraging-the-power-of-the-incumbency-in-swing-states/, accessed 9-28-12, mss)

President Obama has a soft spot for the state of Ohio, a crucial swing
AND
swing states than noncompetitive states. That’s an advantage no challenger can match.

XO’s mean only a risk of a turn – mitigate GOP backlash while appealing to the base
Dorning 12 (Mike, staff writer for Bloomberg, March 1, 2012, “Obama's New Campaign Weapon: His Pen,” [[http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-03-01/obamas-new-campaign-weapon-his-pen]])
As he gets ready for the fall campaign, Barack Obama is working to win
AND
. It “creates a sense with his base voters that he’s fighting.”


Military spending overwhelms all their links- defense is a magic word
Maddow, 11 -- MSNBC show host, political commentator
(Rachel, Rachel Maddow Show for March 25, 2011, MSNBC, 3-25-11, l/n, accessed 9-30-12, mss)

Case in point: there is a magic word in Washington politics. The well
AND
arms race build up of the Reagan years has been unquestionable in America.

(1AR) XOs aren’t perceived- and if they are they’re popular
Branum, 2 (Tara, Journal of Legislation, “President or King? The use and abuse of executive orders in modern-day America,” Branum is an Associate, Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P., lexis)
Another factor contributing to the growth in presidential lawmaking is the change in public attitude
AND
into his office and say, "Sign this executive order today!" 272
===2AC Elections- Iran Strikes Defense=== 
Even with strikes, escalation is unlikely – no country has an incentive to go to war
Rogan 8/18/12 – degree in war studies from King's College London and an MSc in Middle East politics (Thomas, Guardian, “Israel could attack Iran without causing a major war in the region”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/aug/18/israeli-attack-iran)
While it is impossible to know for sure whether Netanyahu will act, it is
AND
pursuit of differing long-term objectives but common short-term ones.
===2AC Elections- Warming Defense=== 
Err neg – aff authors overestimate warming and underestimate adaptation
Goklany 11 - a science and technology policy analyst for the United States Department of the Interior (Indur M., “Misled on Climate Change: How the UN IPCC (and others) Exaggerate the Impacts of Global Warming” December 2011, [[http://goklany.org/library/Reason%20CC%20and%20Development%202011.pdf]])
A third approach would be to fix the root cause of why developing countries are
AND
while cellular phone users went from 0 per 100 to 33 per 100.

Empirical trends disprove warming impacts
Goklany 11 - a science and technology policy analyst for the United States Department of the Interior (Indur M., “Misled on Climate Change: How the UN IPCC (and others) Exaggerate the Impacts of Global Warming” December 2011, [[http://goklany.org/library/Reason%20CC%20and%20Development%202011.pdf]])
Discussion and Conclusions Despite claims that GW will reduce human well-being in poor
AND
been, overall, a very significant benefit to people in poor countries.
===2AC Elections (old)=== 
Can’t predict the election- black swans empirically can alter the election- release of drunk-driving arrest for Bush proves

Reject their polls- they are skewed in Obama’s favor- most qualified and unbiased sources have the election dead even
Giokaris Today (John Giokaris- member of the free market think tank Illinois Policy Institute's Leadership Coalition team and writer for Policymic, September 23, 2012 “Presidential Polls 2012: Skewed Polling and Biased Media Coverage Give Obama False Advantage Over Romney”, http://www.policymic.com/articles/15219/presidential-polls-2012-skewed-polling-and-biased-media-coverage-give-obama-false-advantage-over-romney)
Polling The liberal mainstream media and blogosphere are desperately trying to write Romney’s funeral using
AND
, both are showing the same thing: this race is virtually tied.


Link ev doesn’t pass the test- it doesn’t say plan affects the moderates in the election that would change their vote

Increasing military spending and supporting the military takes a key issue from Romney and helps Obama in key states
The Hill 9/16, (Justin Sink, “Romney to attack Obama as weak leader on foreign, domestic affairs”, http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/249703-romney-to-attack-obama-as-weak-leader-on-foreign-domestic-affairs)
“Amid all these threats and dangers, what we do not see is
AND
large military installations. The foreign policy is just setting up the debate.”


No link uniqueness- federal transport bill
The Hotline ‘12
(July 2, 2012 Monday – lexis)
"Congress gave final approval on" June 29 "to legislation that combines a
AND
July 1. (Everett/Snider, Politico, 6/29)

===2AC Fiscal Cliff=== 
Cliff won’t pass – ideology overwhelms any negative warrants and the talks wont have any effect until December.

Politico 11/15 - http://www.politico.com/blogs/on-congress/2012/11/what-fiscal-cliff-senate-leaves-town-149708.html?hp=f2, Manu Raja, Politico Writer

About that whole year-end fiscal cliff thing that could throw the country back

AND

but senators from both parties pushed for a shortened election-year schedule.
Obama has no leverage in talks- proves they’ll fail

Herb and Wasson 10/23 Jeremy Herb and Erik Wasson, writers for the Hill, “GOP: Obama's sequester remark during debate could reshape fiscal cliff talks”, October 23, 2012, http://thehill.com/blogs/defcon-hill/budget-appropriations/263523-obama-sequester-remark-could-reshape-fiscal-cliff-negotiations

President Obama’s vow at Monday’s debate that the sequestration cuts “will not happen”

AND

were immediately trying to walk it back,” said one GOP House aide.
Congress wants to increase the number of icebreakers – it’d be cost efficient and create jobs- and cantwell and young push the aff

Jim Abrams, The Associated Press, 11-4-11, “Congress, White House differ on CG icebreakers”, http://www.navytimes.com/news/2011/11/ap-coast-guard-white-house-congress-differ-ice-breakers-110411/, ACC: 3.2.12, p. online

In the Senate, Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., is trying

AND

four medium-duty icebreakers to meet Coast Guard and Navy mission requirements.

Larsen pushing icebreakers now- means Obama doesn’t need to push the plan

Lance Dickie, 12-13-11, “The Coast Guard needs new icebreakers to protect U.S. interests in the Arctic”, Seattle Times, http://www.standard.net/stories/2011/12/13/coast-guard-needs-new-icebreakers-protect-us-interests-arctic, ACC: 3.2.12, p. online

U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., is working

AND

, and national defense," the Coast Guard reported to Congress in 2008.
Defense hawks are key to pass fiscal cliff- plan doesn’t effect them

The Hill 12

Becker 9/21/12 The Hill’s Finance & Economy Blog

(Bernie and Erik Wasson, GOP fears reelected Obama would have the upper hand on taxes, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/domestic-taxes/251095-gop-fears-reelected-obama-would-have-leverage-to-raise-taxes)
But Republicans are also eager to avoid the automatic spending cuts set to start in

AND

a high-end tax increase. “Enough [votes], probably.”
Winners win

Marshall and Prins 11 (BRYAN W, Miami University and BRANDON C, University of Tennessee & Howard H. Baker, Jr. Center for Public Policy, “Power or Posturing? Policy Availability and Congressional Influence on U.S. Presidential Decisions to Use Force”, Sept, Presidential Studies Quarterly 41, no. 3)

Presidents rely heavily on Congress in converting their political capital into real policy success.

AND

made with an eye toward managing political capital at home (Fordham 2002).

Military spending is popular and overwhelms their links- proves no backlash

Maddow, 11 -- MSNBC show host, political commentator

(Rachel, Rachel Maddow Show for March 25, 2011, MSNBC, 3-25-11, l/n, accessed 9-30-12, mss)

Case in point: there is a magic word in Washington politics. The well

AND

arms race build up of the Reagan years has been unquestionable in America.

Impact is gradual and will be resolved before the worst sets in

Chait 11/8—NY Mag (Jonathan, Erskine Bowles Bids to Spoil Obama Second Term, nymag.com/daily/intel/2012/11/erskine-bowles-bids-to-spoil-obama-second-term.html)

That is totally false.¶ Going over the fiscal cliff and then doing nothing for

AND

a tax cut. He’ll likewise have huge defense cuts to bargain away.

Some passage is inevitable- even a bad bill solves

Gold, 11/2 (Howard, columnist for MarketWatch and editor at large for MoneyShow.com, “Stop obsessing over the fiscal cliff,” http://www.marketwatch.com/story/stop-obsessing-over-the-fiscal-cliff-2012-11-02)

If I had to guess, I’d say the payroll tax and extra unemployment benefits

AND

brouhaha over the fiscal cliff is just noise that investors can safely ignore.


==---Counterplans---== 
===2AC Alaska CP=== 
Plan happens outside state jurisdiction- CP is impossible
US Legal No Date (USlegal.com, “Legal Definitions- Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Law & Legal Definition”, http://definitions.uslegal.com/o/outer-continental-shelf-lands-act/)
The Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) is the part of the internationally recognized continental
AND
Gulf of Mexico Region, Atlantic Region, Pacific Region and Alaska Region.


Plan is key to shipbuilding
O'Rourke 10 (Ronald- Naval specialist and congressional consultant, 9/29, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: ¶ Background, Issues, and Options for Congress”, http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc29706/m1/1/high_res_d/RL34391_2010Sep29.pdf)
The status of the U.S. shipbuilding industrial base, particularly the part that builds military ships
for the U.S. government, has been a concern in Congress and elsewhere since the early 1990s,
following the end of the cold war, when the rate of Navy shipbuilding declined
AND
in their construction for a ¶ period of a few or several years.
And, a strong maritime and shipbuilding industry is a vital pre requisite to credible naval capabilities
Alberto, et al., 5 (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)
In conclusion, our study found that the tremendous advantage the US enjoys in naval
AND
skyrocket out of proportion to the value to the nation of the vessel.

USFG investment is key to shipbuilding- non military purchases are at an all time low, the only option is increasing those procurements
Cropsey 12 (Seth-PhD, Senior Fellow @ Hudson, 4/18, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropsey, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf)
Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But accelerating cost, an ¶
AND
personnel turnover ¶ and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.

===2AC Alaska PTX DA=== 
Alaskan oil tax reform will get passed in January, but the fight will be huge- new spending issues like the CP guarantee failure
Bohrer 11/19 (Becky- AP staff writer, “Oil taxes to be major issue in Alaska legislative session”, http://newsminer.com/view/full_story/20886124/article-Oil-taxes-to-be-major-issue-in-Alaska-legislative-session-?instance=alaska_news)
JUNEAU, Alaska - Republicans are looking to capitalize on their newfound control of the
AND
of the state capital budget, will chair Senate Health and Social Services.

CP would need to use rainy day funds to solve
Harris 12 – Marlys Harris | investigative reporter and editor with specialties in consumer protection and finance for Money Magazine and Consumer Reports. 02/29/12. MinnPost. http://www.minnpost.com/politicspolicy/2012/02/outlook-state-budgets-getting-brighter-far-rosy
For starters, some states' success derives less from fiscal discipline than dumb luck.
AND
surplus from its bank franchise tax, as the card business gradually improves.

Using Rainy day funds is politically unpopular, guarantees backlash
Fikac 11 (Peggy- Austin Bureau staff writer, March 1 2011, “Despite Parry’s Objections, Republicans Eye Rainy Day Fund”, http://www.chron.com/news/houston-texas/article/Despite-Perry-s-objections-Republicans-eye-rainy-1686301.php)
Top House Republicans are proposing to spend nearly $4.3 billion from the
AND
lawmakers could find themselves in another budget bind in the next legislative session.

Changing the oil tax is key to the creation of the new Alaska natural gas pipeline
Bradner 11/21 (Tim- Alaska Journal of Commerce Writer, “LNG project is linked to oil tax change, producers say”, http://www.alaskajournal.com/Alaska-Journal-of-Commerce/November-Issue-4-2012/LNG-project-is-linked-to-oil-tax-change-producers-say/)
All three major North Slope producing companies say progress on a large natural gas pipeline
AND
pipeline and mixed with crude oil in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System.

The pipeline is key to manufacturing and production
Gilber and Fowler 10/4 (Daniel and Tom- WSJ writers, “Natural Gas Glut Pushes Exports”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390444223104578036403362012318.html)
A consortium including Exxon Mobil Corp., XOM +0.36% ConocoPhillips Co
AND
the plant that would convert the gas into liquid for export on tankers.
Manufacturing is key to advanced manufacturing and R&D
Lind 12 (Michael Lind is policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation. Joshua Freedman is a program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program. “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” pg online @ http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf //um-ef)
Manufacturing, R&D and the U.S. Innovation Ecosystem Perhaps the
AND
from 20-30 percent in 2007 to 50 percent by 2020.33

Makes war impossible
Paone 9 (Chuck, 66th Air Base Wing Public Affairs for the US Air Force, 8-10-09, “Technology convergence could prevent war, futurist says,” http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123162500)

The convergence of "exponentially advancing technologies" will form a "super-intelligence
AND
systems or products, he says, even if people don't know it.

===2AC Alaska CP (old)=== 

Here’s more ev- MDA impossible without Coast Guard Arctic awareness
Salerno 11 (Brian M. Salerno- Vice Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard Deputy Commandant for Operations, April 26 2011, “U.S. COAST GUARD ARCTIC STRATEGIC APPROACH”, http://www.uscg.mil/directives/ci/16000-16999/CI_16003_1.pdf)
MDA: It results from the full integration of situational awareness and intelligence. Greater
AND
and industry partners and the myriad of informative sources available in the region.

CP fiats we build the ships- that takes decades means they don’t solve- plan leases in the short term which avoids the deficit
Hirsh 12, Steve Hirsh, director of communications at Vigor Industrial, March 2012, “Breaking Ice,” http://www.uscgf-kmi.com/cgf-home/388-cgf-2012-volume-4-issue-1-march/5281-protecting-the-last-frontier.html
A new class of Coast Guard icebreaker is welcome but is estimated to be a
AND
the world so that the service and the nation are always ready.

Perm do the CP- perm is T- it would be a bareboat charter- which involves federal investment
Buisnessdictionary.com no date (“demise charter”, http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/demise-charter.html)
Ship leasing arrangement
AND
a bareboat charter.

Alaska has already spent its infrastructure budget for this year
Mary Kauffman 5/15/12 (sitnews reporter Ketchikan, Alaska) Governor Parnell Signs BudgetIncludes Priority Projects for Southeast Alaska, http://www.sitnews.us/0512News/051512/051412_budget_signed.html
The capital budget will fund many important transportation and infrastructure projects across the state.
AND
down payment on the second new ferry for the Alaska Marine Highway System.
===2AC LOST CP=== 
Maritime Domain Awareness key to naval power
Forbes 10- Andrew Forbes, Deputy Director (Research) at the Sea Power Centre – Australia, Visiting Senior Fellow at the Australian National Centre for Ocean Resources and Security, University of Wollongong, Research Fellow at the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies at Dalhousie University, Associate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy, Defence Academy of the UK; and Member of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, 2010, “Maritime Capacity Building in the Asia-Pacific Region”, Australian Maritime Affairs, n30
In order to manage its maritime security a state must know what merchant shipping is
AND
picture as well as the ability to supplement it with its own sensors.

Icebreakers are necessary to fulfill LOST
NRC, 2007, National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1, ACC: 9.24.11, p. 84
In addition to the basic requirement for access, in the next decade there may
AND
central Arctic Ocean and the underlying sedimentary records of past climate and geological evolution

Doesn’t make sense – Russia planting a flag on the North Pole but this doesn’t mean they get to claim it – we’re not in the Middle Ages anymore
CG access and action in the Arctic is a pre-requisite to legal regimes- that access also leads to them- empirics are on our side
Salerno 11 (Brian M. Salerno- Vice Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard Deputy Commandant for Operations, April 26 2011, “U.S. COAST GUARD ARCTIC STRATEGIC APPROACH”, http://www.uscg.mil/directives/ci/16000-16999/CI_16003_1.pdf)
Legal Regimes and Partnerships: Statutes, regulations, international agreements, conventions, and
AND
leadership in a comprehensive approach to meet national policy objectives in the Arctic.
We control uniqueness – without LOST, Russia doesn’t have legal power over us – but once we ratify LOST, they can get the rest of the countries to vote against us and give themselves unlimited control over the North Pole
Center for Security Policy, 7 (“Russia’s Use of Lost”, http://www.rejectlost.org/Russia_s_Use_of_Lost.html, Website maintained by CSP)
Russia’s claims are completely without technical merit. The Lomonosov Ridge is not an extension
AND
This would essentially give Russia a virtual monopoly over the North Pole region.

===2AC NMS CP=== 

Should doesn’t mean unconditional
Atlas Collaboration 99 [ATD, Jan. 24, http://rd13doc.cern.ch/Atlas/DaqSoft/sde/inspect/shall.html]
'shall' describes something that is mandatory. If a requirement uses 'shall', then that requirement _will_ be satisfied without fail. Noncompliance is not allowed. Failure to comply with one single 'shall' is sufficient reason to reject the entire product. Indeed, it must be rejected under these circumstances. Examples: "Requirements shall make use of the word 'shall' only where compliance is mandatory." This is a good example. "C++ code shall have comments every 5th line." This is a bad example. Using 'shall' here is too strong. should 'should' is weaker. It describes something that might not be satisfied in the final product, but that is desirable enough that any noncompliance shall be explicitly justified. Any use of 'should' should be examined carefully, as it probably means that something is not being stated clearly. If a 'should' can be replaced by a 'shall', or can be discarded entirely, so much the better.

“Resolved” is a formal resolution made by a deliberative body that's a quote from American Heritage Dictionary 2K--- means it’s just a formality the topic committee sustains from year to year
American Heritage Dictionary 2k
Resolved – v. A formal resolution made by a deliberative body.

NMS fails – it’ll quickly be ignored
Kroesen '4 – former commander in chief of US Army in Europe, senior fellow of AUSA's Institute of Land Warfare (Frederick J., August, "The National Military Strategy," Army, 54(8), ProQuest, RG)
That final paragraph, in two words-"appropriately resourced"-sums up one of
AND
it is time to refer to it in preparation of the next edition.

CP tips the balance too far and collapses CMR --- the military should take an active role over tactical decisions, not broad political ones
Desch 7 (Michael C., Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security Decision-making at the George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service – Texas A&M University, “Bush and the Generals”, Foreign Affairs, May/June, Lexis)
Defense Secretary Gates now faces a doubly difficult situation: little real progress has been
AND
off-kilter in either direction, the country suffers as a result.

===2AC Private CP=== 
Here’s more ev- Icebreakers must be CG owned
NRC, 2007, National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1, ACC: 9.24.11, p. 84
In addition to the basic requirement for access, in the next decade there may
AND
there may be multiple, simultaneous demands for icebreaker presence in the Arctic.

Private companies can’t solve Coast Guard mission
O’Rourke 6/14
Specialist in Naval Affairs, Congressional Research Service, Quote from July 2010 Coast Guard High Latitude Study, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress,” [[http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc85474/]]
The multi-mission nature of the Coast Guard may provide opportunities to conduct some
AND
point, around 2020, the heavy icebreaking capability bridging strategy expires.18


===2AC QTR CP=== 
The review was created only to implement new energy iniatives- aff isn’t one proves the CP is impossible
Koonin 11 (DR. STEVEN E. KOONIN - FORMER UNDER SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE at DOE, July 11 2011, “Department of Energy to Host Final Quadrennial Technology Review Workshop”, http://energy.gov/articles/department-energy-host-final-quadrennial-technology-review-workshop)
Last year, The President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST)
AND
innovation—now called the DOE Quadrennial Technology Review (DOE-QTR).


Resolved means to deliberate or consult- that’s a quote from
Merriam Webster 9 [[[@http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved]]]
# Main Entry: 1re·solve # Pronunciation: \ri-ˈzälv, -ˈzȯlv also -ˈzäv or -ˈzȯv\ # Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): resolved; re·solv·ing 1 : to become separated into component parts; also : to become reduced by dissolving or analysis 2 : to form a resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate

Should is used to express probability or expectation- that’s a quote from
WEBSTER'S II, 1984, p. 1078
Should - used to express probability or expectation. They should arrive here soon.

Substantially means to a large degree.
Words & Phrases 2 (Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “Substantially,” Volume 40B, p. 324-330 October 2002, Thomson West)
N.D.Ill. 2002. Under ADA, “substantially” in phrase substantially limits, means considerable, or to a large degree.

1. Won’t escalate
Salehyan, 07 – Assistant Professor of Political Science at University of Northern Texas (Idean, “The New Myth About Climate Change”, Foreign Policy, August 2007, May 29th 2010, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=3922]], KONTOPOULOS)
Dire scenarios like these may sound convincing, but they are misleading. Even worse
AND
Paris are at least as culpable for Darfur as the regime in Khartoum.

2. Resource abundance not shortage causes conflict
Dupont, 08 – Michael Hintze Professor of International Security and Director of the Centre for International Security Studies @ U of Sydney (Alan, June 2008, Survival, Vol. 50, Iss. 3, “The Strategic Implications of Climate Change”, p. 43)
Many of these projections are highly speculative or simply misleading, betraying the authors’ lack
AND
would lead either to reconsider their long-standing aversion to nuclear weapons.


Status quo makes energy insecurity inevitable, plan key to contain escalation
Revkin, senior fellow at the Pace Academy for Applied Environmental Studies at Pace University, ‘8 (Andrew, August 19, The International Herald Tribune “Russian icebreakers challenge U.S. role in Arctic” lexis)
A growing array of American military leaders, Arctic experts and lawmakers say the United
AND
opening to commerce - and potential conflict and hazards - like never before.


=*CCS Aff*= 
==1AC CCS V1== 
===1ac Plan=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in backbone pipeline transportation of captured carbon in the United States.

===Contention 1- Warming=== 
Contention 1 is warming
Climate change accelerating fast – must act now to stop warming.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lean 7</span> Environment Editor for The Independent
[Geoffrey Lean, June 3 2007, The Independent, “Global warming 'is three times faster than worst predictions'”, <http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/climate-change/global-warming-is-three-times-faster-than-worst-predictions-451529.html>]
Global warming is accelerating three times more quickly than feared, a series of startling, authoritative studies has revealed. They have found that emissions of carbon dioxide have been rising at thrice the rate in the 1990s. The Arctic ice cap is melting three times as fast - and the seas are rising twice as rapidly - as had been predicted.News of the studies - which are bound to lead to calls for even tougher anti-pollution measures than have yet been contemplated - comes as the leaders of the world's most powerful nations prepare for the most crucial meeting yet on tackling climate change.The issue will be top of the agenda of the G8 summit which opens in the German Baltic resort of Heiligendamm on Wednesday, placing unprecedented pressure on President George Bush finally to agree to international measures. Tony Blair flies to Berlin today to prepare for the summit with its host, Angela Merkel, the German chancellor. They will discuss how to tackle President Bush, who last week called for action to deal with climate change, which his critics suggested was instead a way of delaying international agreements. Yesterday, there were violent clashes in the city harbour of Rostock between police and demonstrators, during a largely peaceful march of tens of thousands of people protesting against the summit. The study, published by the US National Academy of Sciences, shows that carbon dioxide emissions have been increasing by about 3 per cent a year during this decade, compared with 1.1 per cent a year in the 1990s.The significance is that this is much faster than even the highest scenario outlined in this year's massive reports by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) - and suggests that their dire forecasts of devastating harvests, dwindling water supplies, melting ice and loss of species are likely to be understating the threat facing the world. The study found that nearly three-quarters of the growth in emissions came from developing countries, with a particularly rapid rise in China. The country, however, will resist being blamed for the problem, pointing out that its people on average still contribute only about a sixth of the carbon dioxide emitted by each American. And, the study shows, developed countries, with less than a sixth of the world's people, still contribute more than two-thirds of total emissions of the greenhouse gas. On the ground, a study by the University of California's National Snow and Ice Data Center shows that Arctic ice has declined by 7.8 per cent a decade over the past 50 years, compared with an average estimate by IPCC computer models of 2.5 per cent.




C02 emissions causes global warming, the newest research addresses skeptics
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ORLCF 4/4 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility, April 4, 2012, http://www.olcf.ornl.gov/2012/04/04/carbon-dioxide-caused-global-warming-at-ice-ages-end-pioneering-simulation-shows/)</span>
Climate science has an equivalent to the “what came first—the chicken or the egg?” question: What came first, greenhouse gases or global warming? A multi-institutional team led by researchers at Harvard, Oregon State University, and the University of Wisconsin used a global dataset of paleoclimate records and the Jaguar supercomputer at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) to find the answer (spoiler alert: carbon dioxide drives warming). The results, published in the April 5 issue of Nature, analyze 15,000 years of climate history. Scientists hope amassing knowledge of the causes of natural global climate change will aid understanding of human-caused climate change. “We constructed the first-ever record of global temperature spanning the end of the last ice age based on 80 proxy temperature records from around the world,” said Jeremy Shakun, a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Climate and Global Change postdoctoral fellow at Harvard and Columbia Universities and first author of the paper. “It’s no small task to get at global mean temperature. Even for studies of the present day you need lots of locations, quality-controlled data, careful statistics. For the past 21,000 years, it’s even harder. But because the data set is large enough, these proxy data provide a reasonable estimate of global mean temperature.” Proxy records from around the world—derived from ice cores and ocean and lake sediments—provide estimates of local surface temperature throughout history, and carbon-14 dating indicates when those temperatures occurred. For example, water molecules harboring the oxygen-18 isotope rain out faster than those containing oxygen-16 as an air mass cools, so the ratio of these isotopes in glacial ice layers tells scientists how cold it was when the snow fell. Likewise, the amount of magnesium incorporated into the shells of marine plankton depends on the temperature of the water they live in, and these shells get preserved on the seafloor when they die. The authors combined these local temperature records to produce a reconstruction of global mean temperature. Additionally, samples of ancient atmosphere are trapped as air bubbles in glaciers, providing a direct measure of carbon dioxide levels through time that could be compared to the global temperature record. Being the first to reconstruct global mean temperatures throughout this time interval allowed the researchers to show what many suspected but none could yet prove: “This is the first paper to definitively show the role carbon dioxide played in helping to end the last ice age,” said Shakun, who co-wrote the paper with Peter Clark of Oregon State University. “We found that global temperature mirrored and generally lagged behind rising carbon dioxide during the last deglaciation, which points to carbon dioxide as the major driver of global warming.” Prior results based on Antarctic ice cores had indicated that local temperatures in Antarctica started warming before carbon dioxide began rising, which implied that carbon dioxide was a feedback to some other leading driver of warming. The delay of global temperature behind carbon dioxide found in this study, however, shows that the ice-core perspective does not apply to the globe as a whole and instead suggests that carbon dioxide was the primary driver of worldwide warming. While the geologic record showed a remarkable correlation between carbon dioxide and global temperature, the researchers also turned to state-of-the-art model simulations to further pin down the direction of causation suggested by the temperature lag. Jaguar recently ran approximately 14 million processor hours to simulate the most recent 21,000 years of Earth’s climate. Feng He of the University of Wisconsin, Madison, a postdoctoral researcher, plugged the main forcings driving global climate over this time interval into an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)–class model called the Community Climate System Model version 3, a global climate model that couples interactions between atmosphere, oceans, lands, and sea ice. The climate science community developed the model with support from the National Science Foundation (NSF), Department of Energy (DOE), and National Aeronautics and Space Administration and used many codes developed by university researchers. “Our model results are the first IPCC-class Coupled General Circulation Model (CGCM) simulation of such a long duration (15,000 years),” said He, who conducted the modeling with Zhengyu Liu of the University of Wisconsin–Madison and Bette Otto-Bliesner of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). “This is of particular significance to the climate community because it shows, for the first time, that at least one of the CGCMs used to predict future climate is capable of reproducing both the timing and amplitude of climate evolution seen in the past under realistic climate forcing.” The group ran simulations that used 4.7 million processor hours in 2009, 6.6. million in 2010, and 2.5 million in 2011. The Innovative and Novel Computational Impact on Theory and Experiment program, jointly managed by leadership computing facilities at Argonne and Oak Ridge National Laboratories, awarded the allocations. Shaun Marcott and Alan Mix of Oregon State University analyzed data, and Andreas Schmittner, also of Oregon State, interpreted links between ocean currents and carbon dioxide. Edouard Bard of Centre Européen de Recherche et d’Enseignement des Géosciences de l’Environnement provided data and expertise about radiocarbon calibration. NSF supported this research through its Paleoclimate Program for the Paleovar Project and NCAR. The researchers used resources of the Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility, located in the National Center for Computational Sciences at ORNL, which is supported by DOE’s Office of Science. The paleoclimate community generated the proxy data sets and provided unpublished results of the DATED Project on retreat history of the Eurasian ice sheets. The NOAA NGDC and PANGAEA databases were also essential to this work.




<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">There’s 97% consensus it’s human induced- best scientists are on our side</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Anderegg et al 10</span> – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and surveys of cli- mate scientists indicate striking agreement with the primary conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): anthropogenic greenhouse gases have been responsible for “most” of the “unequivocal” warming of the Earth’s average global temperature over the second half of the 20th century (1–3). Nonetheless, substantial and growing public doubt remains about the anthropogenic cause and scientific agreement about the role of anthropogenic greenhouse gases in climate change (4, 5). A vocal minority of researchers and other critics contest the conclusions of the mainstream scientific assessment, frequently citing large numbers of scientists whom they believe support their claims (6–8). This group, often termed climate change skeptics, contrarians, or deniers, has received large amounts of media attention and wields significant influence in the societal debate about climate change impacts and policy (7, 9–14). An extensive literature examines what constitutes expertise or credibility in technical and policy-relevant scientific research (15). Though our aim is not to expand upon that literature here, we wish to draw upon several important observations from this literature in examining expert credibility in climate change. First, though the degree of contextual, political, epistemological, and cultural in- fluences in determining who counts as an expert and who is credible remains debated, many scholars acknowledge the need to identify credible experts and account for expert opinion in tech- nical (e.g., science-based) decision-making (15–19). Furthermore, delineating expertise and the relative credibility of claims is critical, especially in areas where it may be difficult for the majority of decision-makers and the lay public to evaluate the full complexities of a technical issue (12, 15). Ultimately, however, societal decisions regarding response to ACC must necessarily include input from many diverse and nonexpert stakeholders. Because the timeline of decision-making is often more rapid than scientific consensus, examining the landscape of expert opinion can greatly inform such decision-making (15, 19). Here, we examine a metric of climate-specific expertise and a metric of overall sci- entific prominence as two dimensions of expert credibility in two groups of researchers. We provide a broad assessment of the rel- ative credibility of researchers convinced by the evidence (CE) of ACC and those unconvinced by the evidence (UE) of ACC. Our consideration of UE researchers differs from previous work on climate change skeptics and contrarians in that we primarily focus on researchers that have published extensively in the climate field, although we consider all skeptics/contrarians that have signed pro- minent statements concerning ACC (6–8). Such expert analysis can illuminate public and policy discussions about ACC and the extent of consensus in the expert scientific community. We compiled a database of 1,372 climate researchers based on authorship of scientific assessment reports and membership on multisignatory statements about ACC (SI Materials and Methods). We tallied the number of climate-relevant publications authored or coauthored by each researcher (defined here as expertise) and counted the number of citations for each of the researcher’s four highest-cited papers (defined here as prominence) using Google Scholar. We then imposed an a priori criterion that a researcher must have authored a minimum of 20 climate publications to be considered a climate researcher, thus reducing the database to 908 researchers. Varying this minimum publication cutoff did not ma- terially alter results (Materials and Methods). We ranked researchers based on the total number of climate publications authored. Though our compiled researcher list is not comprehensive nor designed to be representative of the entire cli- mate science community, we have drawn researchers from the most high-profile reports and public statements about ACC. Therefore, we have likely compiled the strongest and most credentialed researchers in CE and UE groups. Citation and publication analyses must be treated with caution in inferring scientific credibility, but we suggest that our methods and our expertise and prominence criteria provide conservative, robust, and relevant indicators of relative credibility of CE and UE groups of climate researchers (Materials and Methods). Results and Discussion The UE [unconvinced by evidence] group comprises only 2% of the top 50 climate researchers as ranked by expertise (number of climate publications), 3% of researchers of the top 100, and 2.5% of the top 200, excluding researchers present in both groups (Materials and Methods). This result closely agrees with expert surveys, indicating that ≈97% of self-identified actively publishing climate scientists agree with the tenets of ACC (2). Furthermore, this finding complements direct polling of the climate researcher community, which yields quali- tative and self-reported researcher expertise (2). Our findings capture the added dimension of the distribution of researcher expertise, quantify agreement among the highest expertise climate researchers, and provide an independent assessment of level of scientific consensus concerning ACC. In addition to the striking difference in number of expert researchers between CE and UE groups, the distribution of expertise of the UE group is far below that of the CE group (Fig. 1). Mean expertise of the UE group was around half (60 publications) that of the CE group (119 pub- lications; Mann–Whitney U test: W = 57,020; P < 10−14), as was median expertise (UE = 34 publications; CE = 84 publications). Furthermore, researchers with fewer than 20 climate publications comprise ≈80% the UE group, as opposed to less than 10% of the CE group. This indicates that the bulk of UE researchers on the most prominent multisignatory statements about climate change have not published extensively in the peer-reviewed climate literature. We examined a subsample of the 50 most-published (highest- expertise) researchers from each group. Such subsampling facili- tates comparison of relative expertise between groups (normalizing differences between absolute numbers). This method reveals large differences in relative expertise between CE and UE groups (Fig. 2). Though the top-published researchers in the CE group have an average of 408 climate publications (median = 344), the top UE re- searchers average only 89 publications (median = 68; Mann– Whitney U test: W = 2,455; P < 10−15). Thus, this suggests that not all experts are equal, and top CE researchers have much stronger expertise in climate science than those in the top UE group. Finally, our prominence criterion provides an independent and approximate estimate of the relative scientific significance of CE and UE publications. Citation analysis complements publication analysis because it can, in general terms, capture the quality and impact of a researcher’s contribution—a critical component to overall scientific credibility—as opposed to measuring a research- er’s involvement in a field, or expertise (Materials and Methods). The citation analysis conducted here further complements the publication analysis because it does not examine solely climate- relevant publications and thus captures highly prominent re- searchers who may not be directly involved with the climate field. We examined the top four most-cited papers for each CE and UE researcher with 20 or more climate publications and found immense disparity in scientific prominence between CE and UE communities (Mann–Whitney U test: W = 50,710; P < 10−6; Fig. 3). CE researchers’ top papers were cited an average of 172 times, compared with 105 times for UE researchers. Because a single, highly cited paper does not establish a highly credible reputation but might instead reflect the controversial nature of that paper (often called the single-paper effect), we also considered the av- erage the citation count of the second through fourth most-highly cited papers of each researcher. Results were robust when only these papers were considered (CE mean: 133; UE mean: 84; Mann–Whitney U test: W = 50,492; P < 10−6). Results were ro- bust when all 1,372 researchers, including those with fewer than 20 climate publications, were considered (CE mean: 126; UE mean: 59; Mann–Whitney U test: W = 3.5 × 105; P < 10−15). Number of citations is an imperfect but useful benchmark for a group’s scientific prominence (Materials and Methods), and we show here that even considering all (e.g., climate and nonclimate) publications, the UE researcher group has substantially lower prominence than the CE group. We provide a large-scale quantitative assessment of the relative level of agreement, expertise, and prominence in the climate re- searcher community. We show that the expertise and prominence, two integral components of overall expert credibility, of climate researchers convinced by the evidence of ACC vastly overshadows that of the climate change skeptics and contrarians. This divide is even starker when considering the top researchers in each group. Despite media tendencies to present both sides in ACC debates (9), which can contribute to continued public misunderstanding re- garding ACC (7, 11, 12, 14), not all climate researchers are equal in scientific credibility and expertise in the climate system. This extensive analysis of the mainstream versus skeptical/contrarian researchers suggests a strong role for considering expert credibi- lity in the relative weight of and attention to these groups of re- searchers in future discussions in media, policy, and public forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.

Even skeptics agree warming is real and anthropogenic – we have reverse incentives
**Banerjee 7/30**/12 – *Citing Richard Muller, professor of physics at UC-Berkely (Neela, Writer for the Tribune Washington Bureau, “Prominent climate change denier now admits he was wrong”, http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2012/0730/Prominent-climate-change-denier-now-admits-he-was-wrong-video)
The verdict is in: Global warming is real and greenhouse-gas emissions from human activity are the main cause.¶ This, according to Richard A. Muller, professor of physics at the University of California, Berkely, a MacArthur fellow and co-founder of the Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature project.¶ The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and hundreds of other climatologists around the world came to such conclusions years ago, but the difference now is the source: Muller is a long-standing, colorful critic of prevailing climate science, and the Berkeley project was heavily funded by the Charles Koch [Coke] Charitable Foundation, which, along with its libertarian petrochemical billionaire founder Charles G. Koch, has a considerable history of backing groups that deny climate change.¶ In an opinion piece in Saturday’s New York Times titled “The Conversion of a Climate-Change Skeptic,” Muller writes:¶ “Three years ago I identified problems in previous climate studies that, in my mind, threw doubt on the very existence of global warming. Last year, following an intensive research effort involving a dozen scientists, I concluded that global warming was real and that the prior estimates of the rate of warming were correct. I’m now going a step further: Humans are almost entirely the cause.”¶ The Berkeley project’s research has shown, Muller says, “that the average temperature of the earth’s land has risen by 2½ degrees Fahrenheit over the past 250 years, including an increase of 1½ degrees over the most recent 50 years. Moreover, it appears likely that essentially all of this increase results from the human emission of greenhouse gases.”¶ He calls his current stance “a total turnaround.”¶ Tonya Mullins, a spokeswoman for the Koch Foundation, said the support her foundation provided, along with others, has no bearing on results of the research.¶ “Our grants are designed to promote independent research; as such, recipients hold full control over their findings,” Mullins said in an email. “In this support, we strive to benefit society by promoting discovery and informing public policy.”¶ Some leading climate scientists said Muller’s comments show that the science is so strong that even those inclined to reject it cannot once they examine it carefully.¶ Michael E. Mann, director of the Earth System Science Center at Pennsylvania State University, said Muller’s conversion might help shape the thinking of the “reasonable middle” of the population “who are genuinely confused and have been honestly taken in” by attacks on climate science.¶ On his Facebook page, Mann wrote: “There is a certain ironic satisfaction in seeing a study funded by the Koch Brothers — the greatest funders of climate change denial and disinformation on the planet — demonstrate what scientists have known with some degree of confidence for nearly two decades: that the globe is indeed warming, and that this warming can only be explained by human-caused increases in greenhouse gas concentrations. I applaud Muller and his colleagues for acting as any good scientists would, following where their analyses led them, without regard for the possible political repercussions.”




There is no other viable explanation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rahmstorf 8 – Professor of Physics of the Oceans - </span>Richard, of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto. Edited by Ernesto Zedillo. “Anthropogenic Climate Change?” pg. 47
The first and crucial piece of evidence is, of course, that the magnitude of the warming is what is expected from the anthropogenic perturbation of the radiation balance, so anthropogenic forcing is able to explain all of the temperature rise. As discussed here, the rise in greenhouse gases alone corresponds to 2.6 W/m of forcing. This by itself, after subtraction of the observed 0.6 W/nr of ocean heat uptake, would cause 1.6°C of warming since preinduslrial times for medium climate sensitivity (3°C). With a current "best guess" aerosol forcing of 1 W/m\ the expected warming is 0.8°C. The point here is not that it is possible to obtain the exact observed number—this is fortuitous because the amount of aerosol forcing is still very uncertain—but that the expected magnitude is roughly right. There can be little doubt that the anthropogenic forcing is large enough to explain most of the warming. Depending on aerosol forcing and climate sensitivity, it could explain a large fraction of the warming, or all of it, or even more warming than has been observed (leaving room for natural processes to counteract some of the warming). The second important piece of evidence is clear: there is no viable alternative explanation. In the scientific literature, no serious alternative hypothesis has been proposed to explain the observed global warming. Other possible causes, such as solar activity, volcanic activity, cosmic rays, or orbital cycles, arc well observed, but they do not show trends capable of explaining the observed warming. Since 1978, solar irradiance has been measured directly from satellites and shows the well-known eleven-year solar cycle, but no trend.44 There arc various estimates of solar variability before this time, based on sunspot numbers, solar cycle length, the geomagnetic AA index, neutron monitor data, and carbon- 1 A data. These indicate that solar activity probably increased somewhat up to 1940. While there is disagreement about the variation in previous centuries, different authors agree that solar activity did not significantly increase during the last sixty-five years.''11 Therefore, this cannot explain the warming, and neither can any of the other factors mentioned. Models driven by natural factors only, leaving the anthropogenic forcing aside, show a cooling in the second half of the twentieth century (for an example, see figure 2-2, panel a, in chapter 2 of this volume). The trend in the sum of natural forcings is downward.

Positive feedbacks would raise sea levels, threaten food security, collapse states, and end civilization
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brown 8 – Professor @ CAS </span>
Lester E. Brown, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization,” Factiva
In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow at Princeton Uni­versity published an article in Science that showed how annual carbon emissions from fossil fuels could be held at 7 billion tons instead of rising to 14 billion tons over the next 50 years, as would occur with business as usual. The goal of Pacala, an ecol­ogist, and Socolow, an engineer, was to prevent atmospheric CO2 concentrations, then near 375 ppm, from rising above 500 ppm. I They described IS ways, all using proven technologies, that by 20S4 could each cut carbon emissions by 1 billion tons per year. Any seven of these options could be used together to pre­vent an increase in carbon emissions through 2054. Pacala and Socolow further theorize that advancing technology would allow for annual carbon emissions to be cut to 2 billion tons by 2104, a level that can be absorbed by natural carbon sinks in land and oceans. The Pacala/Socolow conceptualization has been extraordi­narily useful in helping to think about how to cut carbon emis­sions. During the three years since the article was written, the urgency of acting quickly and on a much larger scale has become obvious. We also need now to go beyond the conceptu­al approach that treats all potential methods of reducing carbon emissions equally and concentrate on those that are most prom­ising. Researchers such as James Hansen, a leading climate scien­tist at NASA, believe that global warming is accelerating and may be approaching a tipping point, a point at which climate change acquires a momentum that makes it irreversible. They think we may have a decade to turn the situation around before this threshold is crossed. I agree.?3 We often hear descriptions of what we need to do in the decades ahead or by 2050 to avoid "dangerous climate change," but we are already facing this. Two thirds of the glaciers that feed the Yellow and Yangtze rivers of China will disappear by 2060 if even the current 7 percent annual rate of melting con­tinues. Glaciologists report that the Gangotri glacier, which supplies 70 percent of the ice melt that feeds the Ganges River during the dry season, could disappear entirely in a matter of decades.74 What could threaten world food security more than the melt­ing of the glaciers that feed the major rivers of Asia during the dry season, the rivers that irrigate the region's rice and wheat fields? In a region with half the world's people, this potential loss of water during the dry season could lead not just to hunger but to starvation on an unimaginable scale. Asian food security would take a second hit because its rice­-growing river deltas and floodplains would be under water. The World Bank tells us that a sea level rise of only 1 meter would inundate half of the riceland in Bangladesh. While a 1-meter rise in sea level will not happen overnight, what is worrisome is that if ice melting continues at today's rates, at some point such a rise in sea level will no longer be preventable. The melting that would cause this is not just what may happen if the earth's tem­perature rises further; this is something that is starting to hap­pen right now with the current temperature. As summer neared an end in 2007, reports from Greenland indicated that the flow of glaciers into the sea had accelerated beyond anything glaciologists had thought possible. Huge chunks of ice weighing several billion tons each were breaking off and sliding into the sea, causing minor earthquakes as they did so.!6 With melt-water lubricating the surface between the glaciers and the rocks on which they rested, ice flows were accelerating, flowing into the ocean at a pace of 2 meters an hour. This accel­erated flow, along with the earthquakes, shows the potential for the entire ice sheet to break up and collapse?? Beyond what is already happening, the world faces a risk that some of the feedback mechanisms will begin to kick in, fur­ther accelerating the warming process. Scientists who once thought that the Arctic Ocean could be free of ice during the summer by 2100 now see it occurring by 2030. Even this could turn out to be a conservative estimate.78 This is of particular concern to scientists because of the albedo effect, where the replacement of highly reflective sea ice with darker open water greatly increases heat absorbed from sunlight. This, of course, has the potential to further accelerate the melting of the Greenland ice sheet. A second feedback loop of concern is the melting of per­mafrost. This would release billions of tons of carbon, some as methane, a potent greenhouse gas with a global warming effect per ton 25 times that of carbon dioxide.79 The risk facing humanity is that climate change could spiral out of control and it will no longer be possible to arrest trends such as ice melting and rising sea level. At this point, the future of civilization would be at risk. This combination of melting glaciers, rising seas, and their effects on food security and low-lying coastal cities could over­whelm the capacity of governments to cope. Today it is largely weak states that begin to deteriorate under the pressures of mounting environmental stresses. But the changes just described could overwhelm even the strongest of states. Civilization itself could begin to unravel under these extreme stresses.

Adaptation is a myth – only works for rich countries, assumes linear climate change and ignores biodiversity loss
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hamilton 10 – Professor of Public Ethics @ ANU</span>
Clive Hamilton, Professor of Public Ethics in Australia, 2010, “Requiem for a Species: Why We Resist the Truth About Climate Change,” pg 29-30
Underlying the discussion of adaptation is an unspoken belief that one way or another we (in rich countries) will be able to adapt in a way that broadly preserves our way of life because global warming will change things slowly, predictably and manageably. Wealthy countries can easily afford to build flood defences to shield roads and shopping centres from storm surges, and we can 'climate-proof homes against the effects of frequent heatwaves. Yet if our belief in our ability to stabilise the Earth's climate is misconceived then so is our belief in our ability to adapt easily to climate change. If instead of a smooth transition to a new, albeit less pleasant, climate warming sets off a runaway process, adaptation will be a never-ending labour. If warming rises above three or four degrees the chances of severe and abrupt change become high. A harsh and prolonged drought can wipe out an entire regions food production. Fertile plains can turn to dust bowls. A week of temperatures above 40°C can kill tens of thousands of people. Of course, for people in poor countries adaptation means something entirely different. The effects of warming will be more cruel and their ability to adapt is much more limited. The melting of Himalayan glaciers would stop water flowing to vast areas for the length of a dry season, leading to famine. Adaptation strategies then become severely circumscribed: the choice becomes migrate or die. The governments of low-lying island states such as Tuvalu and Maldives are already planning to shift their entire populations. All of these have implications for national security, as waves of environmental refugees seek new places to live.75 Of course, all of the above takes an anthropocentric stance: humans may be able to adapt to significant climate change, but other species and ecosystems will have a much harder time of it. This is a huge topic, and here is not the place to canvass it. Suffice to say that across a broad range of ecosystems certain species will prevail (including feral animals and weeds), while others will be driven out and die. In the type of scenario I have described, mass extinctions are likely.




Warming is an existential risk – absent //__quickening__// reductions it causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mazo 10 </span>– PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century range from 2.5-4.~C above pre-industrial levels, depending on the scenario. Even in the best-case scenario, the low end of the likely range is 1.goC, and in the worst 'business as usual' projections, which actual emissions have been matching, the range of likely warming runs from 3.1--7.1°C. Even keeping emissions at constant 2000 levels (which have already been exceeded), global temperature would still be expected to reach 1.2°C (O'9""1.5°C)above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century." Without early and severe reductions in emissions, the effects of climate change in the second half of the twenty-first century are likely to be catastrophic for the stability and security of countries in the developing world - not to mention the associated human tragedy. Climate change could even undermine the strength and stability of emerging and advanced economies, beyond the knock-on effects on security of widespread state failure and collapse in developing countries.' And although they have been condemned as melodramatic and alarmist, many informed observers believe that unmitigated climate change beyond the end of the century could pose an existential threat to civilisation." What is certain is that there is no precedent in human experience for such rapid change or such climatic conditions, and even in the best case adaptation to these extremes would mean profound social, cultural and political changes.

Climate change comes first and operates above all their impacts – it makes life impossible for future generations
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scorse 8</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> – Professor of International Studies</span>
Jason, Assistant Professor @ Monterey Institute of International Studies @ Middlebury College, What Environmentalists Need to Know About Economics, Online Book
Even though the science now confirms that human activity is contributing to global warming and that this warming is likely to continue if we do not dramatically reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, we are still highly uncertain as to what the end results of this warming will be (Parry et al, 2007). We can be sure about a few things-less Arctic ice, more storms, sea level rise-but the range of possibilities still includes some not-so-catastrophic outcomes along with some potentially cataclysmic scenarios; e.g. major new storm activity, sever draught, major species extinction, and the major inundation of coastal areas. Weitzman argues that a small probability of catastrophic damage may be enough to force us to err on the side of action over inaction, even if the most likely average future benefits of action do not merit such a response. Putting a high premium on worst-case scenarios tilts us in the direction of a zero discount rate not because we actually value benefits to people 100 years from now as much as we value benefits today (as many environmentalists and the authors of the Stern Review would like us to believe), but because when our actions pose a reasonably significant risk of making the world much less livable in the future then we have an obligation to go out of our way to reduce that risk. This rationale is not operative when assessing the benefits of most types of environmental investments because they do not pose such dire scenarios. For example, cleaning up a waterway or expanding open space, while perhaps in society's interests, will not greatly impact humanity's chance for survival or greatly affect overall living standards to anywhere near the degree that climate change might. When posed with these more common scenarios we should revert back to the basic arguments for choosing the proper discount rate.



===Contention 2- Extinction=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention 2 is extinction</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario one is Bio-d</span>
Warming destroys it—that causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hansen 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> -</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> is member of the National Academy of Sciences, an adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University and at Columbia’s Earth Institute, and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies (James E, “Storms of my Grandchildren”)</span>
As long as the total movement of isotherms toward the poles is much smaller than the size of the habitat, or the ranges in which the animals live, the effect on species is limited. But now the move­ment is inexorably toward the poles and totals more than one hun­dred miles over the past several decades. If greenhouse gases continue to increase at business-as-usual rates, then the rate of isotherm movement will double in this century to at least seventy miles per decade. Species at the most immediate risk are those in polar climates and the biologically diverse slopes of alpine regions. Polar animals, in effect, will be pushed off the planet. Alpine species will be pushed toward higher altitudes, and toward smaller, rockier areas with thinner air; thus, in effect, they will also be pushed off the planet. A few such species, such as polar bears, no doubt will be "rescued" by human beings, but survival in zoos or managed animal reserves will be small consolation to bears or nature lovers. Earth's history provides an invaluable perspective about what is possible. Fossils in the geologic record reveal that there have been five mass extinctions during the past five hundred million years— geologically brief periods in which about half or more of the species on Earth disappeared forever. In each case, life survived and new species developed over hundreds of thousands and millions of years. All these mass extinctions were associated with large and relatively rapid changes of atmospheric composition and climate. In the most extreme extinction, the "end-Permian" event, dividing the Permian Triassic periods 251 million years ago, nearly all life on Earth— more than 90 percent of terrestrial and marine species—was exterminated. None of the extinction events is understood in full. Research is active, as increasingly powerful methods of "reading the rocks" are being developed. Yet enough is now known to provide an invalu­able perspective for what is already being called the sixth mass ex­tinction, the human-caused destruction of species. Knowledge of past extinction events can inform us about potential paths for the future and perhaps help guide our actions, as our single powerful species threatens all others, and our own. We do not know how many animal, plant, insect, and microbe species exist today. Nor do we know the rate we are driving species to extinction. About two million species—half of them being insects, including butterflies—have been cataloged, but more are dis­covered every day. The order of magnitude for the total is perhaps ten million. Some biologists estimate that when all the microbes, fungi, and parasites are counted, there may be one hundred million species. Bird species are documented better than most. Everybody has heard of the dodo, the passenger pigeon, the ivory-billed woodpecker—all are gone—and the whooping crane, which, so far, we have just barely "saved." We are still losing one or two bird species per year. In total about 1 percent of bird species have disap­peared over the past several centuries. If the loss of birds is repre­sentative of other species, several thousand species are becoming extinct each year. The current extinction rate is at least one hundred times greater than the average natural rate. So the concern that humans may have initiated the sixth mass extinction is easy to understand. However, the outcome is still very much up in the air, and human-made cli­mate change is likely to be the determining factor. I will argue that if we continue on a business-as-usual path, with a global warming of several degrees Celsius, then we will drive a large fraction of species, conceivably all species, to extinction. On the other hand, just as in the case of ice sheet stability, if we bring atmospheric composition under control in the near future, it is still possible to keep human-caus ed extinctions to a moderate level.





**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Specifically it threatens the Canadian boreal forests – that threatens extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Takver, 12</span>**– International Climate IMC (“ Climate change increasing Canada's boreal forest mortality reducing carbon sink capacity,” International, 1/31/12, [[http://www.indybay.org/newsitems/2012/01/31/18706244.php]], //JPL)//
//Climate change induced drought and water stress is increasing tree mortality in Canada's boreal forests, particularly in western Canada, resulting in a reduction in biomass which reduces it's capacity as a carbon sink. As tree mortality increases, there is reduced capacity to absorb carbon dioxide, resulting in a feedback loop where conditions become warmer and drier increasing the stress on the boreal forest ecosystem and ability to absorb carbon dioxide that humans keep on pumping into the atmosphere at increasing rates. There are big changes happening in the high latitudes where global warming is stronger, and the increased temperatures are more pronounced. Canadian boreal forests cover 77 per cent of forested land in Canada and amount to 30 per cent of Boreal forests globally. The forests play a critical role in the albedo of Earth’s surface and in its global carbon budget. The Pew Environment Group described the importance of the Canadian boreal forests: Scientists have identified the 1.2 billion acre Canadian boreal forest as the largest intact forest and wetland ecosystem remaining on earth. Rivaling the Amazon in size and ecological importance, Canada’s boreal supports the world's most extensive network of pure lakes, rivers and wetlands and captures and stores twice as much carbon as tropical forests. It teems with wildlife—including billions of migratory songbirds, tens of millions of ducks and geese, and millions of caribou. The Canadian boreal is an irreplaceable global treasure. Climatic warming has affected forests ecosystems around the world with changes in net primary productivity, forest growth, carbon balances, plant phenology and species distribution moving polewards. Much research has been done on impacts of tropical forests and temperate forests. The boreal forests in the high latitudes have been found to be sensitive to drought and have been identified as an important climate tipping point by research work lead by Dr Changhui Peng from the Laboratory for Ecological Modelling and Carbon Science (ECO-MCS) Lab from the University of Quebec at Montreal (UQAM). A paper published in Nature Climate Change on 20 November 2011 by Changhui Peng et al - A drought-induced pervasive increase in tree mortality across Canada’s boreal forests (abstract) highlights the importance of this change: The possibility of increasing tree mortality in boreal forests is a particular concern because boreal forests have been identified as a critical `tipping element' of the Earth's climate system and are believed to be more sensitive to drought than other forests.//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 2: War</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Warming causes Middle East and African instability and war – it’s a threat multiplier </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Broder 11</span>(John, Writer for Green from the New York Times, “Climate Change Drives Instability, U.N. Official Warns,” 2/15/11, [[http://green.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/02/15/climate-change-drives-instability-u-n-official-warns/]])//PC
The United Nations’ top climate change official said on Tuesday that food shortages and rising prices caused by climate disruptions were among the chief contributors to the civil unrest coursing through North Africa and the Middle East. In a speech to Spanish lawmakers and military leaders, Christiana Figueres, executive secretary of the United Nations climate office, said that climate change-driven drought, falling crop yields and competition for water were fueling conflict throughout Africa and elsewhere in the developing world. She warned that unless nations took aggressive action to reduce emissions causing global warming such conflicts would spread, toppling governments and driving up military spending around the world. “It is alarming to admit that if the community of nations is unable to fully stabilize climate change, it will threaten where we can live, where and how we grow food and where we can find water,” said Ms. Figueres, a veteran Costa Rican diplomat and environmental advocate. “In other words, it will threaten the basic foundation – the very stability on which humanity has built its existence.” Rising food prices were a factor in the January riots that unseated Tunisia’s longtime president, Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, although decades of repression and high unemployment also fed the revolution. The link between food and resource shortages and Egypt’s revolution is less clear. But Ms. Figueres said that long-term trends in arid regions did not look promising unless the world took decisive action on climate change. She said that a third of all Africans now lived in drought-prone regions and that by 2050 as many as 600 million Africans would face water shortages. “On a global level, increasingly unpredictable weather patterns will lead to falling agricultural production and higher food prices, leading to food insecurity,” she said in her address. “In Africa, crop yields could decline by as much as 50 percent by 2020. Recent experiences around the world clearly show how such situations can cause political instability and undermine the performance of already fragile states.” She said that rising sea levels, more frequent and severe natural disasters, pandemics, heat waves and widespread drought could lead to extensive migrations within countries and across national borders. Military leaders around the world, including those in the United States, have warned that such effects of a changing climate can serve as “threat multipliers,” adding stresses to nations and regions that already face heavy burdens of poverty and social insecurity. “All these factors taken together,” Ms. Figueres concluded, “mean that climate change, especially if left unabated, threatens to increase poverty and overwhelm the capacity of governments to meet the basic needs of their people, which could well contribute to the emergence, spread and longevity of conflict.”

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Middle East war leads to nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">London 10</span>**(Herbert President Emeritus of [[http://www.hudson.org/|Hudson Institute]]. Graduate of Columbia University, 1960 and the recipient of a Ph.D. from New York University, 1966, “The Coming Crisis In The Middle East,” 6/28/10, The Gatestone Institute, http://www.gatestoneinstitute.org/1387/coming-crisis-in-the-middle-east)//PC//
//The coming storm in the Middle East is gaining momentum; like conditions prior to World War I, all it takes for explosive action to commence is a trigger. Turkey's provocative flotilla, often described in Orwellian terms as a humanitarian mission, has set in motion a gust of diplomatic activity: if the Iranians send escort vessels for the next round of Turkish ships, which they have apparently decided not to do in favor of land operations, it could have presented a casus belli. [cause for war] Syria, too, has been playing a dangerous game, with both missile deployment and rearming Hezbollah. According to most public accounts, Hezbollah is sitting on 40,000 long-, medium- and short-range missiles, and Syrian territory has been serving as a conduit for military materiel from Iran since the end of the 2006 Lebanon War. Should Syria move its own scuds to Lebanon or deploy its troops as reinforcement for Hezbollah, a wider regional war with Israel could not be contained. In the backdrop is an Iran, with sufficient fissionable material to produce a couple of nuclear weapons. It will take some time to weaponize the missiles, but the road to that goal is synchronized in green lights since neither diplomacy nor diluted sanctions can convince Iran to change course. From Qatar to Afghanistan all political eyes are on Iran, poised to be "the hegemon" in the Middle East; it is increasingly considered the "strong horse" as American forces incrementally retreat from the region. Even Iraq, ironically, may depend on Iranian ties in order to maintain internal stability. For Sunni nations like Egypt and Saudi Arabia, regional strategic vision is a combination of deal-making to offset the Iranian Shia advantage, and attempting to buy or develop nuclear weapons as a counterweight to Iranian ambition. However, both of these governments are in a precarious state; should either fall, all bets are off in the Middle East neighborhood. It has long been said that the Sunni "tent" must stand on two legs: if one, falls, the tent collapses. Should this tent collapse, and should Iran take advantage of that calamity, it could incite a Sunni-Shia war. Or feeling empowered, and no longer dissuaded by an escalation scenario, Iran, with nuclear weapons in tow, might decide that a war against Israel is a distinct possibility. However implausible it may seem at the moment, the possible annihilation of Israel and the prospect of a second holocaust could lead to a nuclear exchange. The only wild card that can change this slide into warfare is an active United States' policy. Yet, curiously, the U.S. is engaged in both an emotional and physical retreat from the region. Despite rhetoric which suggests an Iran with nuclear weapons is intolerable, the U.S. has done nothing to forestall this eventual outcome. Despite the investment in blood and treasure to allow a stable government to emerge in Iraq, the anticipated withdrawal of U.S. forces has prompted President Maliki to travel to Tehran on a regular basis. Further, despite historic links to Israel that gave the U.S. leverage in the region as well a democratic ally, the Obama administration treats Israel as a national security albatross that must be disposed of as soon as possible. As a consequence, the U.S. is perceived in the region as the "weak horse," the one dangerous to ride. In every Middle East capital the words "unreliable and United States" are linked. Those individuals seeking a moderate course of action are now in a distinct minority. A political vacuum is emerging, one that is not sustainable and one the Iranian leadership looks to with imperial exhilaration. It is no longer a question of whether war will occur, but rather when it will occur, and where it will break out. There are many triggers to ignite the explosion, but not many scenarios for containment. Could it be a regional war in which Egypt and Saudi Arabia watch from the sidelines, but secretly wish for Israeli victory? Or will this be a war in which there aren't victors, only devastation? Moreover, should war break out, what does the U.S. do? This is a description far more dire than any in the last century and, even if some believe that it is overly pessimistic, Arab and Jew, Persian and Egyptian, Muslim and Maronite tend to believe in its veracity -- a truly bad sign.//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 3: CO2 </span>//

//Unmitigated carbon emissions cause extinction.//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Romm 12- </span>Joe Romm is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/2012, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogre//

//The world’s oceans may be turning acidic faster today from human carbon emissions than they did during four major extinctions in the last 300 million years, when natural pulses of carbon sent global temperatures soaring, says a new study in Science. The study is the first of its kind to survey the geologic record for evidence of ocean acidification over this vast time period. “What we’re doing today really stands out,” said lead author Bärbel Hönisch, a paleoceanographer at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. “We know that life during past ocean acidification events was not wiped out—new species evolved to replace those that died off. But if industrial carbon emissions continue at the current pace, we may lose organisms we care about—coral reefs, oysters, salmon.” That’s the news release from a major 21-author Science paper, “The Geological Record of Ocean Acidification” (subs. req’d). We knew from a 2010 Nature Geoscience study that the oceans are now acidifying 10 times faster today than 55 million years ago when a mass extinction of marine species occurred. But this study looked back over 300 million and found that “the unprecedented rapidity of CO2 release currently taking place” has put marine life at risk in a frighteningly unique way: … the current rate of (mainly fossil fuel) CO2 release stands out as capable of driving a combination and magnitude of ocean geochemical changes potentially unparalleled in at least the last ~300 My of Earth history, raising the possibility that we are entering an unknown territory of marine ecosystem change. That is to say, it’s not just that acidifying oceans spell marine biological meltdown “by end of century” as a 2010 Geological Society study put it. We are also warming the ocean and decreasing dissolved oxygen concentration. That is a recipe for mass extinction. A 2009 Nature Geoscience study found that ocean dead zones “devoid of fish and seafood” are poised to expand and “remain for thousands of years.“ And remember, we just learned from a 2012 new Nature Climate Change study that carbon dioxide is “driving fish crazy” and threatening their survival. Here’s more on the new study: The oceans act like a sponge to draw down excess carbon dioxide from the air; the gas reacts with seawater to form carbonic acid, which over time is neutralized by fossil carbonate shells on the seafloor. But if CO2 goes into the oceans too quickly, it can deplete the carbonate ions that corals, mollusks and some plankton need for reef and shell-building.//
//CO2 leads to increased invasive species- destroys food production//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kjohl et al. 11- </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mariken Kjøhl, Anders Nielsen and Nils Christian Stenseth, Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis Department of Biology, University of Oslo, 2011</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(http://www.fao.org/docrep/014/i2242e/i2242e.pdf)</span>//
//Invasive species Invasive species may benefit from climatic changes and proliferate in their new habitats. Climate change is predicted to increase invasion of alien species, especially in northern regions. However, the effects of climate change on invasive species and pollination interactions may vary depending on the species and ecosystem in focus (Schweiger et al. 2010). It is necessary to assess the controllability of invaders in order to assist policy makers in ranking threats from different invasive species for more effective use of limited resources (Ceddia et al. 2009). Pest species, pesticides and pathogens Some invasive insect and plant species are pest organisms, which may cause severe damage to agricultural production. It is expected that climate change will affect various types of pests in different ways (Garrett et al. 2006; Ghini and Morandi 2006). Increased temperatures may speed up pathogen growth rates. Warming may also favour weeds in comparison to crops and increase the abundance, growth rate and geographic range of many crop-attacking insect pests (Cerri et al. 2007). Increased demand for control of plant pests often involves the use of pesticides, which can have negative impacts on human health and the environment (Damalas 2009), including ecosystem services such as pollination. Diffenbaugh et al. (2008) assessed the potential future ranges of pest species by using empirically generated estimates of pest overwintering thresholds and degree-day requirements along with climate change projections from climate models.//



//That risk multiple extinction scenarios//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cribb 10</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Julian is a science communicator, journalist and editor. He has received 32 awards for science, medical, agricultural and business journalism. He was Director, National Awareness, for Australia's science agency, CSIRO, foundation president of the Australian Science Communicators, and originated the CGIAR's Future Harvest strategy, “The coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” p.14-18</span>//
//If large regions of the world run short of food, land, or water in the decades that lie ahead, then wholesale, bloody wars are liable to follow. These wars have already begun, although many of today's governments and media seem unconscious of the fact. We should not be surprised. Famine and war have been inseparable Horsemen of the Apocalypse since antiquity. In the modern era famine notably propelled events as significant as the French Revolution, where what started as a bread crisis ultimately claimed a half million lives in the ensuing civil war and its civilian massacres; and the Russian Revolution, where food protests unleashed a civil war that devoured nine million human lives between 1917 and 1922.2 Even World War II had an imponderable component in the struggle for productive land—or lebensraum as Nazi philosophy defined it. Yet food, land, and water are nowadays widely disregarded as the wellsprings of war. Carter continued: The devastation occurs primarily in countries whose economies depend on agriculture but lack the means to make their farmland productive. These are developing countries such as Sudan, Congo, Colombia, Liberia, Peru, Sierra Leone and Sri Lanka. . . . The economies of Europe, the United States, Canada and Japan were built on strong agriculture. But many developing countries have shifted their priorities away from farming in favor of urbanization, or they have reduced investments in agriculture because of budget shortages. At the same time, industrialized countries continue to cut their foreign aid budgets, which fund vital scientific research and extension work to improve farming in developing countries. "The message is clear," he concluded. "There can be no peace until people have enough to eat. Hungry people are not peaceful people."3 For decades many academics and policy makers have assumed that war is the parent and famine its child, yet recent conflicts in which critical food shortages have played a part in igniting events have begun to beg the question, Is it war that drives famine, or do scarcities of food, land, and water also sometimes lead to war? Scholars have closely dissected the chicken, but few so far have probed the egg—yet this may be critical to an understanding of one of the primary forces shaping our times.4 The shift began almost imperceptibly in 1999, when a groundbreaking study by scholars affiliated with the International Peace Research Institute of Oslo, an independent think tank devoted to research on global conflict, concluded that with the ending of the Cold War, "the new internal wars, extremely bloody in terms of civilian casualties, reflect subsistence crises and are largely apolitical."'' This hinted, for the first time, that resource scarcity of food, land, and water could become a major trigger for conflict rather than merely a consequence of it. (The prevailing expert view, however, still mainly considers scarcity a consequence.) At the dawn of the century of humanity's greatest resource scarcities it was a serious wake-up call, yet one through which many slumbered on. "The crises stem from the failure of development, the loss of livelihood and the collapse of states. These factors add up to a vicious cycle," the Oslo scholars Indra de Soysa and Nils Petter Gleditsch explained. "The causes of armed conflict are perpetuated by conflict itself. People fight over vital necessities such as food, to protect a livelihood. . . . [S]tatcs that can provide such necessities also create conditions conducive to peace and prosperity."6 Peace and prosperity, in turn, create the conditions necessary for democratic government, civil society, and a culture of peace, they added. Democracy is not commonly thought of as a food by-product, but it probably is. In their study, de Soysa and Gleditsch published a disturbing map (sec map i). It showed all the countries of the world where food production was most critical to the survival of the nation-state—and all the places where, in the previous ten years, war and strife had broken out. The coincidence was more than striking. If your country is at the mercy of a shaky food supply, the map implies, watch out for war. The opposite was equally evident: those places where food was plentiful—"old" Europe, North America, Australasia, and parts of Latin America—had escaped mass bloodletting within their own territories during the decade. Peace, the study implied, prefers a full platter. The causes of these wars included disputes between new settlers and existing landholders, unjust land distribution due to corrupt ownership or government, environmental degradation so bad as to reduce the food supply, lack of access to water, and famine. Environmental wars, so far, are rare—but several commentators think that such conflicts may become more frequent as humanity presses against the limits of the Earth's resources. "Conditions affecting the livelihoods of the majority of people in poor countries arc at the heart of the internal violence. The inability to meet food requirements drives people to adopt alternative survival strategies, one of which is to join rebellions and criminal insurgencies. In such situations the use of violence is primarily for economic goals, rather than the political ends that drove many revolutionary movements during the Cold War," de Soysa and Gleditsch wrote.' Added to this may be another factor more primal still: love of one's children. Of all the indicators that point most reliably to government collapse and the probability of conflict, none is more brutally eloquent than the death rate among children. Starvation and malnutrition-related disease are the main causes of high infant mortality. Those countries with the most child deaths also have high levels of conflict.8 Love of children, horribly, is what may—at times—furnish the motivation for genocide: the blind desire to exterminate "the other," to eliminate the competition they pose for the basics of life. The roots of the 1994 Rwandan genocide were on the farm: "The country relied heavily on coffee exports for hard currency and government revenues. The collapse of world prices in the early 1990s led to high unemployment, reduced farm incomes, reduced social spending, and a citizenry receptive to government incitement of ethnic and political violence."9 Most studies still focus on the salient features of genocide rather than its underlying drivers. There remains a gap in our understanding of what propels societies toward this self-mutilating behavior—and part of the answer may well lie in scarcities of food, land, and water. Some observers also claim a link between food insecurity and terrorism, pointing out that hungry countries are among those most likely to furnish terrorism recruits. In 2002, heads of state from fifty countries met at a development summit in Mexico where they discussed the role of poverty and hunger as a breeding ground for terrorism. "No-one in this world can feel comfortable or safe while so many are suffering and deprived," UN secretary general Kofi Annan told them. The president of the UN General Assembly, Han Seung-Soo, added that the world's poorest countries were a breeding ground for violence and despair. The Peruvian president Alejandro Toledo added, "To speak of development is to speak also of a strong and determined fight against terrorism."10 Around the world many guerrilla and insurgent causes—such as Shining Path, the Tamil Tigers, and Abu Sayyaf—have claimed injustice in land ownership and use as one of their motivating causes.//




//**Scenario 4 – the Navy**//
//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Warming intensifies geopolitical instability and will overstretch America’s Navy</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith, 11 </span>**– <span style="font-size: 10pt;">professor of Security Strategies at the Naval War College, former associate/assistant professor with the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies (Paul, “ The geopolitics of climate change: power transitions, conflict and the future of military activities,” Conflict, Security, & Development, [[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/14678802.2011.593810]])</span>//
//When the US Department of Defense released its Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) in February 2010, it marked the first time a major Pentagon force planning document had described the strategic implications of climate change and its likely effect on future military missions. Citing US intelligence assessments, the QDR stated that ‘climate change could have significant geopolitical impacts around the world, contributing to poverty, environmental degradation and the further weakening of fragile governments’.1 In addition, the document noted, climate change could contribute to food and water scarcities, increase the spread of disease and exacerbate mass migration.2 Nine months after publication of the QDR, Rear Admiral David Titley, the US Navy's chief oceanographer and the head of the Navy's Task Force Climate Change (TFCC), told a US Congressional committee how climate change would affect future US Navy missions. ‘While the Arctic is a bellwether for global climate change’, he noted, ‘there are other impacts of climate change on missions that the Navy must consider, including water resources, fisheries and implications for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief’.3 The following year, the National Research Council (NRC) issued a report on the implications of climate change for future naval operations. Among its various findings, the NRC concluded that climate change would likely ‘generate geopolitical instability in already vulnerable regions’ of the world, which would have implications for future US military missions.4//

//Naval power prevents the escalation of threats//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NLUS, 12</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> – </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">a nonprofit organization dedicated to educating our citizens about the importance of sea power to U.S. national security and supporting the men and women of the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and U.S.-flag Merchant Marine and their families (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity: Maritime Policy 2012-13”, Navy League of the United States, 1/21/12, [[http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf]])</span>//
//Global engagement is critical to the U.S. economy, world trade and the protection of democratic freedoms that so many take for granted. The guarantors of these vital elements are hulls in the water, embarked forward amphibious forces and aircraft overhead. The Navy League of the United States’ Maritime Policy for 2012-13 provides recommendations for strategy, policy and the allocation of national resources in support of our sea services and essential to the successful execution of their core missions. We live in a time of complex challenges — terrorism, political and economic turmoil, extremism, conflicts over environmental resources, manmade and natural disasters — and potential flash points exist around the globe. It is the persistent forward presence and engagement of maritime forces that keep these flash points in check, prevent conflict and crisis escalation, and allow the smooth flow of goods in a global economy. The United States has fought multiple wars and sacrificed much to ensure un challenged access to sea lanes and secure the global commerce upon which the U.S. economy depends. The “persistent naval presence” provided by our forward-deployed Navy and Marine Corps ships, aircraft, Sailors and Marines is the guarantor of that hard-won maritime security and the critical deterrent against those who might seek to undermine that security. Maintaining naval forces that can sustain our national commitment to global maritime security and dissuade transnational aggression in the future must be a national imperative. The No. 1 challenge to that imperative is the lack of a fully funded, achievable Navy shipbuilding program that produces the right quantity and quality of ships, with the right capabilities, for the right costs, in economically affordable numbers over the next 25 years. A shipbuilding plan must be defined and agreed upon by the Navy, the Departments of Defense (DoD) and Homeland Security, Congress and the administration — and executed now. Recognizing that hard choices must be made in a reduction of the defense budget, the Navy League is reducing its recommended funding for the Department of the Navy’s Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy (SCN), account to $20 billion or more per year. This reduced funding leads to a recommended reduced force level of 305 ships to meet our nation’s global security challenges. This also recognizes that the worldwide commitment of ship deployment must be reduced. America’s amphibious expeditionary force is prepared to engage today’s threats — today. Our Marines remain heavily engaged in Afghanistan and support numerous other small-unit operations that enable nation-building with allies around the globe. The Marine Corps needs the authorization to reduce to an end strength of 186,800 Marines, and this force level must be properly resourced to maintain a balanced air-ground logistics team. The Corps must regain its expertise in amphibious operations and maintain that capability in force structure. The service also must be provided the resources to reset the force, to restore or acquire new equipment and capabilities consumed in the ongoing wars. The Coast Guard is a multimission, worldwide-deployed armed force with broad law enforcement authorities. It operates seamlessly with the DoD services as prescribed by the National Command Authority and is the lead agency for maritime homeland security and law enforcement support to the Navy in deployed operations. In addition, it fulfills several legally mandated missions, including its most employed mission of search and rescue, plus protection of living marine resources, drug interdiction, illegal migrant interdiction, defense readiness, marine safety, ice operations, aids to navigation, marine environmental protection, and ports, waterways and coastal security. The substantial breadth of operations, which has increased markedly in tempo since the 9/11 attacks, continues to overstress aging equipment, resulting in rising maintenance costs and a greater workload for Coast Guard personnel. The Coast Guard must increase its active-duty military strength to at least 45,000, have an operational expense budget of at least $6.7 billion and an Acquisition, Construction and Improvements (AC&I) budget resourced at no less than $2.5 billion per year, of which $2 billion should be dedicated to continuing the recapitalization of the fleet. Skilled Mariners are more critical than ever to ensuring our ability to sustain U.S. national and global security interests. Ninety-five percent of the equipment and supplies required to deploy the U.S. armed forces is moved by sea. The base of skilled U.S. Merchant Mariners is shrinking. The shipping capabilities of the Maritime Administration’s Ready Reserve Force and the DoD’s Military Sealift Command are sized to support routine and some surge logistics and specialized mission requirements. This critical capability must be maintained by ensuring an active commercial U.S.-flag Merchant Marine to support efficient and cost-effective movement of DoD cargo.//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 5 – Coral reefs</span>//
//Climate change destroys coral reefs – multiple reasons//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Great Barrier Reef Authority, 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, “Climate change impacts on coral reefs,” Australian Government, 8/8/11, </span>[[http://www.gbrmpa.gov.au/outlook-for-the-reef/climate-change/what-does-this-mean-for-habitats/coral-reefs]]<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span>//JPL)
Coral reefs are highly vulnerable to climate change and the impacts will be far reaching. Coral reefs are complex structures built mainly from the calcium carbonate (limestone) skeletons laid down by hard corals. These reef-building corals are highly vulnerable to rising sea temperatures and ocean acidification. Slowed growth and loss of hard corals will reduce essential habitat for many other reef creatures. Reef structures themselves will also begin to crumble if reef growth does not keep pace with erosion by animals and storms. Coral reefs comprise only six per cent of the area of the Great Barrier Reef, yet they provide critical habitat and food for many species in the ecosystem. Healthy coral reefs are also the essential foundation for reef-based tourism and fishing. They are vitally connected to other Great Barrier Reef habitats including mangroves and salt marshes, seagrass meadows, estuaries, and open water environments. Reefs also act as barriers, protecting inshore habitats and human communities from large waves and storm surges. Rising sea temperature Hard corals are highly susceptible to coral bleaching caused by higher-than-normal sea temperatures. Coral bleaching is expected to occur more often and with greater severity in the future, making it difficult for corals to recover between bleaching events. As a result, the abundance of living corals on reefs is likely to decline in coming decades. Some coral types, such as staghorn corals, are especially sensitive to bleaching, and these will be the most seriously affected. Coral communities will increasingly be dominated by types that are more tolerant to temperature stress. Large, fleshy seaweeds (macroalgae), which compete with corals for space on the reef, will also benefit from rising temperatures and coral bleaching. Scientists have shown that degrading reefs can be rapidly overgrown by these macroalgae, which in turn impede coral recovery. Reefs dominated by macroalgae and bleaching-resistant corals have less three-dimensional structure than healthy coral reefs. Such reefs provide fewer shelters and refuges for the many animals that rely on the reef for their habitat. Ocean acidification Coral reefs are also highly vulnerable to ocean acidification. Hard corals and many other organisms that contribute to reef building, such as coralline algae, make their skeletons from calcium carbonate (limestone). The rate of skeleton formation, known as calcification, will slow if waters become more acidic and the skeletons of these animals and plants will be weaker. Reefs are continually worn down by storms, and creatures that eat, burrow or dissolve their way through limestone. For a healthy reef to be maintained, the growth of corals and encrusting algae has to at least keep pace with this erosion. Continuing ocean acidification will ultimately contribute to coral loss, and a weakening and collapse of limestone reef structures. Extreme weather events The Great Barrier Reef has adapted to cope with the impacts of cyclones and severe storms. However, many scientists predict that intense cyclones (such as cyclone Hamish and cyclone Yasi) will occur more often due to climate change. Reef recovery from such severe storms is slow, because fewer corals survive to recolonise affected areas. An increase in severe cyclones could therefore contribute to the degradation of reefs structures already weakened by coral bleaching and ocean acidification.
Coral reef systems key to human survival
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Green Reefs, 12</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– Green Reefs environmental magazine (“About Us; Who Are We?” 4/22/12, </span>[[http://green-reefs.com/GreenReefAboutUs.html]]<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, //JPL)</span>
Here at Green Reefs we are dedicated to the preservation of these precious marine ecosystems known as coral reefs. We will examine the role these fragile biotopes have in our everyday life, from the food we eat to the medicines which may one day cure cancer. Not only do the reefs sustain much of human life, nearly all of aquatic life depends on these small ecosystems as well either directly or indirectly. As the effects of climate change, global warming, overfishing and overpopulation become more dangerous, the reefs find themselves more and more vulnerable. Human survival may ultimately hinge on the survival of the reef ecosystems. With that being said, reefs are home to some of the most colorful and majestic creatures in the world, as well as some of the strangest. With more biodiversity than the Amazon, new creatures are constantly being discovered. New medicines continue to be developed from venomous creatures in the seas. The oceans are becoming more impactful in human civilization. Despite this, the ocean remains relatively unexplored, even though it covers nearly three quarters of our planet. Scientists know more about the surface of the moon than the ocean floor.


===Contention 3- Solvency=== 
Contention 3 is Solvency
The plan demonstrates that emissions can be cut without economic costs, even if no regulations
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MIT 7</span>
Interdisciplinary Study, The Future of Coal, http://web.mit.edu/coal/
Washington, DC – Leading academics from an interdisciplinary Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) panel issued a report today that examines how the world can continue to use coal, an abundant and inexpensive fuel, in a way that mitigates, instead of worsens, the global warming crisis. The study, "The Future of Coal – Options for a Carbon Constrained World," advocates the U.S. assume global leadership on this issue through adoption of significant policy actions. Led by co-chairs Professor John Deutch, Institute Professor, Department of Chemistry, and Ernest J. Moniz, Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Physics and Engineering Systems, the report states that carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) is the critical enabling technology to help reduce CO2 emissions significantly while also allowing coal to meet the world's pressing energy needs. According to Dr. Deutch, "As the world's leading energy user and greenhouse gas emitter, the U.S. must take the lead in showing the world CCS can work. Demonstration of technical, economic, and institutional features of CCS at commercial scale coal combustion and conversion plants will give policymakers and the public confidence that a practical carbon mitigation control option exists, will reduce cost of CCS should carbon emission controls be adopted, and will maintain the low-cost coal option in an environmentally acceptable manner." Dr. Moniz added, "There are many opportunities for enhancing the performance of coal plants in a carbon-constrained world – higher efficiency generation, perhaps through new materials; novel approaches to gasification, CO2 capture, and oxygen separation; and advanced system concepts, perhaps guided by a new generation of simulation tools. An aggressive R&D effort in the near term will yield significant dividends down the road, and should be undertaken immediately to help meet this urgent scientific challenge." Key findings in this study: Coal is a low-cost, per BTU, mainstay of both the developed and developing world, and its use is projected to increase. Because of coal's high carbon content, increasing use will exacerbate the problem of climate change unless coal plants are deployed with very high efficiency and large scale CCS is implemented. CCS is the critical enabling technology because it allows significant reduction in CO2 emissions while allowing coal to meet future energy needs. A significant charge on carbon emissions is needed in the relatively near term to increase the economic attractiveness of new technologies that avoid carbon emissions and specifically to lead to large-scale CCS in the coming decades. We need large-scale demonstration projects of the technical, economic and environmental performance of an integrated CCS system. We should proceed with carbon sequestration projects as soon as possible. Several integrated large-scale demonstrations with appropriate measurement, monitoring and verification are needed in the United States over the next decade with government support. This is important for establishing public confidence for the very large-scale sequestration program anticipated in the future. The regulatory regime for large-scale commercial sequestration should be developed with a greater sense of urgency, with the Executive Office of the President leading an interagency process. The U.S. government should provide assistance only to coal projects with CO2 capture in order to demonstrate technical, economic and environmental performance. Today, IGCC appears to be the economic choice for new coal plants with CCS. However, this could change with further RD&D, so it is not appropriate to pick a single technology winner at this time, especially in light of the variability in coal type, access to sequestration sites, and other factors. The government should provide assistance to several "first of a kind" coal utilization demonstration plants, but only with carbon capture. Congress should remove any expectation that construction of new coal plants without CO2 capture will be "grandfathered" and granted emission allowances in the event of future regulation. This is a perverse incentive to build coal plants without CO2 capture today. Emissions will be stabilized only through global adherence to CO2 emission constraints. China and India are unlikely to adopt carbon constraints unless the U.S. does so and leads the way in the development of CCS technology. Key changes must be made to the current Department of Energy RD&D program to successfully promote CCS technologies. The program must provide for demonstration of CCS at scale; a wider range of technologies should be explored; and modeling and simulation of the comparative performance of integrated technology systems should be greatly enhanced.




CCS creates the ultimate backstop against runaway warming – allows for indirect air removal
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mills 11</span> - *MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge
Robin, “Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change,” Google Book

Indirect capture is therefore the ultimate backstop for climate policy. Storage capacity permitting, we can, at a cost in money and energy, remove any quantity of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. This may be crucial if we discover that we are on the path to sudden, cata-strophic climate change. Even if we were to halt all emissions immediately, it would take millennia for the elevated concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide to be fully absorbed. By contrast, air capture might be able to take us back to pre-industrial levels within some decades. As a 'geo-engineering' solution, it addresses the problem directly, rather than reducing global warming indirectly.141 Undesirable sjde-effects are, as tar as we can tell now, minimal compared with other gco-cngincering techniques, and it also addresses the other key issue of ocean acidification. Some major studies have dismissed air capture without serious consideration,14- mainly on cost grounds. It is, indeed, likely to be one of the more expensive carbon mitigation options, but it does not have to compete with CCS on large centralised sources, nor with major low-carbon power solutions such as wind or nuclear. It is intended to address otherwise intractable polluters such as flying, and to provide a way of returning rapidly to a pre-industrial atmosphere. In contrast to other 'carbon offset' schemes such as forestry (see Chapter 4), which have been heavily criticised,141 it offers completely verifiable, and undeniably 'additional', reductions. I will return to this issue in Chapter 6.

CCS technology exists
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ronca 8</span> [Debra Ronca, Contributing Writer at HSW Debra Ronca holds a B.A. in English from The College of New Jersey. 2008, “How Carbon Capture Works” *Note: Date inferred through newest cited source.http://science.howstuffworks.com/environmental/green-science/carbon-capture.htm]
Carbon capture has actually been in use for years. The oil and gas industries have used carbon capture for decades as a way to enhance oil and gas recovery [source: CSS]. Only recently have we started thinking about capturing carbon for environmental reasons. Currently, most research focuses on carbon capture at fossil fuel-powered energy plants, the source of the majority of man-made CO2 emissions. Many of these power plants rely on coal to create energy, and the burning of coal emits CO2 into the atmosphere. Some researchers envision a future where all new power plants employ carbon capture.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CCS is safe – no leaks, their evidence is alarmist environmentalism</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mills 11 </span>- *MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge
Robin, “Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change,” Google Book
It is often claimed that carbon capture and storage is 'not proven'. For example, the US's oldest environmental organisation, the Sierra Club, has said, "We don't have any idea whether or when this [carbon storage] will be possible...it's pie in the sky.'11*' Andrew McKillop dismisses the idea as 'exotic technological fantasies',117 while Greenpeace com¬mented that the Swedish utility Vattenfall was attempting to deceive ecologists with its CCS plans.118 Yet, as we will see, the individual elements of CCS are all technologically proven. Four industrial-size carbon storage projects are operating, in various parts of the world, and numerous pilots are investigating all the aspects of carbon capture, transportation and storage. Long-distance carbon dioxide transport and storage for enhanced oil recovery is commercially proven, and operating on a large scale. Experience from these projects suggests that they are safe and that leakage will be minimal.




CCS tech coming now- federal investment is key to jumpstart private sector
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zarraby 12</span> - chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012
Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis
Rising food prices, 1 mass migration, 2 new endangered species, 3 severe droughts 4 - scientists have linked each of these harms to increased emissions of greenhouse gases, and if such harms persist, they will fundamentally change the way human beings live their lives. 5 To combat these harms, the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") recently announced that, for the first time, the United States will regulate the emissions of greenhouse gases from power plants under the Clean Air Act. 6 One of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases is coal-fired electricity. 7 Coal-fired power generation accounts for roughly one-third of all greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. 8 Despite its contribution to climate change, the United States' reliance on coal-fired power is increasing: the Energy Information Administration estimates that coal power will account for over forty percent of United States electricity generation in 2035. 9 Carbon Capture and Sequestration ("CCS") is one of the most promising technologies to curb greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired electric generation. 10 [*953] CCS is a process whereby carbon dioxide ("CO<2>") is separated from the power plant emissions and transported and stored in underground reservoirs. 11 CCS prevents the release of CO<2> into the atmosphere and effectively eliminates greenhouse gas emissions from the power plant operations. 12 Although the technology for capturing and storing CO<2> has been proven in operation, 13 the United States does not have adequate infrastructure to implement CCS on a national scale. Specifically, tens of thousands of miles of CO<2> pipelines must be constructed to transport the CO<2> from the power plants to underground reservoirs. 14 Currently, there is no comprehensive federal regulation of CO<2> pipelines and existing state regulations are limited. 15 The uncertainty of this regulatory framework will prevent the development of much-needed CO<2> pipelines. 16 Given the harms that will arise because of greenhouse gas emissions and the continued reliance on coal as a source of electricity, it is imperative that Congress pass legislation that promotes the construction of new CO<2> pipelines. 17

Federal investment is key – otherwise states will over-regulate
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klass and Wilson 8</span> - *Professor of Law @ Minnesota, **Professor of Public Policy @ Minnesota
Alexandra and Elizabeth, “CLIMATE CHANGE AND CARBON SEQUESTRATION: ASSESSING A LIABILITY REGIME FOR LONG-TERM STORAGE OF CARBON DIOXIDE,” http://www.law.emory.edu/fileadmin/journals/elj/58/58.1/Klass_Wilson.pdf
Existing federal environmental statutes that govern air, water, and hazardous waste can act as examples of the federal government setting a floor for environmental standards and allowing states to innovate using their regulatory authority and common law. 217 Legislators could use these statutes for guidance in enacting CCS legislation. On the other hand, when a commercial project is not accompanied by federal research dollars, the siting difficulties that plague much infrastructure development, characterized by “not in my backyard” attitudes, could emerge for CCS as well. 218 If states choose to use high liability barriers to keep CCS projects out of their territories, eventual CCS project siting—and potential benefits of greenhouse gas reduction—could become impossible





Use of federal lands necessitates federal investment
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stephenson 8</span> - Director, Natural Resources and Environment @ GAO <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Federal Actions Will Greatly Affect the Viability of Carbon Capture and Storage As a Key Mitigation Option,” GAO, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d081080.pdf</span>
In addition to the technical and legal issues affecting CCS’s prospects, key studies, federal advisory committees, and the stakeholders we interviewed also identified an array of other issues that would need to be resolved if the technology is to be deployed within a time frame scientists believe is needed to address climate change. Moreover, whereas many of the technical and regulatory issues discussed earlier fall within the domain of two agencies (DOE and EPA), these other issues cross the jurisdictions of the Departments of the Interior and Transportation, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and other agencies in a manner that would require collaboration between agencies and, in many cases, coordination with state governments and other entities. Under a national CCS program, CO2 could be sequestered on both federal and nonfederal lands and would raise complex property rights issues needing resolution in both instances. In the case of federal lands, BLM, which manages the federal government’s mineral resources, is required by the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 45 to report by December 2008 on a framework to manage geological carbon sequestration activities on public lands. According to BLM officials, the report will include a discussion of the unresolved property ownership and liability issues related to long-term CO2 storage. They note that the report will also discuss the statutory authority BLM currently has and what it lacks, such as the authority to establish a funding mechanism for monitoring and mitigation efforts associated with sequestration sites. They cautioned, however, that the report will not recommend solutions to current uncertainties and explained that since injected CO2 can move onto adjacent private or state lands, resolving them will require collaboration with private landowners and state agencies. Nationwide CO2 sequestration would also pose major challenges on nonfederal lands. EPA notes that states with primacy for the UIC program have typically addressed such challenges when they have arisen under that program. The agency acknowledged the additional complications that would arise as stored CO2 crossed state boundaries, but noted that such cross-jurisdictional issues typically occur under the UIC program and that states have worked together to address them. Nonetheless, the significantly larger scale of a future CCS program could magnify the problems posed by these jurisdictional issues. EPA officials noted that they are hoping that the proposed rule’s comment process will surface ideas to address these problems. However, EPA officials also note that the agency lacks authority to issue regulations resolving these issues. Furthermore, while EPA’s proposed rule reaffirms liability related to underground sources of drinking water, ambiguity remains regarding who—the injector or the property owner— is ultimately responsible for unanticipated releases of the injected CO2 that have other effects. As discussed earlier, the released CO2 could interfere with the adjacent mineral owners’ abilities to extract those resources, and the injection well’s operator could be held liable for nuisance, trespass, or another tort. Pipelines are the preferred method of transporting large amounts of CO2 . The Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) administers safety regulations for CO2 pipelines that affect interstate commerce and certifies states that have adopted regulations compatible with the minimum federal safety standards to regulate their intrastate pipelines. No federal agency has claimed jurisdiction over siting, rates, or terms of service for interstate CO2 pipelines. 46 However, early assessments indicate that a nationwide CCS program could require a network of interstate CO2 pipelines that would raise cross-jurisdictional issues and involve multiple regulatory authorities—all in the unprecedented context of a nationwide program to transport massive volumes of CO2
Only the federal government is modeled
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mack and Endemann 09</span>Latham & Watkins, international law firm (Joel Mack, Buck B. Endemann, October 2, 2009, “Making carbon dioxide sequestration feasible: Toward federal regulation of CO2 sequestration pipelines,” [[http://lw.com/upload/pubContent/_pdf/pub3385_1.pdf)/DR|http://lw.com/upload/pubContent/_pdf/pub3385_1.pdf)//DR]]. H
Regulation of geologically sequestered CO2 also creates potential international environmental concerns. For example, North Dakota’s Great Plains Gasification Plant produces CO2 that is shipped across the border to Canada for use in EOR (Basin Electric Power Cooperative, 2009). Assuming the United States or Canada enters a treaty that caps carbon emissions at a certain level, the current international agreements do not contemplate how cross-border CO2 transportation for pure geologic sequestration (not associated with EOR) would affect each country’s carbon budget. Congress and the executive branch will have to confront the implications of such transportation and potentially modify or draft new treaties or bilateral agreements to ensure regulations are not unnecessarily restrictive or open to abuse.
__No earthquakes__ – most qualified evidence says it’s a __red herring__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reisinger 9</span> – JD, Attorney @ Ohio Environmental Council
Will, “RECONCILING KING COAL AND CLIMATE CHANGE: A REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE,” Vermont Journal of Environmental Law, http://vjel.org/journal/pdf/VJEL10107.pdf
Injecting large quantities of foreign substances deep underground, especially in earthquake-prone regions, could potentially trigger seismic activity. 101 Some fear that massive quantities of CO2 could expand within porous rock, increase pressure, and possibly lead to earthquakes. 102 Most geologists, however, have concluded that this type of harm is an improbable result of CCS injections. The risk of “induced seismicity” will not likely deter serious operators or investors, but is more likely to be used as a rallying cry by environmental groups and citizen activists who are opposed to CCS.

==1AC CCS V2== 
Shorter warming advantages- impacts read are mazo and romm- then this advantage and same solvency contention as above
===Leadership Advantage=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leadership</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clean energy low now—price declines and expiring tax credits</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Cuttino 5/16</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">/12 – Director, Pew Clean Energy Program (Phyllis, “A Bright Future for Renewable Energy” Huffington Post Green, May 16 2012, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/phyllis-cuttino/a-bright-future-for-renewable-energy_b_1521445.html]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MR</span>//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But like other emerging high-technology industries before it, </span>**__the clean-energy__**
**__AND__**
**__in wind__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">projects </span>**__is set to conclude at the end of this year.__**

Post-plan the government would issue a carbon tax to make CCS cost competitive
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IEA 12 (International Energy Agency- of which the US is a member country, January 2012, “A POLICY STRATEGY FOR CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE”,[[http://www.iea.org/papers/2012/policy_strategy_for_ccs.pdf]])</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">At the end of the main period of learning, once a limited programme of </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to support CCS, such as emissions performance standards, may be preferable.</span>

That carbon tax is key to increased renewable use- specifically wind power use
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Moberg 2002</span>
[David, “America's Green-Labor Alliance,” In These Times, <span style="color: blue;">www.alternet.org/module/printversion/12734 </span>download date: 6-12-08]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In February, leaders of the Service Employees, Steelworkers and UNITE (apparel and </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the hardship on lower-income workers who could face higher energy costs.</span>

Increased wind power key to solve air pollution
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stanford Report, 03 </span>(Dawn Levy, “Harnessing the wind: One-quarter of United States is suited for wind power production, researchers find,” 5-21-3 [[http://news-service.stanford.edu/news/2003/may21/wind-521.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can we light up the world and fuel our vehicles without polluting the environment? </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">-cell vehicles, this country could reduce its dependence on foreign oil."</span>

That destroys vital ecosystems and decreases health- results in extinction
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Driesen 03</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David, Associate Prof. Law – Syracuse U., Buffalo Environmental Law Journal, “"LEARING SUSTAINABILITY": SYMPOSIUM ARTICLES: SYMPOSIUM HELD AT THE UNIVERSITY AT BUFFALO LAW SCHOOL, OCTOBER 13, 2001: Sustainable Development and Air Quality: The Need to Replace Basic Technologies with Cleaner Alternatives”, Fall 02-Spring 03, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, L/]</span>

**__Air pollution can make life unsustainable by harming the ecosystem upon which all life depends__**
**__AND__**
**__health and the environment, air quality implicates both of these concerns__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n5</span>

Renewables are key to US clean tech leadership
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chu 11</span> (Steven- US Energy Secretary, “Secretary Chu: America Faces a Choice to “Compete in the Clean Energy Race” or “Wave the White Flag”,” Re-posted @ [[http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/11/03/360402/secretary-chu-clean-energy-race/]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once again, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there is a huge opportunity before us – a global clean energy </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">sold around the world. That’s how we’ll prosper in the 21st century</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

That is the largest internal link to soft power
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Buzan 7- </span>Barry Buzan, November 2007 - Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics, (“A Leader Without Followers? The United States in World Politics after Bush”, The Global Policy Institute,[[http://www.gpilondon.com/fileadmin/user_upload/GPI/Short_Policy_Docs/PP2.pdf]])
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Environmental issues are the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">wild card</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> of international relations. They could generate crises in </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">could yet counterbalance the current inertia and denial in Washington about climate change.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Soft power is key to transition to global multilateralism- solves multiple extinction scenarios</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Jervis 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Professor of International Politics @ Columbia</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert, professor of international politics at Columbia University, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics, Muse)</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">To say that the system is unipolar is not to argue that the unipole can </span>**</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>**</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">American vision and believe that its leadership is benign.</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> [End Page 211</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Status quo foreign policy causes the U.S. to exaggerate threats and over-estimate its capabilities—makes conflict and lashout </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">more</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> likely- transition to multilateralism is key</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Jervis, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor in the Department of Political Science and School of International Affairs at Columbia University (Robert, December 2011, “Force in Our Times”, Survival, Vol. 25, No. 4, UTD McDermitt Library)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">As the previous paragraphs indicate, a central challenge for scholars (and policymakers) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__power can lead to great fears and a very broad conception of interest__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only Multilateralism can spur the effective cooperation necessary to reverse status quo perceptions and prevent a US-China war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Liven 12 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Anatol Liven- former senior assoc. at the Carnegie Endowment for</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">book brings out with chilling force, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the alternatives may well be catastrophic.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">War with China causes extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Straits Times, 00</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, l/n)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The high-intensity scenario postulates </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__a cross-strait war escalating into a full__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__AND__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Multilateralism solves terrorism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Weber, 06 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of Political Science at the University of California at Berkeley and Director of the Institute of International Studies (Steven, 12/27/06, “How Globalization Went Bad”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2006/12/27/how_globalization_went_bad?page=0,2]])</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__If there were rival great powers__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> with different cultural and ideological leanings, globalization's darkest </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__al Qaeda story work if half its enemy is neither Western nor Christian?__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Terrorism is an existential risk- retaliation leads to massive nuclear strikes and extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ayson, 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No Risk of Offense</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A) Soft power based cooperation avoids the negatives of unipolarity but retains the benefits</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Nye 9- </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joseph S. Nye, Jr 2009 - Dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Chair of the National Intelligence Council, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology (Los Angeles Times, bhhsnormans.net)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The Pentagon is the best resourced arm of the government, but </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">there are limits </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">United States managed to recover its soft power. It can happen again.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B) We have no choice but to look towards cooperation- unipolarity is collapsing</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Layne 12 -</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of California at Berkeley (Christopher, 2012, "The Time It's Real: The End of Unipolarity and the Pax Americana", International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 56, Ebsco, p. 2, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Some twenty years after the Cold War’s end, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__it now is evident that__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> both </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__AND__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__increasing doubts about the dollar’s long-term hold on reserve currency status.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C) Best data proves unipolar systems are substantially more war-prone than multipolar alternatives</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Monteiro, 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University (Nuno P., Winter 2012, “Unrest Assured Why Unipolarity is Not Peaceful”,[[http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/ISEC_a_00064]], KONTOPOULOS)</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__How well__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, then, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__does the argument that unipolar systems are peaceful account for__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__AND__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__higher__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.47 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__These figures provide__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__no evidence that unipolarity is peaceful__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.48</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D) The cooperation the plan spurs solves any risk of a transition war- but shifting before it’s too late is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Kupchan 3 (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Charles A. Kupchan, Political Science Quarterly, 00323195, Summer 2003, Vol. 118, Issue 2 “The Rise of Europe, America's Changing Internationalism, and the End of U.S. Primacy” Database: Academic Search Premier )</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">As this new century progresses, unipolarity will give way to a world of multiple </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">has so frequently been the precursor to great power war in the past</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.[*]</span>
=Neg= 
==Strategies== 
===Wake=== 
Politics: Elections -- Obama good with Russia-relations impact

Round 2 vs. St. Augustine (Alaska Port - P3s)
1NC: Security K, T Direct spending, Elections, Dedev (2NR), Alaska CP, Oil Advantage CP

Round 3 vs. Pace LS (Title XI -- Loan Guarantees)
1NC: T-Direct Spending (2NR), Security K (2NR), Dedev, States CP, Elections

Round 5 vs. Pine Crest BG (Maglev Rail)
1NC: T-pre existing (2NR lol), security K, elections, dedev, States CP

Octos vs. Dunwoody HD (SUSTAIN)
1NC: T-pre existing, T-public, Advantage CP (2NR), Security K, Elections, Insurance DA (2NR)

===Greenhill=== 
Politics: Elections -- Obama good with Russia-relations impact

Round 1 vs. CPS GY (Mayport)
1NC: T-military, Elections (2NR), Heidegger, BRAC CP (2NR)

Round 4 vs. CK McClatchy KH (Icebreakers)
1NC: T- vehicles, Elections (2NR), Alaska CP (2NR), Security

Round 5 vs. Blue Valley West BY (Dredging)
1NC: T-maintenance/T-increase, Security, Elections, States CP, Dedev (2NR)

Doubles vs. Bronx BK (Climate Adaptation)
1NC: Elections (2NR), Security, Offsets (2NR), Dedev, Heg Bad

===St. Marks=== 
Politics: Elections-- Obama good with Russia-relations impact

Round 2 vs. Westminster LP (CCS)
1NC: T-transportation infrastructure, T-increase, Elections, States, Security, De-dev (2NR)

Round 4 vs. GBN SK (Space Elevators)
1NC: T-transportation infrastructure, Elections, Civilian BRAC CP, Security (2NR)

Round 5 vs. UC-Lab GY (Space Ports)
1NC: T-transportation infrastructure, Elections, Security, Science Diplomacy/Colonization Advantage CP (2NR), Insurance DA (2NR)

===Michigan RR=== 
Politics: Elections-- Obama good with Russia-relations impact

Round 2 vs. Pace ES (HTF)
1NC: T-taxes aren't invesment/extra-t, Elections, Civilian BRAC CP w/ Delibrative Democracy NB, Security, Dedev (2NR)

Round 5 vs. Groves (Port Security)
1NC: T-security, AIS CP

Round 6 vs. Hooch (Port Security)
1NC: T-Security, AIS CP (2NR), Elections (2NR), T/O DA, Heg Bad

===Michigan=== 

Round 1 vs Lexington (Guam)
1NC: Heg Bad, Elections, Energy Cooperation CP, T-Military (2NR)

Round 6 vs. GBS SW (Georeferencing)
1NC: T, Dedev (2NR), T/O DA, Fiscal Cliff, Security K, BRAC CP

===Glenbrooks=== 

Round 4 vs. Dowling (Spaceports)
1NC: ESA CP, Fiscal Cliff (2NR), T-Space

Round 5 vs. Niles West (Port Security)
1NC: T-Security (2NR), Fiscal Cliff, AIS CP, Dedev, Security K

Round 7 vs. Loyola (Guam)
1NC: Fiscal Cliff, Tinian CP (2NR), T/O DA (2NR), Security K

===Northwestern RR=== 

Round 2 vs. GBS SW (Georeferencing)
1NC: T, Fiscal Cliff, DoD T/O DA, States CP, Consumption K (2NR)

Round 4 vs. Whitney Young (Waterways)
1NC: Fiscal Cliff, States CP, Consumption K, BMD Turn (2NR)

Round 6 vs. Greenhill SP (Bering Straight)
1NC: Dams DA, Soverignty DA (2NR), Fiscal Cliff, Russia CP (2NR), T

===Blake=== 
Round 1 vs. Minneapolis South TG (HSR)
1NC: Fiscal Cliff, T-No P3's, States CP, Airline T/O (2NR), Econ Advantage CP (2NR), Dedev

Round 3 vs. Lexington LS (Guam)
1NC: Fiscal cliff, DoD T/O, T-military, Alliance and SCS Advantage CP's, Brac CP w/ Deliberative Democracy NB (2NR)

Round 5 vs. Iowa City West MY (Dredging)
1NC: Fiscal Cliff, T-Maintenance, PIC out of New Jersey and New York port, Consumption K, Chinese Instability Good (2NR)

Round 7 vs. Maine East AS (HSR)
1NC: Fiscal Cliff, T-Pre-existing, Econ and Oil Advantage CP, Airline T/O, States CP, Dedev- 2NR was mostly condo

Doubles vs. Bishop Guertin DI (Dredging)
1NC: Fiscal Cliff, T-Maintenance, States CP, Army Corp T/O DA, Econ/Manufacturing CP (Manufacturing plank=2NR), Dedev (2NR)

Octas vs. St. Marks BM (NIB)
1NC: Fiscal Cliff, T-Investment w/ Extra and Effects T (2NR), Consumption K, States CP, Col Bad-Disease, Insurance DA (last two on case)

Quarters vs. GBN SK (Space Elevators)
1NC: Fiscal Cliff, T-No Space, Brac CP, Consumption K, Heg Bad (2NR)

===MBA=== 
Round 2 vs. J.P. Travavella (Natives)
1NC: Give Back the Land (2NR), T-In, Debt Ceiling, Tribal Infrastructure Bank

Round 3 vs. Dexter (Export-Import Bank)
1NC: T-finance, Airline DA (2NR), Debt Ceiling, States, New Aff's Bad

Round 6 vs. Woodward (Surface TI)
1NC: Violence Against Women Act PTX, Senate Fillibuster DA, Framework, Equity Conditions CP, PDD Agent CP, Dedev (2NR)

===Emory=== 
Round 2 vs. Cathedral Prep BD (HSR)
1NC: Corporate Tax and Fuel Economy CP (2NR), Airline DA (2NR), Hagel, T-preexisting, States, Dedev

Round 4 vs. Westminster GH (Dredging)
1NC: Hagel (2NR), States (2NR), T- maintenance, Army Corps T/O, Equity Conditions CP, Dedev

Round 6 vs. Pace ES (Gas Tax)
1NC: Hagel, T-finance (2NR), Consumption, Corporate Tax CP, Chinese Instability Good

Doubles vs. Greenhill PS (Bering Strait)
1NC: T, Hagel (2NR), Shipping DA, PIC out of development, Russia CP- do tunnel, coop with china, arctic council (2NR), Air Power bad- terrorism, conflict aversion

==Politics== 
===Elections -- Wake=== 
Obama will win the election – post-convention bounce proves – all contrary evidence is media hype
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bartlett 9/7</span>/12 – former staff director of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress; senior policy analyst in the Reagan White House; and deputy assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department for H.W. Bush, columnist for The Fiscal Times focusing on the intersection between politics and economics, (Bruce, Fiscal Times, “Why Barack Obama Will Win the Election Easily”, http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Columns/2012/09/07/Why-Barack-Obama-Will-Win-the-Election-Easily.aspx#page1)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">That said, I’m going to go out on a limb and predict that Barack </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> advertising can pull the election out for Romney.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">More deficit spending would swing the election to Romney – independents votes are key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kraushaar, ’12 </span>**(Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, [[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]], JD)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If unemployment was the only factor driving....</span>__good but voter dissatisfaction still runs high.__

**Romney kills US-Russia relations**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Larison 6/27</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> (Daniel Larison, contributing editor at The American Conservative and writes a column for The Weekonline, Ph.D. graduate from the University of Chicago, “U.S.-Russian Relations Would Get Much Worse Under Romney”, [[http://www.theamericanconservative.com/larison/u-s-russian-relations-would-get-much-worse-under-romney/]], 6/27/12, Bhattacharyya)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Putin might share some of that same distrust .... much more than they have in the last year.</span>
**Relations solve accidental war with Russia which causes extinction**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Rojansky and Collins, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">an ex-US ambassador to the Russian Federation</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[James F. Collins – Director, Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment and an ex-US ambassador to the Russian Federation, Matthew Rojansky – the deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment, August 18, 2010, “Why Russia Matters”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/08/18/why_Russia_matters, SM]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">1. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Russia's nukes are still an existential ... nuclear weapons entirely</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Butthey can only do that by working together</span>

==Topicality== 
===**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Pre-existing</span>**=== 
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Increase must be preexisting and makes something greater</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Buckley 6</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Jeremiah, Attorney, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[@http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">First, the court said that the ordinary ... See Hibbs v. Winn, 542 U.S. 88, 101 (2004) (“a phrase gathers meaning from the words around it”) (citation omitted).</span>

Interpretation – Transportation investment must apply to existing networks
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Berechman 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Yossi, Professor of Public Policy – Tel Aviv University, Transport and Economic Development, p. 114)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4.1. Basic definitions </span>In the present context,...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> latter condition is a fundamental one. fully discussed in section 5.2.</span>
===Public=== 
A. Interpretation- Transportation infrastructure is physical capital that provides __public services__
**Fourie 6** – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM
One way to define infrastructure is to describe it in terms of its characteristics. A perhaps sufficiently succinct definition of infrastructure, also called ‘social overhead capital’, is provided by Hirschman (1958). He defines infrastructure as “capital that provides public services”. In essence, infrastructure therefore consists of two elements – ‘capitalness’ and ‘publicness’. The first element is used to distinguish between infrastructure (defined as a stock variable) and public goods (defined as a flow variable) (Rietveld and Bruinsma, 1998:18). The latter element involves the general properties of non-rivalry and non-excludability. A distinction can, thus, be made between infrastructure and public capital where infrastructure
would include goods that have a capital character, but are not necessarily public. Such goods could include privately owned telecommunications, but would exclude publicly owned military equipment (which are public capital, but does not provide public services). Thus, a common feature of infrastructure seems to be that there is at least a strong public involvement in the use thereof (Rietveld and Bruinsma, 1998:19). Economists label such goods physical infrastructure, or infrastructure capital, while urban planners might refer to them as transportation modalities and utilitcies.

It’s got to be open to the public
**European Environment Agency, 10** - “Transport infrastructure investments”
[[http://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps/indicators/infrastructure-investments]]
The term “transport infrastructure” refers ...renewal and major repairs of infrastructure.

==<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Critiques</span>== 
===Heidegger=== 
The narrative of U.S. Transportation Infrastructure is en-framed within an ordered perception of technological arranging – extinction and ontological death are inevitable.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Collier 10</span> **–**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim Collier, an Associate Professor in the [[@http://www.english.vt.edu|Department of English]] at [[@http://www.vt.edu/|Virginia Tech.]] An [[@http://www.sts.vt.edu/facultylist.php|Affiliated Faculty Member]] in the [[@http://www.sts.vt.edu/index.php|Department of Science, Technology and Society]] and in the [[@http://www.aspect.vt.edu/|Alliance for Social, Political, Ethical and Cultural Thought,]] PhD Virginia Tech, as part of a project overseeing Graduate Students, [[http://phil-mod]] st.wetpaint.com/page/Marcia%27s+Combo+%28I+%26+ II%29+Essay)</span>
The “enframing” of the landscape by the automobile’s …progressively emptied of their earthly resonance (p. 86).

Discourse over the ontological structure of Transportation Infrastructure allows it to become materialized – this is the only way to achieve political freedom – our alternative is an ontological analysis of Transportation investment.
**Thiele 94** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Heidegger on Freedom: Political not Metaphysical Author(s): Leslie Paul Thiele Source: The American Political Science Review, Vol. 88, No. 2, (Jun., 1994), pp. 278-291 Published by: American Political Science Association Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2944703</span>
We observe that Heidegger's notion of … freedom bears obvious political significance.
===Security=== 
A. Discourses of danger reproduces an American identity – that posits the US as a the defender of global freedom and liberty
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Campbell, 98</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">- Professor of International Politics University of Newcastle (David, Writing Security: United States Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The crisis of representation the United States faces i....the current period of the idea that foreign policy/Foreign Policy is constitutive of political identity.</span>

B. That makes extinction inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Willson, 02</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">- </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Ph.D New College San Fransisco, Humanities, JD, American University (Brian, “Armageddon or Quantum Leap?U.S. Imperialism and Human Consciousness from an Evolutionary Perspective”, </span>[[http://www.brianwillson.com/quantum.html|**http://www.brianwillson.com/quantum.html**]]**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">)</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Awaiting the impending U.S. government's concocted ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">we are dangerously near the end of our evolutionary branch</span>__

There is an ethical responsibility to justify securitization in political discussion. The role of the ballot is to interrogate methodologies – to weigh their case the Aff has to legitimize securitization first
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Williams, 03</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> [Michael – IR Prof @ University of Ottawa, “Words, Images, Enemies: Securitization and International Politics,” International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 4 (Dec., 2003), pp. 511-53, Published by: Blackwell Publishing on behalf of The International Studies Association, JSTOR**__]__** [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3693634]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A second major criticism of the Copenhagen School ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">policies</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">or</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> by </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">disputing the threat</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, or both.36</span>

===**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Consumption 1NC</span>**=== 

**Expansion of transportation infrastructure is grounded in a production-oriented economic imaginary**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Princen et al 02 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Thomas, Professor at the School of Natural Resources and Environment at the University of Michigan, Ken Conca, Associate Professor of Government and Politics and Director of the Harrison Program on the Future Global Agenda at the University of Maryland, Michael Maniates, Professor of Environmental Science and Political Science Allegheny College, __Confronting Consumption__, pgs. 4-8)</span>
How might ordinary people<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> living …forbidden territory of consumer sovereignty</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The judge should vote negative to embrace an aesthetics of voluntary simplicity**

**It’s try-or-die for the alternative – current consumption practices make extinction inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alexander 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Samuel, lecturer at the Office for Environmental Programs, University of Melbourne, Australia, “DEGROWTH IMPLIES VOLUNTARY SIMPLICITY: OVERCOMING BARRIERS TO SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION”, Simplicity Institute Report 12b, 2012)</span>
The<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> global </span>economy is exceeding <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to sustainable consumption can be overcome.</span>

===Consumption 2NC=== 
====2NC AT: Permutation==== 

**Sequencing DA – centering consumption as a subject of ethical concern is a pre-requisite to the AFF**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alexander ‘11</span>
(Samuel, University of Melbourne; Office for Environmental Programs/Simplicity Institute, “
Voluntary Simplicity as an Aesthetics of Existence”, Social Sciences Research Network, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1941087)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For present purposes, the third and final point about how … that </span>//consumption might be one such blind spot//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====2NC Stimulus/Manufacturing Link==== 
**Their stimulus/manufacturing/financial signal advs are rooted in a production-oriented approach to the economy – the root cause of demand problems is overconsumption, not lack of supply – their attempts to stimulate demand expand growth unsustainably and cause ecological overshoot**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Princen 01 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Thomas, Assoc. Prof. of University of Michigan School of Natural Resources and Environment, “Consumption and its Externalities: Where Economy Meets Ecology”, //Global Environmental Politics// 1:3, August 2001)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All of these </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">production-oriented measures fall within</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the implicit assumption in the production angle</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">?30</span>

====2NC Framework==== 

**Our framework is good –**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, this is key to understanding society </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peterson</span> Professor in the School of Government and Public Policy University of Arizona <span style="font-size: 12pt;">& Runyan</span> Professor and former Head, Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, University of Cincinnati <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span> V. Spike & Anne Sisson Global Gender Issues Page 1-2
<span class="underline">Whenever we study a topic, we do so through a …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the likelihood of our using them in particular contexts.</span>

**Second,** **<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">the belief that only government action is allowed cedes individual responsibility which makes our impacts inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Kappeler, 95</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> [Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 5pt;">We are the war' does not mean that the responsibility for a war is …</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> values of war and violence</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


**Their framework causes error replication**
**Gunder & Hillier 09** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Senior planning lecturer in the School of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Architecture|Architecture]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planning|Planning]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Auckland|University of Auckland]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Jean, Professor of Town and Country Planning at School of Architecture, Newcastle University, __Planning in Ten Words or Less: A Lacanian Entanglement with Spatial Planning__, pgs. 111-112)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The hegemonic network</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, or bloc, initially </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… of everyone is an impossibility</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Gunder 2003a, 2003b).</span>
==Disadvantages== 
===Coast Trade off DA=== 
====1NC==== 
Coast guard budget is tight and on the chopping block now
Helvarg 12 - executive director of the Blue Frontier Campaign, an ocean conservation and policy group and author of "Rescue Warriors (David, The U.S. Coast Guard, America's Forgotten Heroes", [[http://www.sfgate.com/opinion/openforum/article/SOS-from-Coast-Guard-on-Obama-plan-to-cut-budget-3357265.php%3EJG|http://www.sfgate.com/opinion/openforum/article/SOS-from-Coast-Guard-on-Obama-plan-to-cut-budget-3357265.php>JG]])
As the most active Coast Guard rescue station on the West Coast, Surf Station
AND
are going to strip away its muscle in the name of cutting fat.
Coast Guard is normal means for the plan
AAPA 11 (American Association of Port Authorities , 10 years after 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html#linktopagetop|http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html#linktopagetop]])
In concert with public port authorities and terminal operators, the Coast Guard is charged
AND
-checks crew lists against terror watch lists in advance of arriving ships.
New spending would force internal tradeoffs that turns the aff
Biesecker 11. Calvin Biesecker, April 14, 2011. “GAO Says Coast Guard Budget Assumptions High; Admiral Says They're Not.” Defense Daily. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_6712/is_10_250/ai_n57479707/
The Coast Guard is making unrealistically high assumptions about the budgets it can expect to
AND
it's important that the Coast Guard does not push tradeoff decisions to tomorrow."
Coast Guard cutbacks could hurt programs for Counter-narcotics and preventing Drift-net fishing
Perera 12, David March 7, 2012 executive editor of the FierceMarkets Government Group ‘Coast Guard could cut back operations without NSCs, says Papp” [[http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/coast-guard-could-cut-back-operations-without-nscs-says-papp/2012-03-07]]
The Coast Guard could be forced to cut back its anti-drug smuggling operations
AND
extension, then operations would have to be cut back, Papp added.
Drift-Net Fishing causes ecosystem collapse
FAO 91 Food And Agriculture Organization Of The United Nations, ‘Driftnet fisheries and their impacts on non-target species: a worldwide review’ [[http://www.fao.org/DOCREP/003/T0502E/T0502E00.HTM]]
Although many of the controversies surrounding driftnets may be familiar issues concerning competition between fisheries
AND
the sirenians, and communities resident in seagrass beds are two such examples.
Extinction
Cairns 4 - Distinguished Emeritus University Prof. Env. Biology @ Virginia Tech (John, “Future of Life on Earth,” Ethics in Science and Environmental Politics, [[http://www.int-res.com/esepbooks/EB2Pt2.pdf]])
One lesson from the five great global extinctions is that species and ecosystems come and
AND
they leave a less habitable planet for posterity by continuing to live unsustainably?

====2NC Turns Case==== 
Cutters are our response to both disasters and bioterror
Lagan 11 Official Blog of the USCG (Christopher, August 30, 2011, “Building the national security cutter: 100 tons of steel,” Coast Guard Compass, http://coastguard.dodlive.mil/2011/08/building-the-national-security-cutter-100-tons-of-steel/
You see them everyday on America’s waterways. They have been spotted responding to humanitarian
AND
next milestone for Hamilton will be its keel laying scheduled for August 2012.

====2NC Cyber Terror Impact==== 
Cyber terrorism programs would be cut
Freedberg 12 (Sydney, April 16, 2012, “Shrinking Coast Guard Must Cut Drug War To Boost Cyber, Arctic,” AOL Defense, http://defense.aol.com/2012/04/16/shrinking-coast-guard-must-cut-drug-war-to-boost-cyber-arctic/
The Coast Guard is making some hard choices ashore, as well. As cyber
AND
need to devote some more resources," even at expense of other areas.

Effective cybersecurity is vital to prevent escalatory great power nuclear war
Fritz, 9 – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)//DR. H
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.

====2NC Link EXT==== 
Status quo port security FOCUS trades off with missions in the arctic
Currier 12 (John, vice commandant of the Coast Guard, speaks during a Budget Challenges and Opportunities panel at the Navy League’s SeaAir-Space Exposition April 18 at National Harbor, Md. At his left is Adm. Mark V. Ferguson III, vice chief of naval operations, and Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., assistant commandant of the Marine Corps. Interview by Seapower Magazine, August 2012, http://www.uscg.mil/seniorleadership/DOCS/2012-08-01;%20Seapower%20VCG.pdf)
Is the Coast Guard stretched too thin? CURRIER: We are an extremely lean
AND
lean organization, so extracting resources in one area will cost in another.

New spending trades off with the National Security Cutters
Margetta 12 (Rob, April 7, 2012, “Coast Guard Considers How to Make Do With Less,” CQ, http://public.cq.com/docs/weeklyreport/weeklyreport-000004059909.html?ref=corg)
“I understand exactly what the Coast Guard did, although I’m not sure I
AND
the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, during a budget hearing.
Current budget is tight—new programs will trade off
Freedberg 12 (Sydney, April 16, 2012, “Shrinking Coast Guard Must Cut Drug War To Boost Cyber, Arctic,” AOL Defense, http://defense.aol.com/2012/04/16/shrinking-coast-guard-must-cut-drug-war-to-boost-cyber-arctic/
Overall, the current budget cuts the Coast Guard by a thousand uniformed personnel --
AND
We have to have the courage to be able to say no sometimes."
===Space Insurance DA=== 
====1NC==== 
Space insurance premiums are declining --- but the industry is near capacity
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">de Selding 11</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Peter B., Correspondent – Space News, “Insurance Premiums Stay Flat Despite W3B Satellite Failure”, Space News, 22(20), 5-23, http://www.esri.com/library/articles/spacenews-052011.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Despite a major satellite failure last year resulting in a large claim, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">could increase the demand for insurance capacity</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


SUSTAIN is the only hope for an RLV – lowers launch costs and ensures high numbers of future launches
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Taylor </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dinerman</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, 200</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">6</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [The Space Review, Low-cost access to orbit: space Marines to the rescue, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/530/1]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">After spending more than $1.3 billion of both ...If so, once again, the Marines will have saved the day</span>.


That spikes space insurance premiums --- the pool is currently sustainable but finite
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vedda 6 </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">(J.A., Center for Space Policy and Strategy, National Space Systems Engineering, “Study of the Liability Risk-Sharing Regime in the United States for Commercial Space Transportation”, p. 42-43)</span>
//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">3.5.3 New Demands on the Insurance Pool </span>//
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">New space insurance customers ...could increase the demand for insurance capacity</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


Internal link evidence is omitted because of how terrible it is -- it will not be read again.

They kill EU soft power, that guarantees multiple extinction scenarios
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brunton 1</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (John, Deputy – Joint Committee on European Affairs, “The Future of the European Union”, 10, www.irlgov.ie/committees-02/c-europeanaffairs/future/page1.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As the Laeken Declaration put it, ...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">prevail over blind global forces that will otherwise overwhelm us</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
====2NC==== 
Relations key to stop bio-terrorist attack
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cerami and Baetjer, 06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- *Commandant of the U.S. Army War College, **Retired U.S. Army Colonel and Director of the public Service Leadership Program for the Bush School of Government and Public Services at Texas A&M, Patrick Research Assistant to the Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy (*Richard,** Joseph, The Future of Transatlantic Security Relations, May 12th 2006, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span class="underline">**Atlantic Storm showed that**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="underline"> **attack**</span>**and the incentive for staging one****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

Relations key to stabilize the Middle East
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yacoubian, 04-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Special Adviser to the United States Institute of Peace’s Special Initiative on the Muslim World, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Mona, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Special Report # 127] 10/2004 [[http://www.usip.org/pubs/specialreports/sr127.html]], KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sustained </span>transatlantic cooperation <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> country-specific approach, acknowledging that "one size does not fit all."</span>
Extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Steinbach, 02</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (DC Iraq Coalition, 3/2/02 “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: a Threat to Peace” Center for Research on Globalisation. [[http://wagingpeace.org/articles%20/0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm|http://wagingpeace.org/articles /0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, the existence of an arsenal …</span> conflict could trigger a world conflagration."

Link alone turns the case --- insurance overstretch causes broad license denial
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Vedda 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (J.A., Center for Space Policy and Strategy, National Space Systems Engineering, “Study of the Liability Risk-Sharing Regime in the United States for Commercial Space Transportation”, p. 44)</span>
//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">3.5.4 Potential Effects of Unrelated Events or a Depressed Insurance Market </span>//
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Any assessment</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of the behavior of … the end of the U.S. commercial launch industry.</span>

Reliable insurance turns resources/colonization
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Freeland 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven, Professor of International Law – University of Western Sydney, Australia, “Fly Me To The Moon: How Will International Law Cope With Commercial Space Tourism?”, Melbourne Journal of International Law, 11(1), Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While there is still much work to be done to determine the most appropriate form of regime, what is clear is that the existing international rules of space law, which rely solely on state responsibility and liability, are not appropriate for an industry that will principally be undertaken as a private commercial venture. Moreover, this regime must address not only issues of passenger liability, but also third party liability. (82) Instead, a new multilateral treaty should be developed to establish a system of liability that attaches to those private operators conducting </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">space tourism</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> activities.</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">will</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">require the …</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to create a viable and safe long-term industry.</span>



==Counterplans== 
===AIS CP=== 
Text: The United States federal government should fully fund and deploy low earth orbit satellites integrated with Automatic Identification Systems and Synthetic Aperture Radar.
CP allows us to track every vessel on the planet

Jaswinder Singh, Naval School Postgraduate, Indian Navy Captain, December 2010, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in Territorial Sea”, www.hsdl.org/?view&did=10996, ACC: 9.23.11, p. online

AIS signals can easily be detected from space by a standard AIS receiver for altitudes

AND

and AIS, then these satellites can definitely provide near-real MST.
Integration of the satellite tech is key to solve terrorism

Waleed Alsaedi, et. Al., 7-28-10, “Satellite Applications for Port Security and Resilience” Joseph Bongi Felisa Fernandez Blake Picolo Catherine Strez Michael Trent, The Center for Secure and Resilient Maritime Commerce Stevens Institute of Technology, www.stevens.edu/csr/.../SatelliteTeam_Final_SRI2010Report_.pdf, ACC: 9.25.11, p. online

In today’s world we are facing increased threat from terrorist organizations and hostile nations.

AND

likely that the maritime security network would be strengthened by is full implementation.

===Navy CP=== 
====1NC==== 
Text: The Maritime Security Policy Coordinating Committee, will establish a Maritime Domain Awareness Implementation Team. The Maritime Domain Awareness Implementation Team will develop a national maritime common operating picture.

That is the only way to have sustained development for new MDA measures
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DHS</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Department of Homeland Security, October </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2005</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “National plan to achieve maritime domain awareness for the national strategy for maritime security”, </span>[[http://www.dhs.gov/files/programs/editorial_0753.shtm|www.dhs.gov/files/programs/editorial_0753.shtm]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ACC: 9.25.11, p. online</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Achieving Maritime Domain Awareness ... consistent with the other component plans of the NSMS.</span>

MDA solves the impacts to your aff
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">DHS</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Department of Homeland Security, October </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2005</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, “National plan to achieve maritime domain awareness for the national strategy for maritime security”, </span>[[http://www.dhs.gov/files/programs/editorial_0753.shtm|www.dhs.gov/files/programs/editorial_0753.shtm]], ACC: 9.25.11, p. online
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The variety of maritime domain threats include:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">• </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nation-State Threats</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">. The prospect of major ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The accompanying economic impacts are often significant.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">2NC</span>==== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">MDA vital to U.S. naval hegemony</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Office of Naval Research, No Date</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, “Maritime Domain Awareness”, [[http://www.onr.navy.mil/en/About-ONR/science-technology-strategic-plan/Maritime-Domain-Awareness.aspx]], ACC: 9.29.11, p. online</span>

The success of naval forces depends<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> greatly </span>on situational ...<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It also includes effective dissemination of that knowledge.</span>






Naval power is key to preventing great power nuclear wars and maintaining US hegemony

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Conway, Roughead, and Allen, 07</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">- *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)</span>

This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower ...<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> conventionally, unconventionally, and with nuclear forces.</span>





<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Naval power solves terrorism</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Conway, Roughead, and Allen, 07</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">- *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf, TSK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Forward Presence. </span>**__Maritime forces will be forward ...__** __**preferably in conjunction with coalition partners.**__

===__**States CP**__=== 
====__**HSR 1NC**__==== 
**The relevant state governments, appropriate territories, and multi-state compacts related to corridors and hub networks should substantially increase investment in a national magnetic levitation express train infrastructure system. The relevant state governments should amend their constitutions to allow them to deficit spend. The relevant states should charter a public bank and place all of their reserves, tax revenues, and deeds for public lands in the public bank.**

**States solve best. They //can// __coordinate__ and, once in charge, would __improve rail efficiency__.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chicago Tribune ‘1</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Let states drive high-speed train,” Dec 24, http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2001-12-24/news/0112240192_1_high-speed-rail-investment-high-speed-train-high-speed-rail)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amtrak--the money-losing operation that ...Midwest is a prospect worth investigating, on the right terms.</span>

**Multi-State compacts specifically solve for rail.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">OPA ‘3</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Office of Public Affairs – US Department of Transportation – FACT SHEET , The Passenger Rail Investment Reform Act of 2003 – http://www.dot.gov/affairs/Passenger%20Rail%20Fact%20Sheet.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">* The Administration believes that </span>states<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not Amtrak, </span>are .... alternative to air and highway travel<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in some corridors.</span>

**Cp solves deficit spending**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Attewell 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steven, July 30, 50 State Keynesianism – Part 2, http://realignmentproject.wordpress.com/2009/07/30/50-state-keynesianism-part-2/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">in order to build state capacity for Keynesian ...fund public works and other stimulus measures in a recession</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===BRAC CP=== 

**Text: Congress should re-establish the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission modeled off of the 2005 Commission. Congress should mandate the Commission have authority to dredge, make infrastructure and wharf improvements, and construct CVN nuclear propulsion plant maintenance facilities at Naval Station Mayport for the purpose of homeporting a CVN. Congress should recommend to the Commission that it dredge, make infrastructure and wharf improvements, and construct CVN nuclear propulsion plant maintenance facilities at Naval Station Mayport for the purpose of homeporting a CVN.**

**The CP doesn’t mandate the plan---just makes a recommendation that Congress will adopt because it allows blame-shifting**
**Schwinn, 10** – Steven D. Schwinn, Associate Professor of Law at John Marshall Law School, February 19, 2010, “Obama Establishes Bi-Partisan Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform,” online: http://lawprofessors.typepad.com/conlaw/2010/02/obama-establishes-bipartisan-commission-on-fiscal-responsibility-and-reform.html

President Obama signed an executive order yesterday ...by statute or by EO.
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Impact</span>== 

===**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Dedev</span>**=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">C</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">ollapse inevitable – peak oil, food and structural instabilities make growth unsustainable. Collapse now causes a shift to localized economies. Further growth causes catastrophic failure</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Korowicz 11</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> – (5/14/11, David, physicist and human systems ecologist, the director of The Risk/Resilience Network in Ireland, a board member of FEASTA (The Foundation for the Economics of Sustainability), “In the world, at the limits to growth,”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.feasta.org/2011/05/14/in-the-world-at-the-limits-to-growth/]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet our feet of clay are that </span>our economy<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> ....and a rich texture of experience found</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





Growth makes war inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Trainer 2</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">— (Ted, If You Want Affluence, Prepare for War, Democracy & Nature, Vol. 8, No. 2, EBSCO)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If this limits-to-growth analysis is at all valid</span>**__...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> unless rich countries move to ‘The Simpler Way’. </span>



Extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chase-Dunn 96</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">— (Christopher, Conflict Among Core States: World-System Cycles and Trends, 23 January 1996, http://wsarch.ucr.edu/archive/papers/c-d&hall/warprop.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Note-figure omitted</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Late </span>**__in the__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">K-wave </span>**__upswing__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(i.e. </span>**__in the 2020s), the ....__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sweat call this the "resource theory of war." </span>



Growth causes warming – guarantees extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Li 10 </span>- (Dr. Minq, “The 21st Century Crisis: Climate Catastrophe or Socialism”, Paper prepared for the David Gordon Memorial Lecture at URPE Summer Conference 2010)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The global average surface temperature ... production and society-wide planning</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Section 6).</span>





Growth causes disease spread and mutation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hamburg 8</span>**—**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Margaret, Germs Go Global: Why Emerging Infectious Diseases Are a Threat to America, http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf)</span>
**__Globalization__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the worldwide movement toward economic...experienced a 13.4 percent drop in tourism in 2003.53 </span>



Extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yu 9</span>**—**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Victoria, Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate, 22 May 2009, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)</span>

**__A pandemic will kill off all humans__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ... into a human-viable strain (10).</span>