<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>






=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">contacts</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">bobbyzhan at gmail.com</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">rodriparamo at gmail.com</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">email both of us to get a quicker response</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">case cards and full text on request</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">good luck; have a great season</span>
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">affirmative</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">*note - the affirmatives are ranked in reverse order of date broken - the top one is the most recent</span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ac whiteness</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Have to hold it down, the rage, boils up, spills over—instead my mouth stays shut and all that's left is the shame—hate of inferiority—not being good enough, not living up to someone else’s standard—makes me question: //¿Por qué seguir debatiendo?//</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">We’re a beautiful people, the oppressed: told to forget history, hide who we are, pass as the oppressor—blend in as the guards of acceptable speech, customs, and practices. This alienated consciousness is a constant struggle that can’t be divorced, forgotten, or erased when we step into each and every debate round. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">There are languages that we choose, the languages and dialects like the ever growing language of debate—and then there’s the language that we are thrown into—the culture that we can’t step outside of—the skin and language that preconfigure our way of being. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">As students, debaters youths, activists, we are multiple: a confused split consciousness: //somos mestizas y mestizos//. We exist in the borderlands—a torsion of oppositional identities—//una herida abierta//. </span>**
<span class="BodyText3">**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Hailed: the topic calls us and begs for a response. This call of the resolution is presented in a singular mono-linguistic frame </span>****//<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">y sin embargo, cuando es dificil responder… </span>//****<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Because the hail of the resolution is taken as de-historicized, deracinated, and removed of cultural markers the ability to interpellate—to respond to the call of the resolution is stymied by the status quo conception of debate that is permeated by a dominant ideology that guides practices to suppress dissent, difference, and continues the normative power structures of an oppressive neo-colonizing society. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Oliver 2k4 </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Kelly. W. Alton Jones Chair in Philosophy at Vanderbilt University. Colonization of Psychic Space: A Psychoanalytic Social Theory of Oppression pg. 55-57]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The literary critics Kalpana Seshadri-Crooks and Juliet Flower MacCannell in different ways address the relationship between race, affect, and colo­nization using the vocabulary of Lacanian theory…Fanon </span><span class="BodyText5" style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">realized that the </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">more he asserted </span><span class="BodyText5" style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">his membership in Western civilization the more he </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">was pathologized, </span><span class="BodyText5" style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">for </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">the </span><span class="BodyText5" style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">system’s affirmation depends on its denial of </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">ever having illegitimately </span><span class="BodyText5" style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">excluded him; he is, as in theodicy, </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">a reminder of injustice in </span><span class="BodyText6" style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">a </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">system </span><span class="BodyText5" style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">that </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">is </span><span class="BodyText5" style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">supposed to have been wholly </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">good.”</span>

Transportation is poly-vocal—resonates with ships steamed, backs broken, chain gang clean up, highways above and underground railroads. Yellow bodies excluded from the conversation. Infrastructure moved westward: from the walls and checkpoints on the borders to the railroads that invited the first wave of Chinese immigrants to help unite America from the Atlantic to the Pacific—under a concept: manifest destiny—used to justify the unsettlement, un-homing, and extermination of my indigenous brothers and sisters.

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Yellow painted stripes—dividing lines running parallel and straight but never queer. Infrastructure is diaspora, migrant workers, and Montgomery bus boycotts—that bluest eye traversed by titanic tankers: it’s the tracks laid, mountains split, ports, channels, locks, and roads are paved over stolen land—made prosperous by the blood money of the trans-Atlantic slave trade. To deny this, to reduce transportation infrastructure to a single term is to selectively forget—the privilege of being able to separate your words from your body—whitewashes history by focusing on the tracks and the roads at the expense of the social aspect of transportation. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Rather than being defined by and continue the dominant ideology of transportation infrastructure we choose to interpellate differently: to never be defined in univocal terms, to remain multiple, to transform into a //coyote//, we remain in what Gloria Anzaldua refers to as a //coatlicue// state—to refuse to submit to the traditional paradigm—we choose to revolt</span>**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;"> **in opposition to the dominant ideology of border rhetoric that constructs the space of the border as full of illegal, anchor babies, wetbacks, //mojados//, where we are told to speak American or get out of the country: where queer bodies are //los jotos// or //pinche maricones//. Relegated to the borderlands of the topic, we choose to revolt against practices of supremacy and whiteness.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Oliver 2k4</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Kelly. W. Alton Jones Chair in Philosophy at Vanderbilt University. Colonization of Psychic Space: A Psychoanalytic Social Theory of Oppression pg. xvii-iii]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">There are two primary facets of psychoanalysis that make it crucial for social theory: the centrality of the notion of the unconscious and the importance of sublimation as an alternative to repression…And, as 1 show, the continual attempt to express this singular excess presupposes forgiveness.</span>
We are your half-blood, queer, undocumented, shadow, but we also speak from a place of privilege. We live in a place and time where coming out doesn't necessarily mean that we are beaten and ostracized, and being able pass as white I can mediate social circles without having my race instantly revealed, we live in a well to do suburban neighborhood, and are afforded the ability to travel around the country with relative support from our school and district.
<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">But we also participate in a community where we encounter otherness—where Bobby and I have to deal with teams telling us they don’t care about what it means to be queer and Mexican, that Bobby should enunciate because no one can understand him and that we should just get the hell out if we don’t want to follow the rules. Why this violent reaction—perhaps it’s because we’ve been taught to invest in a white ideology, to participate in a white way of debating, adjudicating, and hide behind debate tricks, tactics, reputation, school monikers, and mythology. Perhaps it’s easier to conserve the status quo than to buck tradition and revolt—the superego of the colonizer is hard to shake. But there is a way out, through forgiveness of the imaginary third—through acceptance in an open social space like debate we can effectuate change. Your ballot means something if only for this round, at this time. //Ya, basta//. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Oliver 2k4 </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Kelly. W. Alton Jones Chair in Philosophy at Vanderbilt University. Colonization of Psychic Space: A Psychoanalytic Social Theory of Oppression pg.140-142]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">The imaginary third is none other than the meaning of social signification... So the ability to sublimate—to manifest affects in words or representations—has everything to do with finding socially available meanings that can facilitate the transfer from mute experience to meaningful articulation.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">When confronted with the topic hail Bobby and I revolt—respond by creating a new interpretation of bodily drives through a process of sublimation. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should increase its investment in bridges on the borderlands/ //la frontera//. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">As a community we are linguistically, psychically, culturally sexually constantly in the borderlands—we are an intersection as individuals and as a community of activists, future policy makers, and artists. Gloria Anzaldua explains that </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Anzaldua 87 </span>**<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Gloria. Author, feminist/queer/race theorist //Borderlands/La Frontera.// Preface to the first edition]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">The actual physical borderland that I'm dealing with in this book is the Texas-U.S Southwest/Mexican border…where the space between two individuals shrinks with intimacy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">This tactic, and use of the trope and metaphor of bridges in the borderlands is important because it provides a new epistemological architecture for discussing borders without over-determining the border space as a line in the sand that geographically justifies the violence of the nation state. It’s not about fiating government action—it’s about the productive use of language—the use of metaphor—of bridges as coalitions and investment in our community. This metaphorical imagination creates a way to reclaim agency from the colonization of the nation state—imagine this debate through the trope of bridges, coalitions, and forgiveness. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Alvarez 2k12</span>**<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Robert. Robert F. Kennedy Visiting Professor in Latin American Studies in the Department of Anthropology, Harvard. Founded the Association of Latino and Latina Anthropologists in the American Anthropological Association and has served as its president and chair of the nominations committee. He is on the board of directors of the Society for Applied Anthropology, the executive committees of the Center for Iberian and Latin American Studies, and the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) where he is a professor in the Department of Ethnic Studies. Borders and Bridges: Exploring a new Conceptual Architecture for (U.S. – Mexico) Border Studies, Journal of Latin American and Caribbean Anthropology. Vol 17, No. 1., pg. 30-32]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Two decades ago the Mexico-U.S. border was a different place, as was the whole region and hemisphere… In the end, people’s lives have changed dramatically not only along the border but also in the broader range and depth of the borderlands and mobile frontiers of the nation state.</span>





<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>


==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ac suicide bomber</span>== 

**Debate puts Bobby and I in a dilemma, a paradox of responsibility: we have to be affirmative - configured by a linguistic frame. The resolution we are hailed by an indeterminate other, to justify road, planes, trains and automobiles as relief to a particular type of oppression and asked to choose: to attend to a particular huddled mass or the entire huddled mass to save from impending doom… but we are just people in a room pleading for a ballot, using the currency of oppression as justification as a win the moment that we decide to decide. While this is not specific to debate, the structure of a tournament and the game has the affirmative debaters communicate their justification for their affirmation.**

**A brief story might help illuminate our discussion: The call of god to Abraham to sacrifice his son Isaac presents Abraham with the conflict of his particular love of his son and the love of his God. This is the problem of sacrifice, of decision, of having to choose. Every choice to respond to a particular other is the decision to not to respond to every other other. The world is finite, or choices constitute who we are, but how can we act, know if our actions are correct—how are we supposed to be ethical in a world that is indeterminate and detached from a telos? To choose to not to choose, that is a choice as well: to ignore the call of the other entirely.**
**Caputo**, David R. Cook Prof. of Philo. @ Villanova U., **1997**
(John D., The Prayers and Tears of Jacques Derrida, pg. 203-5)
The alterity of every other, of friends or … others, the faces of whom we see daily on the evening news.

**Still, responsibility is fickle, it would be easy to just pick an ethical frame: to defend a calculation, to rationalize a decision to respond—to claim responsibility for the consequences of our actions based on a code, religion, morality and fake it. We could choose to respond like Agamemnon—who responds to the call of his brother: for revenge against Paris with constant justification. Stuck without wind, unable to help his brother Menalauous—Agamemnon couldn’t leave for Troy. In order to set sail and gain favorable winds he offered his daughter, Iphigenia, up as a sacrifice. When the ships finally sailed to Troy it was assumed that the gods were appeased. But this economy of sacrifice doesn’t end here. When Agamemnon returned home, his wife Clymestra and her lover Aegisthus killed him to avenge Iphigea. Later, Agamemnon’s son killed his mother and her lover in order to avenge his father. Perhaps this all started with a boast, hubris, the killing of one of Artemis’s deer, or the rape of Helen, but the economy of sacrifice is unending as long as the sacrifice is able to be justified and moralized. Agamemnon’s actions serve as a way to moralize morality- that in order to fulfill his ethical duty to his brother a sacrifice is needed and is justified by the overall good. It is this unproblematized idea of morality that facilitates war.**
Tracy **Strong** Prof. of PoliSci @ Harvard, explains in **2003**.
[Tracy, “Nietzsche and Legal Theory (Part 1): Where are We when We are Beyond Good and Evil,” Cardozo Law Review 24:2, January)
There is a realization and a warning … an eternity of deathly silence... ."

**The problem is that we aren’t given a rulebook to life, aren’t given a telos to chain our existence to. One day we will be gone and it will be over before we realize we ever lived. We have several choices as affirmative debaters: we can respond to the call of the resolution by not debating, by not attending to anyone impacted by transportation infrastructure, we could act like Agamemnon, or we could act line Abraham. We choose father Abraham. While Many Sons had father Abraham, father Abraham also attempted to kill his son Isaac, but his decision to turn his back on his community and secretly sacrifice his son to god without question, transgresses the narcissism of the sacrificial economy of calculation that is ethics. Unlike Agamemnon though, there is no justification—just the aporia of responsibility. Every decision to act in the name of a universal ethic entails the sacrifice of all those not within the world view of that ethic or the reduction of the singularity of an other to a narration that fits with a simplistic understanding of their particular situatedness, this effacement is the erasure of that which makes us human—our absolute singularity. The only response to the particular other is the gift of death—of irresponsibility—and this isn’t easy—but the sacrifice of ethics: of an action absent of all justification for the sake of responsibility to the singularity of the absolute other—is the only option.**
**Derrida '95** [Jacques Derrida. The Gift of Death. 1995, pg. 58-62] Professor of the Humanities at the University of California, Irvine
Kierkegaard-de Silcntio recalls …for a tragic hero such as Agamemnon).

**When hailed by the call of the resolution, Bobby and I unconditionally affirm that The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.**

**The decision in this round is to transgress our ethical duty, to actively undo our own actions, to stich with one hand and take the stich apart with the other hand. This is the paradox of acting within a world of sacrifice. We aren’t cancelling Christmas and running wild in the streets. Our argument isn’t for inaction: quite the opposite, our argument is a call for an ethical aporia—of an instantaneous affirmation of action that radically accepts the responsibility of our actions—that accepts the intended and unintended consequences of our actions: it is a genuine decision absent any justification—the only decision.**
Dennis **Keenan** builds upon this sacrifice in **2005**. [Dennis King. The Question of Sacrifice. 2005, pg. 150-152]
Derrida writes, within the context of … other as other and as unique (the God of Abraham defined as the one and unique)” (DM 68/GD 68).

**And this openness to the possibility of responsibility to all others absent justification is necessary to not efface the singularity of the other.**
**Fernando 10** [Jeremy. Jean Baudrillard Fellow at the European Graduate School, Research Fellow at the Centre for Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. The Suicide Bomber; and her gift of death. New York, Dresden, pg. 66-69.]
If we are to attempt to think of the … the question of 'what is the economy of the gift'.

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ac sandoval</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Who we are is a beautiful people told to forget history, to hide who we are, to pass as the oppressor—to blend in as the guards of acceptable speech, customs, and practices. This alienated consciousness is a constant struggle that can’t be divorced, forgotten, or erased when we step into each and every debate round. Thinking this way: it shutters, stumbles, stammers—makes language quake. There are languages that we choose, the languages and dialects like the ever growing language of debate—and then there is the language that we are thrown into—the culture that we will never be able to sever ourselves from; the way that the world is received, mediated, effected and changed. The space between, the pauses and silences, intonation, resonance, all culturally conceived—guide and shape thinking, but linguistic separation and assimilation cause cognitive dissonance. As students, debaters youths, activists, we are multiple: a confused split consciousness: somos mestizas y mestizos…</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Anzaldua 87 [Gloria. Author, feminist/queer/race theorist Borderlands/La Frontera. Pg. 38-44]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Deslenguadas. Sornos los del espaftol deficiente. … the mestizasand mestizos,will remain.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hailed: the topic calls us and begs for a response. This call of the resolution is presented in a singular mono-linguistic frame y sin embargo, cuando es dificil responder… Because the hail of the resolution is taken as de-historicized, deracinated, and removed of cultural markers the ability to interpellate—to respond to the call of the resolution is stymied by the status quo conception of debate that is permeated by a dominant ideology that guides practices to suppress dissent, difference, and continues the normative power structures of an oppressive neo-colonizing society. The language of supremacy and oppression is everywhere.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Chela Sandoval explains in 2000 that</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sandoval 2000 [Chela. associate professor of critical and cultural theory for the Department of Chicano Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Methodology of the Oppressed. Theory out of Bounds Vol. 18. Univ of Minnesota Press.126-128]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Long before Barthes methodically encoded ..,. In Part IV of this book, this rhetoric of love is identified as a means of social change.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An irresponsible reading of the resolution would neglect the way that transportation infrastructure has historically disadvantaged particular populations—from the walls and checkpoints on the borders to the transatlantic railroad that invited the first wave of Chinese immigrants to help unite America from the Atlantic to the Pacific—under a concept: manifest destiny—used to justify the unsettlement, un-homing, and extermination of my indigenous brothers and sisters.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">How are two debaters supposed to interpellate, if as Althusser said, the process of dominant ideology constitutes our identity and the process of discourses and institutions that hail us in social interactions defines our identity?</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rather than being defined by and continue the dominant ideology of transportation infrastructure we choose to interpellate differently: to never be defined in univocal terms, to remain multiple, to transform into a coyote, we remain in what Gloria Anzaldua refers to as a coatlicue state—to refuse to submit to the traditional paradigm—we choose a differential oppositional consciousness that dissents against traditions and structures of domination.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sandoval 2000 [Chela. associate professor of critical and cultural theory for the Department of Chicano Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Methodology of the Oppressed. Theory out of Bounds Vol. 18. Univ of Minnesota Press. 30-31]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">I discussed earlier survival skills developed … in this book. The structures of this method, who utilizes it, and how and why it is practiced are the subjects of Part III.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In opposition to this</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">When confronted with the topic hail bobby and I respond poly-vocally.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government should increase its investment in bridges on the borderlands/ la frontera.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As a community we are linguistically, psychically, culturally sexually constantly in the borderlands—we are an intersection as individuals and as a community of activists, future policy makers, and artists. Gloria Anzaldua explains that</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Anzaldua 87 [Gloria. Author, feminist/queer/race theorist Borderlands/La Frontera. Preface to the first edition]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The actual physical borderland … shrinks with intimacy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This tactic, and use of the trope of bridges in the borderlands is important because it provides a new epistemological architecture for discussing borders without over-determining the border space as a line in the sand that geographically justifies the violence of the nation state.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Alvarez 2k12 [Robert. Robert F. Kennedy Visiting Professor in Latin American Studies in the Department of Anthropology, Harvard. Founded the Association of Latino and Latina Anthropologists in the American Anthropological Association and has served as its president and chair of the nominations committee. He is on the board of directors of the Society for Applied Anthropology, the executive committees of the Center for Iberian and Latin American Studies, and the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) where he is a professor in the Department of Ethnic Studies. Borders and Bridges: Exploring a new Conceptual Architecture for (U.S. – Mexico) Border Studies, Journal of Latin American and Caribbean Anthropology. Vol 17, No. 1., pg. 30-32]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Two decades ago the Mexico-U.S. … range and depth of the borderlands and mobile frontiers of the nation state.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Far from being a singular affirmation that is just about the content of an argument, argumentation is fraught with intonation, variance, noise, and intangibles that affects each interlocutor. As such it isn’t just what is said that it is important, but who is speaking, why they are speaking, and how they are speaking. This poly-vocal affirmation is important because terms like the United States federal government, bridges, transportation, and investment vary based upon lived experience and the cultural thrown-ness of each person hailed by the topic. Our affirmation is not just about the plan in a vacuum—it is about how the statement is contextualized and used that is important. Our affirmation of an oppositional differential consciousness is necessary to open up liminal space within the dominant ideology of colonialism that inflects violence on the colonized through an imposition of linguistic management.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lugones 2K6 [Maria. María Lugones is a philosopher, activist, and popular educator. Author of Pilgrimages/Peregrinajes: Theorizing Coalition Against Multiple Oppressions (Rowman and Littlefield, 2003), she teaches at Binghamton University, SUNY, in both the Comparative Literature Department and the Philosophy, Interpretation, and Culture Program. She also teaches in and codirects the Escuela Popular Nortena, a center for popular education in the United States since 1967. She was born in Argentina, and her philosophical and political work focuses on coalition formation in resistance to intermeshed oppressions. “On Complex Communication” Hypatia 21.3 (2006) 75-85. Project muse.] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Alfred Arteaga explains the relation … open up, to complicate, the polyglossia.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Let’s be clear, there is no singular way of being in the world, no singular reading of our struggle against oppression—the third way, the oppositional differential consciousness embodied in our affirmation is a strategy of tactics that uses the tools of dominant ideology against itself, this contestatory gesture: the methodology of the oppressed is necessary to read the signs of oppression to keep revolutionary gestures from calcifying into “natural” political practices that recreate new scenarios for oppression.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sandoval 2000 [Chela. associate professor of critical and cultural theory for the Department of Chicano Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Methodology of the Oppressed. Theory out of Bounds Vol. 18. Univ of Minnesota Press.183-184]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Barthes warns that when ideologies … inside of ideology—that humanly constructed artifice of meaning itself.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ac military ocean terminals</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Global crises are inevitable – There will inevitably be international contingencies that will require rapid military responses</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ward Wilson (former Fellow at the Robert Kennedy Memorial Foundation) 2006 “Rationale for a study of City Annihilations,” http://wardhayeswilson.squarespace.com/city_annihilation/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">One of the characteristics of … and arguments about risk and rationality</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Infrastructure limitations can add almost 2 weeks to critical ammunition shipments – ensuring broadened transport capability is key to avoid strategic bottlenecks</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Paul Murphy (Major, United States Airforce, MA in Mobility Studies) 1999 “THE AVAILABILITY OF CONTAINER SHIPPING NEEDED TO MEET WARTIME AMMUNITION SUSTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA372314</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">V. Ammunition Port Restrictions</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">What throughput limitations exist at … last two ofthe four permanent bridges that large vessels must fit under in order to get into a berth.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">These bottlenecks crush our military’s surge deployment capability – link magnitude is massive – effective MoTs are pre-requisites to over 90 percent of our sealift capability</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">VanHoosen 97 [Paul VanHoosen, Lieutenant Commander, February 7, 1997, “MILITARY OCEAN TERMINALS WHO NEEDS THEM?”, Naval War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA325154]],</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">With these actions, the 1995 …, high profile CINC customer. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Err on the side of caution – overinvestment is better than underinvestment – otherwise we develop a false sense of security – hollows out our entire military capability</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fogleman 94- MA in military history and pol sci, former chief of staff of the Air Force (Ronald R., “Reengineering Defense Transportation,” DTIC, Winter, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA528899)//mat]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The ability of Assyria in the 7th … is the stem without which it could never have blossomed.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This is particularly true NOW – investment in our strategic mobility infrastructure is key to efficiency – acts as a force multiplier in the face of budgetary cuts elsewhere</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">McNabb 11- retired Air Force general (Duncan J., “We Measure Success Through the Eyes of the War Fighter,” Air and Space Power Journal, Winter, [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a555500.pdf]])mat</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strategic Context Demands … in suitable positions to enable global reach.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The aff is the linchpin of all rapid response and power projection globally</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Paul Murphy (Major, United States Airforce, MA in Mobility Studies) 1999 “THE AVAILABILITY OF CONTAINER SHIPPING NEEDED TO MEET WARTIME AMMUNITION SUSTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA372314</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States … and strategic success</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Credible maritime support is key to USPACOMs effectiveness – otherwise the US will be overwhelmed in the theatre with regional contingencies </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Keating 09[Timothy J. Keating, retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM, March 19, 2009, “ STATEMENT OF ADMIRAL TIMOTHY J. KEATING, U.S. NAVY COMMANDER U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND BEFORE THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE ON U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND POSTURE”, PACOM, [[http://www.pacom.mil/web/pacom_resources/pdf/19MAR09%20PACOM%20SASC%20Posture%20Statement.pdf]], DMintz]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Advocacy of programs critical … multi-nation operations. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Military Ocean Terminal infrastructure upgrades are critical to USPACOM effectiveness</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fraser 12[William Fraser, February 28, 2012, “Statement of General William Fraser, USAF Commander, United States Transportation Command Before the Senate Armed Services Committee On the State of the Command”, United States Transportation Command, [[http://www.armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2012/02%20February/Fraser%2002-28-12.pdf]], DMintz]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Infrastructure improvement … the Pacific Theater.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Otherwise we will be completely absent in the region – lift capabilities are key</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Gulledge and Keating 10[Jay Gulledge, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, served on the faculties of Tulane University and the University of Louisville, Timothy J. Keating, retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM,// 2010 “Future Naval Operations in Asia and the Pacific” in “Climate and Energy Proceedings 2010”, Johns Hopkins University, page 344-345, [[http://www.jhuapl.edu/ClimateAndEnergy/Book/Chapter/Chapter7.pdf]], DMintz]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">*All text is from Timoth y J. Keating</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The instrument of foreign policy … for success in the region.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Two Impact Scenarios</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">First is South China Sea</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US maritime deployment credibility and strength is key to prevent war in the South China Sea – key to force peaceful cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cronin and Kaplan 12 [Patrick M. Cronin, Senior Advisor and Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, and Robert D. Kaplan, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, January 2012, “Cooperation from Strength The United States, China and the South China Sea”, Center for New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_CooperationFromStrength_Cronin_1.pdf]], DMintz]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There is an ineluctable geostrategic …. during a visit to the region in November 2011, is that all countries play by the same set of rules. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The impact is multiple nuclear conflicts</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Straits Times 2k (Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The high-intensity scenario … that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Scenario Two is Korea</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">North Korean conflict is inevitable – having the capability to project forces is key to prevent conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Chi-dong 12[Lee Chi-dong, June 8, 2012, “NK proliferation threatens both U.S. and China: Panetta”, Yonhap, [[http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2012/06/08/52/0301000000AEN20120608000400315F.HTML]], DMintz] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States and China share …sufficient force to do that," he said. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Korean war goes nuclear</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">De Luce 10 [Dan de Luce, November 25, 2010, “War with North Korea Poses Nightmare Scenarios” AFP, [[http://www.abs-cbnnews.com/global-filipino/world/11/25/10/war-north-korea-poses-nightmare-scenarios]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A full-blown war on the … from the US military -- raising the danger of the world's first nuclear war. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for transportation infrastructure for the Defense Transportation System in and around its military ocean terminals.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Military Ocean Terminal usage is ramping up now – uncertain funding will hamstring ammunition transports</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Keating and Sommerhauser 12 (Edward G. Keating, professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School, senior economist specializing in defense economics issues, PhD, economic analysis, Stanford University, Daniel Sommerhauser, Statistical Project Associate in the Statistical Research and Consulting Group, RAND, MA, statistics, University of Missouri, “Funding Ammunition Ports,” RAND, Technical Report, Arroyo Center, 2012, http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/technical_reports/2012/RAND_TR1204.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ammunition port workload … future funding levels are, of course, uncertain.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Current funding structure guarantees rampant price volatility - Creating a stable funding structure for ammunition port infrastructure can prevent it – ONLY the military can solve</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Keating and Sommerhauser 12(Edward G. Keating, professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School, senior economist specializing in defense economics issues, PhD, economic analysis, Stanford University, Daniel Sommerhauser, Statistical Project Associate in the Statistical Research and Consulting Group, RAND, MA, statistics, University of Missouri, “Funding Ammunition Ports,” RAND, Technical Report, Arroyo Center, 2012, http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/technical_reports/2012/RAND_TR1204.pdf,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Here we set forth criteria to evaluate prospective port funding arrangements (appropriation,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">working capital fund, some hybridization thereof).</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">One criterion we espouse is … must be done by government operated depots.3</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation infrastructure to Military Ocean Terminals is necessary to ensure efficient response times and prevent logistical nightmares</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">HDR 04 (HDR Engineering, global firm providing architecture, engineering, consulting, construction and related services, “Economic Feasibility Study for the Restoration of the Wallace to Castle Hayne Rail Corridor and Associated Port/Rail Improvements,” North Carolina Department of Transportation Rail Division, February 2004, http://www.bytrain.org/quicklinks/reports/WtoWEconomicStudy.pdf, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">5.5.5 Military Ocean Terminal … project even though a specific dollar value cannot be easily identified for use as a valid benefit in the analysis. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Evaluate competing predictions with the following probability condition: only a claim plus warrant plus strong data should be given a default near 100% probability. Strong data requires 1) explicit citation of 2) quantified research. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rosekind 09 [Mark R. Rosekind, Ph.D Kevin B. Gregory Alertness Solutions The Moebus Aviation Report on "Scientific and Medical Evaluationof Flight Time Limitations": Invalid, Insufficient, and Risky Alertness SolutionsJanuary 2009] [ct]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a. While the extensive … in addressing all of the questions posed.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Assume the negative arguments have zero effects unless proven with strong data because they are within the statistical margin for error. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Zellner 07</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Arnold Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago Philosophy and objectives of econometrics Journal of Econometrics Volume 136, Issue 2, February 2007, Pages 331-339] [ct]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">On the relation of science and … is thus , “No effect unless shown otherwise.”</span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ac connolly - media </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">part one: the daily show</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An interesting thing occurred on October 6th, where in a debate with Bill O’Reilly, Jon Stewart said</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Honestly, I think we’ve lost … is fundamentally undermining it, I think that's bullshit. [[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The reality of transportation inequality - corporations profit from private transportation - an exclusivity of a good that exacerbates social inequality and racial isolation. We need a more efficient, accountable form of government when it comes to transportation infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bullard et al 7 - Robert D. Bullard is a Ware professor of sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. His most recent book is The Black Metropolis in the Twenty-First Century: Race, Power, and Politics of Place (2007). Glenn S. Johnson is a research associate in the Environmental Justice Resource Center and an associate professor in the Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice at the same university. He has coedited a number of books, including Highway Robbery: Transportation Racism and New Routes to Equity (2004). Angel O. Torres is a geographic information system training specialist with the Environmental Justice Resource Center. He also has coedited several publications, including Sprawl City: Race, Politics, and Planning in Atlanta (2000) and Highway Robbery (Dismantling Transportation Apartheid in the United States Before and After Disasters Strike, Vol. 34 No. 3 By 207) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation is the second largest … aid in lifting families out of poverty.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation was one of the crucial sites for radical change in America—but inequality continues—transportation still lacks civility and rights when it comes to access—and as such we need a national strategy for equity in the context of transportation infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bullard, 9 – Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University. Previously Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University (Robert, Highway Robbery: Transportation Racism and New Routes to Equity, edited with Glenn Johnson and Angel Torres, South End Press, Janurary 1, 2009, accessed googlebooks)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">People of color communities …smart growth debate. If they do not do it, it is unlikely to get done. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The American dream, the promise of a big red Buick, 2.5 kids, and a low interest rate home with a white picket fence is an illusion built on a political economy of exclusive goods. This keeping up with the joneses is unsustainable - an exclusive economy creates a discourse of blaming and scapegoats - assumptions about the welfare queen and the forty seven percent who just want to collect a government check kilsl pluralism. But there is a way out—this economics of greed and exclusivity can be reversed through state incentives to public goods like transportation.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 95 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, The Ethos of Pluralization, pg at bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The American political economy …necessarily fosters social uniformity.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">83-84</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Therefore after reflexive analysis and deliberation, Bobby and I offer the following plan:</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government should increase its transportation infrastructure investment in New Starts inclusive transit.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2012 budget killed new starts</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mitchell, 12 – reporter invested in the development of transportation infrastructure (Tazra, Senate Transportation Budget Eliminates New Starts Program, Limiting Hard-Working North Carolinians’ Mobility Choices, http://pulse.ncpolicywatch.org/2012/06/11/senate-transportation-budget-eliminates-new-starts-program-limiting-hard-working-north-carolinians-mobility-choices/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Senate Transportation Budget … step further and also appropriate $32.5 million on a non-recurring basis.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New Starts transit is key – improvements are critical to building inclusive transit systems and rail projects – cost effective and successful rail</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">TI 12 – ti.org – non profit organization designed for transportation knowledge (The future of New Starts, http://ti.org/antiplanner/?p=6207)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Last week, the House …, or HOT lanes, other than the existing system or no-build.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan action is crucial to reversing course in the context of the political suffering caused by the lack of access to public transportation in the status quo —through a politics of becoming - challenges the most intense suffering–political suffering–suffering that is caused and continued by the constructed policies of sovereignty.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 99 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, Why I am Not a Secularist 51-52]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The most difficult …in a reflective and sensitive way.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">part two: no spin zone</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Another amazing thing happened in that air-conditioned auditorium, Bill O’Reilly said something quite unforgettable:</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The problem with … and its not getting any better either</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">I wish it was that easy, Bill, that the causes of structural inequality could just be blamed on the evil capitalists—with their tentacle like arms and general desire to do no good. The understanding of emergent causality takes protoagency and preadaptive systems in account - it isn’t as simple as linear cause and effect, the forces at work are in a state of disequlibrium—polyvalent factors resonate together to contribute to a system of unsustainable economics.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Campbell et al 2k7[David Campbell: Int’l boundaries Research, Geography Department, Durham U: with Stuart Elden and Stephen Graham Luiza Bialasiewisz: Department of Geography at Royal Holloway U of London, and Alex Jeffrey from the School of Geography at the U of Newcastle, “Performing security: The imaginative geographies of current US strategy” pg on bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Methodologically this approach requires an … spawn new persona to replace them.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">408</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">What’s interesting in O’Reilly’s analysis is his inability to include his own bellicose and violent rhetoric - this blame shifting from the conservative right to capitalism and back to the media is all part of a process of pointing the finger so that neoliberal capitalists, media think tanks, and the conservative right remain unchallenged and our current political divide continues with disastrous consequences. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 2k8 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, Capitalism and Christianity, American Style, page numbers are at the bottom of the card.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An abstract will to dismiss other … is now embraced. Hence George Bush on Christianity.9</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And Exclusive goods decrease the value of a good over time, inclusive goods that change public infrastructure create a positive political spiral and spillover into other areas of political suffering—our affirmative is important for the possibility for dynamic change in society.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Howarth 10 – Political Theory at the Department of Government of the University of Essex (David, this essay is part of a collection of papers on William E. Connolly’s Capitalism and Christianity, American Style published in Political Theology 12.2)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly’s initial proposal to tackle these social and political … other words, these forms seek to make use of the conditions of pluralism to forge and enact ‘new, positive identities’ out of ‘old differences, injuries and energies’ (Connolly 1995, xiv).</span>

----
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Stewart and O’Reilly 2k12 [Jon and Bill. Talking heads. [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A051B-uPopM]]. Transcribed]</span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ac connolly - the road</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">chapter 1 </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An inky scar running through a barren and burning land—is the setting for Cormac McCarthy’s the road—where a fictional father and son exist in a constant state of motion—their hardships and triumphs would culminate in a Pulitzer prize. When used to filter this year’s resolution it is important to ask: what is our road? What is the state of the world that we live in?</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Currently Cowboy capitalism and the right wing evangelism resonate together to justify poverty, racism, violent exclusion, and torture that justifies letting million’s die –as the fulfilled promise of the book of revelations—where the chosen are saved and the rest burn hell…</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 2k8 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, Capitalism and Christianity, American Style, page numbers are at the bottom of the card.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An abstract will to dismiss other .. Bush on Christianity.9</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But perhaps the rapture has come—and we are merely tuning into the dying messages of an already dead world where the framers interpret god’s word for the masses: it’s funny how think tanks, the talking head’s, manipulate images exactly the way cousin zack told you they would: fear is your only god on the radio… turn it off.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 2K5[William. Krieger-Eisenhower Professor of political science at Johns Hopkins University, where he teaches political theory. “The Media and Think Tank Politics.” Theory and Event 8:4. Project Muse.] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The point is that the think tank/ .. have little to do with it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This state of discourse, danger and fear secures an identity that reinforces an evangelism of fear that is preoccupied by death and culminates in the atrocities of Cambodia, various holocausts, Vietnam, and the thousands of nuclear weapons waiting to fulfill the prophecy of the end of days.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Campbell 92 [David Campbell is Professor of Cultural and Political Geography, and part of the Durham Centre for Advanced Photography Studies(http://www.dur.ac.uk/dcaps/)Writing Security: United States Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity. 1992] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Crudely summarized, the … as giving rise to a boundary rather than acting as a bridge. [53-56] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Along the road there are a lot of people—and their intentions aren’t so clear: no matter how much hope and change we’re promised—on the road it as a way of ending badly.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Even if we have a liberal president the capitalist evangelical resonance machine is alive and well, the tea party surge is a perfect example—existential revenge and American capital are still running rampant.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 2k8 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, Capitalism and Christianity, American Style, page numbers are at the bottom of the card.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But is this religious, spiritual stuff... to the texture of economic life.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">chapter 2 </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And thought:</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">You may find yourself behind the wheel of a large automobile</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">You may find yourself in a beautiful house with a beautiful wife</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">You may ask yourself, well, how did I get here?</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our affirmative breaks out of the politics of resentment and suffering—a politics of becoming challenges the most intense suffering–political suffering–suffering that is caused and continued by the constructed polices of sovereignty. Suffering that can be reversed.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 99 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, Why I am Not a Secularist 51-52]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The most difficult cases … in a reflective and sensitive way.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">chapter 3</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">With the first grey light he rose and left the boys sleeping and walked out to the road… everything paling away into the murk. The soft ash blowing in loose swirls over the blacktop… He knew only that the child was his warrant. He said: if he is not the word of God God never spoke. [cormat macarthy: the road pages 4-5]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finding things along the road is important; it’s life and death. Findings show that exclusive goods kill the economy, increases inequality, and harm the environment – inclusive goods foster pluralism through transit systems</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 95 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, The Ethos of Pluralization, pg at bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The American political … fosters social uniformity.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">83-84</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">chapter 4</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Throughout the text of the road the concept of carrying the fire is essential—harkening to the Promethean robbery of the power of the gods—an essential driving force, the divining rod for their family was the idea that they still carried the fire, that in a world of misery and pain, someone fought for justice. It is important to know that there is a way out of the capitalist evangelical resonance machine—our road is not even close to being as as bleak, we carry the fire but, there is no techno fix – the 1ac fosters assemblages that create alliances and coalitions through creating light rail of new starts– that are critical to productive praxis to challenge the discrimination of racism – through the inclusive good of transportation</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bullard, 9 – Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University. Previously Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University (Robert, Highway Robbery: Transportation Racism and New Routes to Equity, edited with Glenn Johnson and Angel Torres, South End Press, Janurary 1, 2009, accessed googlebooks)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">People of color communities … smart growth debate. If they do not do it, it is unlikely to get done. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And so Bobby and I offer the following</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should increase its transportation infrastructure investment in New Starts inclusive transit.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2012 budget killed new starts – now its called it false starts</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mitchell, 12 – reporter invested in the development of transportation infrastructure (Tazra, Senate Transportation Budget Eliminates New Starts Program, Limiting Hard-Working North Carolinians’ Mobility Choices, http://pulse.ncpolicywatch.org/2012/06/11/senate-transportation-budget-eliminates-new-starts-program-limiting-hard-working-north-carolinians-mobility-choices/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Senate … a non-recurring basis.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New Starts transit is key – improvements are critical to building inclusive transit systems and rail projects – cost effective and successful rail</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">TI 12 – ti.org – non profit organization designed for transportation knowledge (The future of New Starts, http://ti.org/antiplanner/?p=6207)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Last week, the House Transportation … existing system or no-build.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New Starts transportation investment in rail is the crucial inclusive good that creates pluralism – building transits combats discrimination and offers opportunities and hope.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bullard et al 7 - Robert D. Bullard is a Ware professor of sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. His most recent book is The Black Metropolis in the Twenty-First Century: Race, Power, and Politics of Place (2007). Glenn S. Johnson is a research associate in the Environmental Justice Resource Center and an associate professor in the Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice at the same university. He has coedited a number of books, including Highway Robbery: Transportation Racism and New Routes to Equity (2004). Angel O. Torres is a geographic information system training specialist with the Environmental Justice Resource Center. He also has coedited several publications, including Sprawl City: Race, Politics, and Planning in Atlanta (2000) and Highway Robbery (Dismantling Transportation Apartheid in the United States Before and After Disasters Strike, Vol. 34 No. 3 By 207) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation is the .. lifting families out of poverty.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The aff creates a productive political spiral– effectuating federal policy changes the foundational structures of government control</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Howarth 10 – Political Theory at the Department of Government of the University of Essex (David, this essay is part of a collection of papers on William E. Connolly’s Capitalism and Christianity, American Style published in Political Theology 12.2)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly’s initial proposal to … and energies’ (Connolly 1995, xiv).</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ac new orleans </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">advantage 1 is speed </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Levees will inevitably fail – leaves entire populations vulnerable</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Associated Press 8/31 – Cain Burdeau, reporter (8/31/12, Isaac renews old debate about Louisiana levees, http://news.yahoo.com/isaac-renews-old-debate-louisiana-levees-205959649.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">IRONTON, La. (AP) — When Hurricane .. warn that more will follow.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Patchwork applications of speed enable the rendering of populations disposable</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Steinberg 8 (Philip E., 2008, “What is a City? Rethinking the Urban after Hurricane Katrina,” http://books.google.com/books?id=v1x2cbHvULAC&dq=What+Is+a+City%3F:+Rethinking+the+Urban+After+Hurricane+Katrina&source=gbs_navlinks_s, mat)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The flooding that … had been taken for granted.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Speed isn’t inherently bad- using speed for globalized endeavors at the expense of the locally marginalized causes the Accident</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tiessen 5 (Matthew, 12/28, Space and Culture, “Speed, Desire, and Inaction,” [[http://sac.sagepub.com/content/9/1/35]], mat)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It was pointed out in a recent … had heretofore been taken for granted.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The future is inherently unpredictable – plan is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sa, 4 – Deug Whan, Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)RK</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In many cases, a small choice ..are faced with the same initial internal states, the same environments, and governed by the same causal relationships.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Building transportation infrastructure helps rectify the psychological trauma of Katrina</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Steinberg 8 (Philip E., 2008, “What is a City? Rethinking the Urban after Hurricane Katrina,” http://books.google.com/books?id=v1x2cbHvULAC&dq=What+Is+a+City%3F:+Rethinking+the+Urban+After+Hurricane+Katrina&source=gbs_navlinks_s, mat)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The ensuing sense of … contributed to the disaster.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Speed applied solely to technocratic elites makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable— — speed must be examined and redistributed to enable democratic deliberation -- the politics of speed guarantees mass conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sykes 9 – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online) //BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In Virlio’s view, the war machine is …politicize speed. (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">advantage 2 is racism</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should increase its evacuation infrastructure investment in New Orleans.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The intersection of race and poverty and car-lessness made the aftermath of Katrina into an overwhelming display of institutional racism. Mass transportation is critical for evacuation</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wailoo et al. 10 (Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984, Yale University; M.A., 1989, and Ph.D. (History and Sociology of Science), 1992, University of Pennsylvania; joint appointment: Associate Professor of History, Karen M. O’Neill- Karen M. O’Neill studies how land and water policies change the standing of program beneficiaries and experts and change government's claims to authority and power., Jeffrey Dowd- graduate student, Roland Anglin- Associate Research Professor; Director, Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) Rutgers University-Newark ; Katrina’s Imprint: Race and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A landmark decision most known today for its application …difficult in many inner-city neighborhoods.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Obligation to preclude the potentiality of the past’s repetition requires government action on Katrina</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jorgenson 11 Hurricane Katrina: Humanitarian Obligations and Lessons Learned Ellen Jorgenson Case-Specific Briefing Paper Humanitarian Assistance in Complex Emergencies University of Denver 2011 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">According to Fred Cuny, the root cause …policy and practice.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Environmental justice demands federal action; leaving policies up to local populations recreates disasters as communities fail to live up to their obligations to the poor.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Morse 2008 - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, [[http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf]] )ALo</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The American transportation model ….care and treatment. 194</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A recognition of the Other constructed by Katrina is critical to combat institutionalized racism and the logic of disposability</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Scheper-Hughes 5- prof of anthropology (Nancy, December, Anthropology Today, “Katrina: The disaster and its doubles,” [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/3694939|www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/3694939]], mat)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">At times of crisis and catastrophe, people seek an explanation for what … utterly failed them.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our obligation is to make the state ethical – the state is inevitability and the alternative to state ethics is the destruction of the other</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Simmons 99William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Since ‘it is impossible…of what it wants to secure.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A crisis focused ethic is wrong – attention to isolated instances of warfare ignores the daily horrors of militarist exceptionalism. This is the precondition for any war to happen</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cuomo 96 – PhD, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Philosophy, University of Cincinnati (Chris, Hypatia Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Issue 3, pg 30)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin Schott introduces …be the inevitability of war and militarism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The 1AC is a pedagogical advocacy that opens up new opportunities for democratic deliberation and political action. A recognition of our obligations to the materially deprived helps to combat the biopolitics of disposability.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Giroux, 6 – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Biopolitics is not just about the … lifeblood of democracy,</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Environmental justice demands federal action; leaving policies up to local populations recreates disasters as communities fail to live up to their obligations to the poor.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Morse 2008 - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, [[http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf]] )ALo</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The American transportation model … care and treatment. 194</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Natural disasters are inevitable and chaotic - New Orleans still lacks mass transit evacuation plans – the carless will be trapped again.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Renne et al. 8 – Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The objective of this study … bound to be repeatedunless best practices can be understood and adopted widely (Jenkins, Laska and Williamson 2007).</span>

=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">framework - instrumentality </span>=== 

**The affirmative is not the enactment of topical action better than the status quo or a competitive option – that interpretation sets the model for debate**

**“Resolved” before a colon reflects a legislative forum**
**Army Officer School ’04** (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and Semicolon”, http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm)
The colon introduces … this council petition the mayor.

**“USFG should” means the debate is solely about a policy established by governmental means**
**Ericson ‘03**
(Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)
The Proposition of Policy: … action that you propose.

**Part one is Transportation –**
**Status quo politics makes it try or die– switch side engagement with governmental transit policy challenges several factors that erode effective transportation policy – in round discussion of effective pragmatic solutions are vital to reverse trends and jumpstart beneficial reform**
**Lewis and Williams, 99** (David, Ph.D., President, Hickling Lewis Brod Economics, Inc., and Fred Laurence, Ph.D., United States Department of Transportation, “Policy and Planning as Public Choice Mass Transit in the United States,” Ashgate Publishing Company, pg. 27-33, [[http://www.fta.dot.gov/documents/Policy_and_Planning_as_Public_Choice.pdf]], Tashma)
A primary goal of the research reported in … have been impatient with difficult measurement.

**Part two is dialogue.**
**Unbridled affirmation outside the game space makes research impossible and destroys dialogue in debate**
**Hanghoj 8**
http://static.sdu.dk/mediafiles/Files/Information_til/Studerende_ved_SDU/Din_uddannelse/phd_hum/afhandlinger/2009/ThorkilHanghoej.pdf¶ Thorkild Hanghøj, Copenhagen, 2008 ¶ Since this PhD project began in 2004, the present author has been affiliated with DREAM (Danish¶ Research Centre on Education and Advanced Media Materials), which is located at the Institute of¶ Literature, Media and Cultural Studies at the University of Southern Denmark. Research visits have¶ taken place at the Centre for Learning, Knowledge, and Interactive Technologies (L-KIT), the¶ Institute of Education at the University of Bristol and the institute formerly known as Learning Lab¶ Denmark at the School of Education, University of Aarhus, where I currently work as an assistant¶ professor.
Debate games are often based … goal, should be dialogue as an end in itself” (Wegerif, 2006: 61).

**Dialogue is the biggest impact—the process of discussion precedes any truth claim by magnifying the benefits of any discussion**
**Morson 4**
[[http://www.flt.uae.ac.ma/elhirech/baktine/0521831059.pdf#page=331|http://www.flt.uae.ac.ma/elhirech/baktine/0521831059.pdf#page=331]]
Northwestern Professor, Prof. Morson's work ranges over a variety of areas: literary theory (especially narrative); the history of ideas, both Russian and European; a variety of literary genres (especially satire, utopia, and the novel); and his favorite writers -- Chekhov, Gogol, and, above all, Dostoevsky and Tolstoy. He is especially interested in the relation of literature to philosophy.
A belief in truly dialogic ideological ,,, must do is keep the conversation going.

**Dialogue is critical to affirming any value—shutting down deliberation devolves into totalitarianism and reinscribes oppression**
**Morson 4**
http://www.flt.uae.ac.ma/elhirech/baktine/0521831059.pdf#page=331
Northwestern Professor, Prof. Morson's work ranges over a variety of areas: literary theory (especially narrative); the history of ideas, both Russian and European; a variety of literary genres (especially satire, utopia, and the novel); and his favorite writers -- Chekhov, Gogol, and, above all, Dostoevsky and Tolstoy. He is especially interested in the relation of literature to philosophy.
Bakhtin viewed the whole … may proceed in much the same way, in an ongoing spiral of intolerance.

**Part three is decisionmaking.**

**Linking the ballot to a should question in combination with USFG simulation teaches the skills to organize pragmatic consequences and philosophical values into a course of action**
**Hanghoj 8**
http://static.sdu.dk/mediafiles/Files/Information_til/Studerende_ved_SDU/Din_uddannelse/phd_hum/afhandlinger/2009/ThorkilHanghoej.pdf¶ Thorkild Hanghøj, Copenhagen, 2008 ¶ Since this PhD project began in 2004, the present author has been affiliated with DREAM (Danish¶ Research Centre on Education and Advanced Media Materials), which is located at the Institute of¶ Literature, Media and Cultural Studies at the University of Southern Denmark. Research visits have¶ taken place at the Centre for Learning, Knowledge, and Interactive Technologies (L-KIT), the¶ Institute of Education at the University of Bristol and the institute formerly known as Learning Lab¶ Denmark at the School of Education, University of Aarhus, where I currently work as an assistant¶ professor.
Joas’ re-interpretation of … and domain-specific processes of problem-based scenarios.

**Decisionmaking is a trump impact—it improves all aspects of life regardless of its specific goals**
**Shulman,** president emeritus – Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, ‘**9**
(Lee S, Education and a Civil Society: Teaching Evidence-Based Decision Making, p. ix-x)
These are the kinds of …in the lives of citizens.


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">t - energy</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Electricity generation, transmissions grid, oil refineries, and natural gas are energy infrastructure not transportation </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Faulkenberry, MBA – University of Southern California, 11 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Ken, “Infrastructure Investment: Energy, Transportation, Communications, & Utilities”, Arbor Asset Allocation Model Portfolio Blog, September, http://blog.arborinvestmentplanner.com/2011/09/infrastructure-investment-energy-transportation-communications-utilities/, soap)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Energy Infrastructure Energy Infrastructure … infrastructure spending.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">t - vehicles</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">“Transportation infrastructure” is transport infrastructure , not vehicles</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GC 12 (Global Cargo & Commodities Limited, “Haulage & Transport”, http://www.globalcargogh.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=44&Itemid=132)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The field of transport… considered part of the operations.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">t - pipelines</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Interpretation - pipelines is explicitly NOT TI - case list and exclusivity</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">United States Chamber of Commerce, 10 (“Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report” 9/23/10 [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]].pdf)dm</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Step 1 – Definition: Transportation Infrastructure …, freight rail, marine, and intermodal.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Limits - Keystone pipeline explodes the boundaries of a large topic - their aff justifies energy or waste transplant</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Predictability - Transportation is centered on moving people and goods on a fixed platform - Keystone fails</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation infrastructure excludes pipelines - Keystone pipeline proves</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">USA Today, 2012 (“Federal transportation bill enters legislative homestretch” 5/1/12 http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/story/2012-05-01/federal-transportation-highway-bill/54660278/1)dm</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The bill is driven … the Keystone provision.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">t - military </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Infrastructure is physical capital that provides public services – it excludes the military</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fourie 6 – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">One way to define infrastructure is to … might refer to them as transportation modalities and utilitcies.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">t - substantial </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The term substantial is too vague to be used in policy debates</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nagin, 2004</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Stephen E., Attorney for Respondents before the Federal Trade Comission: Basic Research, A.G. Waterhouse, Klein-Becker USA, Nutrasport, SÖVAGE DERMALOGIC LABORATORIES, Ban, Dennis Gay, Daniel B. Mowrey, “United states of America Before Federal Trade Commission,” June 28, http://www.ftc.gov/os/adjpro/d9318/040628respmodefinitestmnt.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Commission’s failure to define the term “substantial” …to be meaninglessto doctors, lay people and prosecutors alike.’”).</span>


==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">disads</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">elections</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Federal transportation investment is unpopular and can turn the election – empirically Obama gets blamed</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">USC News 4-17-12 [“Transit Policy Is Pivotal on Road to the White House”, [[http://news.usc.edu/#!/article/33401/transit-policy-is-pivotal-on-road-to-the-white-house/|http://news.usc.edu/#!/article/33401/transit-policy-is-pivotal-on-road-to-the-white-house/]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Following decades of bipartisan consensus, … that you can’t keep spending with the country in financial trouble.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China Relations on upswing, Romney victory guarantees trade war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wingfield and Katz 10-23-12 (“Romney’s Pledge on China Currency Won’t Be Met in a Day” http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-24/romney-s-pledge-on-china-currency-won-t-be-met-in-a-day.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">“On day one, I will label … Oct. 22 opinion [[http://www.brookings.edu/blogs/experts/bushr|article]].</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The impact is escalating trade war</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Michael Spicer 1996 (economist and member, Tory Party, British Parliament, THE CHALLENGE FROM THE EAST AND THE REBIRTH OF THE WEST, p. 121.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The choice facing the West … two a penny, stability will be at a premium in the years ahead.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">congestion</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The congestion that the aff claims to solve is good because it fuels commuter frustration—causes movement to mass transit</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">IBM, 11 (IBM News releases, “IBM Global Commuter Pain Survey: Traffic Congestion Down, Pain Way Up,” 8 September 2011, [[http://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/35359.wss,MH]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The survey results reflect an … commute of the cities studied, followed by London and Chicago.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mass transit boosts the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fitzgerald et.al. ’10- professor and director of the graduate program in Law, Policy and Society and a Senior Research Fellow at the Kitty and Michael Kukakis Center for Urban and Regional Policy at Northeastern University (Joan, Granquist, Khatiwada, McLaughlin, Renner, “Reviving the U.S. Rail and Transit Industry: Investments and Job Creation”, WorldWatch Institute, pg 10)//NJ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">With the federal transportation … development in key industries.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Maintaining economic growth, development and technology is the only way to solve emerging crises that risk massive deaths</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Baker 2k – Former Industrial Economist, (Brent Barker, electrical engineer, and manager of corporate communications for the Electric Power Research Institute and former industrial economist and staff author at SRI International and as a commercial research analyst at USX Corporation, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability.” EPRI Journal, Summer, INFOTRAC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The power of technology These … and supported by public policy.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">renewables t/o</span>=== 

**US is leading the clean-tech race now**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Swartz 11</span>**

Jon, May, “Big companies aggressively jump into clean tech,” http://www.usatoday.com/tech/news/2011-05-25-green-tech-investing_n.htm

A few years ago, investing in green…__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">creates a </span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">huge, transformational picture</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">" in energy use</span>__, he says.



**Clean tech leadership averts global war – independently turns warming and economy**

**Klarevas 9** – Professor of Global Affairs

Louis, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html|Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony]]</span>”, Huffington Post, 12-15, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html

**__By not addressing climate …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to </span>__keep potential foes in check__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">sprawl</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sprawl is over – census and overwhelming expert consensus</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Karlezig 12 - Warren Karlenzig is president of Common Current, a global consultancy for sustainable urban planning and development (Warren, Census and Experts Confirm Death of Sprawl in US, http://sustainablecitiescollective.com/commoncurrent/38937/census-and-experts-confirm-death-sprawl-us)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States has reached an historic moment. …, auto-dependant sprawl.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Under the guise of economics, transportation infrastructure dissociates local populations and marginalizes the relocated through eminent domain and sprawl- causing trauma and ethical violations of displacement.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Smith, 2009 – Professor Emeritus of Anthropology at the University of Florida (Anthony Oliver, Development-Forced Displacement and Resettlement: A Global Human Rights Crisis)//BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The displacement and resettlement …alternative models and strategies for socially responsible development.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Structural harms outweigh all other considerations.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Abu-Jamal 98 (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, …and terrible violence passes away with them.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">critiques</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ooo</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The OTHER is EVERYTHING, from organisms to the artificial, we owe ourselves to it - letting beings-be is the only moral imperative.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Introna 10</span>**(LUCAS, PROFESSOR OF ORGANIZATION, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICS @ LANCASTER UNIVERSITY, AI & SOC, 2010, VOL. 25, “THE ‘MEASURE OF A MAN’ AND THE ETHOS OF HOSPITALITY: TOWARDS AN ETHICAL DWELLING WITH TECHNOLOGY,” PG. 93-102)

Instead of creating value <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span> Is such a community possible?



The 1ac conflates 'life' with 'organism' - this perpetuates the biological fallacy. Only by shifting to an object-oriented-ontology can we resist the impulses toward anthropocentrism and the destruction of the biosphere.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rowe 96</span> — Stan Rowe, Professor Emeritus at the University of Saskatchewan, 1996 (“From Shallow To Deep Ecological Philosophy,” //Trumpeter//, Volume 13, Number 1, Available Online at fhttp://trumpeter.athabascau.ca/index.php/trumpet/article/view/278/413, Accessed 07-26-2011)//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Organisms can be “alive” one …</span> roots of evolutionary creativity.//



//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The alternative is an affirmation of intentionality. We should choose to no longer engage in an ethics of use value towards the object. This means exactly what you think it means: we should refuse to use the object for human gain. We must abandon ethics which allows the enslavement of concrete for our roads, and the enslavement of flora and fauna for our meal.</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Extinction inevitable, this ethical paradigm is the only thing you should affirm.</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Clark 10</span>//

//(Nigel, Senior Lecturer in Geography @ Open University, UK,// Parallax//, Vol. 16, No. 1, Open Research Online, “Ex-Orbitant Generosity: Gifts of Love in a Cold Cosmos,” http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.1080/13534640903478809, Pg. 80-95)//

//In this way, **__desire or love__**// is// … turning toward and turning away has a defining quality. If not us, then who?



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ocularcentrism</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ocularcentrism through vision upholds a single static truth – leads to authoritarianism and totalitarianism in ideology.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hibbitts, 94 – Professor at the University of Pittsuburgh School of Law, “Making Sense of Metaphors Visuality, Aurality, And The Reconfiguration of American Legal Discourse”, http://faculty.law.pitt.edu/hibbitts/meta_p2.htm)BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It is this "objective" quality of sight that … a static conception of eternal truths.'"378</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The affirmative attempts to judge its problems solely on its sight, but this ocularcentric reliance on vision and light blinds from the true oppression and violence in the world</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Taylor, 6 – University of Toronto (Chloi, "Hard, Dry Eyes and Eyes That Weep: Vision and Ethics in Levinas and Derrida”, Postmodern Culture, [[http://pmc.iath.virginia.edu/text-only/issue.106/16.2hipsky.txt)/BZ|http://pmc.iath.virginia.edu/text-only/issue.106/16.2hipsky.txt)//BZ]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">15. Returning to "Violence and … of an experience mediated by language. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The blindness that accompanies our static vision causes violence, rage and inhumanity through the inability to face the victims of our actions</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Taylor, 6 – University of Toronto (Chloi, "Hard, Dry Eyes and Eyes That Weep: Vision and Ethics in Levinas and Derrida”, Postmodern Culture, [[http://pmc.iath.virginia.edu/text-only/issue.106/16.2hipsky.txt)/BZ|http://pmc.iath.virginia.edu/text-only/issue.106/16.2hipsky.txt)//BZ]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">11. David Michael Levin has … modern forms of violence.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Absent a critical interrogation of the category of disability, eugenics and exclusion on a mass scale is inevitable.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bagenstos, 2000- Professor of Law at the University of Michigan, Lecturer of Law at Harvard Law School (Samuel, “Subordination, Stigma, and “Disability”, 86 Va. Law Review 397)BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The historic exclusion of people … group as a “dependent caste.” 190 </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ocularcentric implementations justifies normalization – a flawed conception of identity that reifies domination.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Connolly 95 [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, The Ethos of Pluralization, pg at bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hermeneutics, at least in its pastoral… encounters Nietzschean genealogy.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">13-14</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The quest for a pure identity is set against the backdrop of difference and the drive for truth in identity converts difference into otherness, and necessitates scapegoats to secure the appearance of the identity. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Schoolman 2k8 [Morton, Professor of Poli Sci at NYU, The New Pluralism, page on bottom of page]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Whereas Augustine's solution to the first … or consumed by resentment.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">48-49</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Visual metaphors alter our epistemological orientation to be violent and exclusionary to others</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hibbitts, 94 – Professor of Law at the University of Pittsuburgh (Bernard, “Making Sense of Metaphors”, http://faculty.law.pitt.edu/hibbitts/meta_int.htm)BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A string of recent articles and books has stressed … world, rather than become actively engaged with it.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">existentialism link</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And their ethic of the wanderer necessitates an occularcentric approach to ethics, the idea that viewing painting and observation of the world is necessary to wandering is problematic, this is the section of their article right after the alternative evidence</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Caranfa 01 (Angelo; Instructor of Philosophy at Stonehill College; “The Aesthetic Harmony of How Life Should Be Lived: Van Gogh, Socrates, Nietzsche”; The Journal of Aesthetic Education; JSTOR)RSW à MR</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Those who teach introduction to … emotion is possible on an aesthetic level of experience.10</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">gift </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The ethical action they take is an attempt to give the pitiable and meek other the benefit of the gift of the Affirmative – transportation infrastructure of _. The aff takes the position of the savior and the gifted becomes the debtor who must repay the compassionate kindness of the affirmative.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Zupancic 2K3 [Alenka, Researcher at the institute of philosophy, Slovene academy of sciences, Ljubljana, Nietzsche’s Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two. Page 54-57 ]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">All this could be related to another important … unable to forgive simply because he—forgot”).26 </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The need for a unified self results in an economy of mastery and domination. Dominating outlooks ultimately have a need for satisfaction. A satisfaction that comes from changing the other into a unified self. This is inherently bad and manipulation of the other and self is rampart – causes totalitarianism</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Taylor '84 [Mark C. Taylor. Erring:. A Postmodern A/Theology,. Pg. 25-29]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The psychology of mastery realizes … feel thoroughly satisfied with themselves and at home__ in the world. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The gift without justification or consequence is the only way to get out of the Aff’s gift giving techniques. The “gift of death” allow us to sacrifice ethics in the name of absolute responsibility. The Alternative is complicit with the affirmative but sacrifices the justifications of ethics for action.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Derrida'95 [Jacques Derrida. The Gift of Death. 1995, pg.63-67]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the exemplary form of its absolute … responsibility as sacrificial responsibility. </span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">indian reservations</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">portraying indians as wards of the government in need of assistance is racist and posits inferiority</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Meister & Burnett 2004- Associate Professor of Communication, and Associate Professor of Women’s Studies, both of North Dakota State University</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Mark & Ann, “Rhetorical Exclusion in the Trial of Leonard Peltier” American Indian Quarterly, Volume 28, Numbers 3 & 4, Spring/Summer Issue, ajones)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> In the legal context, the American Indian is …dependence for years to come.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">imposing european concepts of infrastructure on indians destroys cultural identity </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Harris no date - Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation (Stuart G. “ A NATIVE AMERICAN PERSPECTIVE ON SUSTAINABLE</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">INFRASTRUCTURES” http://www.iiirm.org/publications/Articles%20Reports%20Papers/Environmental%20Protection/SD-Cornell-2.PDF ajones)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">INFRASTRUCTURE HAVE-NOTS It … if we work together and put cultures and ecologies ahead of economic convenience. </span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">security</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The judge should take on the role of the intellectual – vote negative to exchange the ontology of being for one of becoming—this free relationship to technology entails a questioning that can break free from technological thought and re-imagine the world from outside the political space</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Burke 7—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">I was motivated to begin the larger project from … of insecurity and violence? Will our thought?</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">trade</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Trade as peace economizes the process of life rendering inefficient ways of life superfluous and expendable.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sachs, Fellow – Institute for Cultural Studies 1992, The Development Dictionary ed. Sachs</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">With a naivete hardly … for the sake of protecting their markets.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">hegemony</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hegemony elevates security to a transcendental ideal—it creates a moral framework for violence that requires the elimination of all that is different or unpredictable.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Der Derian 2003</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[James, Associate Professor of Political Science at University of Massachusetts Amherst, “Decoding The National Security Strategy of the United States of America, boundary, 2 30.3, 19-27]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">From President Bush's …., and war is peace.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">competitiveness</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Competitiveness discourse is a double turned by their free trade arguemnts mobilizes populations for economic warfare—it’s the product of threat construction and identity consolidation, not economic reality.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bristow, Senior Lecturer in Econ. Geography @ Cardiff U, in ‘4</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Gillian, “Everyone’s a ‘winner,’”Journal of Economic Geography 5.3: 285-304]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ultimately, the language of competitiveness …on the actual improvement of economic welfare.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">baudrillard</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There aren’t evil capitalists running the world meeting in secret trying to find a way to get over on the little guy, the real problem is the code, the structure of out consumer society prevents genuine social revolutions—it permits fashion revolutions that are integrated into the logic of consumption—this is because consumption itself is not a desire for an object but it is a quest for differentiation, for the consumption of the sign of the object, for the status the object confers—without analyzing the role of the sign, change is impossible.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Turner ’98 (Chris, has translated more than sixty books from French and German, including fourteen by Jean Baudrillard. His recent work includes translations of Pascal Quignard’s Sex and Terror and Roving Shadows (winner of the Prix Goncourt in 2002). He is a member of the editorial advisory board of the academic journal Cultural Politics. The consumer society [7-8] pg)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Later, Baudrillard puts this another … people who are only able to decode messages unconsciously.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The affirmative assumes that everything could just get better if I just had transportation, that the bus or rail—that access is a fix all. But this misses the point, consumption isn’t just the desire for an object, it is the need for differentiation, a consumption of the sign of difference, what is consumed is the status conferred by the object—the consumer society is a perpetual keeping up with the jonses. Consumption is a structure external to and coercive of the body—the code is how we communicate—it is our modern discipline, o learn how to properly consume—and this belief in affluence, that if we have status we will somehow have everything is a sham, a sham life, filled with sham objects. Transportation is just one more access point to a world of useless objects—it doesn't enable participation in the good life because the good life is about human relations, not consumption.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Turner ’98 (Chris, has translated more than sixty books from French and German, including fourteen by Jean Baudrillard. His recent work includes translations of Pascal Quignard’s Sex and Terror and Roving Shadows (winner of the Prix Goncourt in 2002). He is a member of the editorial advisory board of the academic journal Cultural Politics. The consumer society pg)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">To Baudrillard, consumption is not merely a …in the thrall of consumer society, would be able to decipher it.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">capitalism</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The course of rampant deterritorialization fails to bring change – their disjointed politics makes concentration of power in the elites inevitable and leaves the forces of capitalism untouched. Only a unified, territorialized, struggle can solve.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Zizek, 2008 (Slavoj, “Nature and its discontents,” SubStance, Issue 117 (Volume 37, Number 3))</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In Venezuela, Hugo Chavez's biggest … everyone," the substance kept alive by incessant subjective productivity.[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/substance/v037/37.3.zizek.html#f5|5]] [End Page 44] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It’s try or die for the revolution – capitalism will inevitably cause extinction, reform and incrementalism only hide this fact</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kovel, Alger Hiss Professor of Social Studies at Bard College, awarded Fellowship at the John Guggenheim Foundation, 2002 (Joel, The Enemy of Nature, pages 5-7)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As the world, or to be more exact, the Western,…in the chapters to come. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The alternative is Transition Wars</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the face of the affirmatives futile search for a painless liberation or micro-level resistance we affirm seizing power in an attempt to radically overthrow capitalism</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Zizek, 2003 (Slavoj, Senior researcher at the Institute for Social Studies at Ljubljana, Slovenia, “Liberation Hurts – an interview with Slavoj Zizek,” Interview with Eric Dean Rasmussen, September 29, [[http://evans-experientalism.freewebspace.com/rasmussen.htm)| http://www.electronicbookreview.com/thread/endconstruction/desublimation)]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Now I come to truly answering you. … be really hurt. No, sorry, it hurts. </span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">critique of nomadology</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Deleuze’s politics fail to create change – focusing on micropolitics does not guarantee macro level change and the method of everyday forms of politics are inseparable and indistinguishable from the operations of capitalism</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Dean, 2005 (Jodi, “Zizek against democracy,” Law, Culture and the Humanities, Volume 2, Number 2)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Zizek’s three arguments against … and exclusion there can be no politics. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Delueze and Guattari fails in totality – engages in the wrong form of dissent or politics –Levi Bryant, Professor of Philosophy at Collin College, July 24, 2006, online: http://72.14.253.104/search?q=cache:T_sC35niRnoJ:larval-subjects.blogspot.com/2006/07/hallwards-critique-of-deleuze.html+%22critique+of+deleuze%22&hl=en&gl=us&ct=clnk&cd=4, accessed October 21, 2006</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1. Turn – Deleuze and Guattari’s rejection of subjectivity makes progressive action impossible. Their political strategy would forgo prescribing changeAs I mentioned in a previous … these masterpieces of ontology that was already my own?</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Symptom 2006. Online Journal for Lacan.com. “The Future of Another Illusion: Theory and Zizek’s Organ’s Without Bodies”. Ebsco Publishing.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The work of Foucault, "Deleuze's ... a theoretical blind spot in their thinking.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. Turn - Their method of politics is ignorant of real world constraints. They cede the political by creating binary, all-or-nothing, opposition against the state.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hallward 2006 (Peter, Professor in the Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy at Middlesex University, London, Out of This World: Deleuze and the Philosophy of Creation, p. 161-162)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Now Deleuze understands perfectly…to individuals, classes, or principles.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Failure to engage causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Boggs 1997(Carl, Professor of Political Sience – National University, Theory & Society 26, December, p. 773-4)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The decline of the public … universal, collective interests that had vanished from civil society.75</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">3. Turn – far from complete interdependence, nomadism results in tribal cliques cut off from cross-culturalism and shared meaning </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">De Lange, 2009 (Michael, Ph.D. from the Erasmus University of Rotterdam, “4.3 ‘Digital nomadism’: a critique,” part of a dissertation on mobile media and identity, http://www.bijt.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2009/12/090916_chapter4_section3-nomadism.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We have seen that the ‘digital .. as media of flight and as media of coherence.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">virilio</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Virilio, 1997 – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, [[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]] 81-83) BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But let us get back to Europe’s … long-distance to be connected.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sykes, 2009 – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online) BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In Virlio’s view, the war machine … must politicize speed. (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The alternative is to brake—academic discussions must slow down and critically investigate the politics of speed before we come to a decision – does not preclude the aff. Your responsibility as an intellectual is to vote negative to foster democratic engagement and not rush to judgment</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Glezos 2009 - Ph.D. in political theory and international relations from Johns Hopkins University, now works in the department of political science at University of Regina ([[http://www.lib.umich.edu/articles/search?author=Glezos%2C%20Simon|Simon]], “ The politics of speed: Capitalism, the state and war in an accelerating world” [dissertation] pg. 93-94) BW</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The goal then is … the (Globalitarian) state.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The drive for transportation infrastructure has foreclosed time and speed – accelerating past politics and meaning</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Virilio, 07 – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, negative horizon, originally published in 84, redone in 2007)BZ</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">your affirmation generalizes bare life—the camp becomes a universal condition – turns case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bratton, 2006 – Professor at the Southern California Institute of Architecture and UCLA (Benjamin, speed and politics, verso, [[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]] introduction to Virilio’s book Speed and Politics, edited by Sylvere Lotringer, 20-22) BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But to be sure, Virilio’s core exhortation … staged at our expense and on our behalf.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">existentialism alt</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The alternative is a refusal for the abdication of praxis from the 1ac that engages in democratic pluralism that challenges the ideological dogmatism of the aff – the only way to cultivate agency of existentialism that resolves the academic tensions of the 1ac authors</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rasheed 2k7 [Shaireen, professor of philosophical foundations at long island university, an existentialist curriculum of action, pg at bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Greene's work has certain important points of … at curriculum issues from an existentialist point of view with respect to freedom.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">4-6</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">neolib</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The intersection of capital and society divides the US into third world spheres – globalization fractures the possibility of equality – triggers a race to the bottom that eliminates and whitewashes value</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Dyer-Witheford ‘1 Nick, Associate Professor in the Faculty of Information and Media Studies at the University of Western Ontario, “The New Combinations: Revolt of the Global Value-Subjects” The New Centennial Review, Volume 1, Number 3, Winter2001, pp. 155-200 (Article) [muse]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the postwar era, the famous … catalyzing the new combinations</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The economy is dead, propped up with government propaganda and business flyers – this economic scarcity destroys the worker - empirically proven by wage decreases</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Perelman ‘5 Michael, Professor of Economics at CSU-Chico, “Manufacturing Discontent: The Trap of Individualism in Corporate Society” Pluto Press, p. 50-54</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Manipulating the labor …, Table B2: 322 and Table B 47: 376).</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">environment</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The affirmative’s presentation of environmental reform is not an objective measure of reality but rather a subjective knowledge of the world rooted in managerialism and informed by the motivations of global fast capitalism. Nature is transformed into a set of natural resources to be preserved for future consumption, leading only to more exploitation.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Luke 2002 (Timothy W., Department of Political Science at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Eco-Managerialism: Environmental Studies as a Power/Knowledge Formation, Aurora Online Magazine)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Before scientific disciplines and industrial … resources for a more thorough, rapid, and perhaps intensive utilization.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">You should position yourself as an intellectual to historicize the affs discursive practices to render them contingent---environmental policy-making is driven by symptom-led solutions that ensure crisis externalization and serial-policy failure---epistemological reflection changes the social and cultural coordinates that make environmental and resource conflicts inevitable.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ahmed 12 Dr. Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed is Executive Director of the Institute for Policy Research and Development (IPRD), an independent think tank focused on the study of violent conflict, he has taught at the Department of International Relations, University of Sussex "The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society" Global Change, Peace & Security Volume 23, Issue 3, 2011 Taylor Francis</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">While recommendations to …, effective, and joined-up policy-making on these issues.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">boredom</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In a paradigm where life has no values and meaning is arbitrary—all values are drained of meaning. All choices are equally meaningful. This leveling drives the search for meaning substitutes—something to break out of the return of the same—so we live the live of a tourist where we feel the need to break traditions and transgress boredom. And we see this in debate with the continued accumulation of attempts at newer aff that run away from the topic.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Svendsen 2k5[Lars. Associate Professor in the Dept of Philosophy, University of Bergen, Norway. A Philosophy of Boredom. Pages at the end of the card]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In many ways, Patrick Bateman … it has been aestheticized.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(79-80)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The aff achieves this identity by a means of transgression, of expanding and exceeding the limits of his surroundings, this attempt to transgress boredom—is an attempt to experience something radically other, aesthetics and ethics collide</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Svendsen 2k5[Lars. Associate Professor in the Dept of Philosophy, University of Bergen, Norway. A Philosophy of Boredom. Pages at the end of the card]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The first words in American … traditional values and social conscience, and to fight materialism.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">rationality/bifo</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ghill doubles</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Deterrence and hegemonic control results in nuclear war – every second is enveloped in constant conflict. This creates an acceleration of destruction and a ceding of autonomy.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Glezos, 2012 – Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Regina (Simon, “The Politics of Speed”, originally published through a dissertation to Johns Hopkins in 2009; however, it was republished through Routledge in 2012)BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The intransigence of the city … subordinates political control to military control.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The economy is premised on speed – acceleration collapses and turns the case- empirically 2008 – only the alternative solves the economy long term</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Virlio, 2012 – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, The Administration of Fear, collection of interviews with Bertrand Richard, translated by Ames Hodges, accessed Scribd)BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Yes, and people are required …. and simultaneity would be absolutely uninhabitable.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The accident permeates politics – creates chaotic international relations</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jervis, 97 – professor of international affairs at Columbia (Robert, “Complex Systems: The Role of Interactions”, Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, http://www.dodccrp.org/html4/bibliography/comch03.html) BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Similarly, the effect of one variable or … be attributable to the questions we ask.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The future has become dystopic, malleable by human will where disaster runs rampant. Despite attempts of linearization or generalization, the future is so chaotic that attempts like the g8 or g20 fail to guide the future. The future is beyond politics, because of the acceleration of life has eclipsed human force.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bifo 11[franco, university of bologna, professor of social history of communication at the academia di belle arti of Milan, after the future, pg on bottom]BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The vision of the future is cursed in …launched the cry: Immaginazione senza fill: WIRELESS IMAGINATION.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">48-52</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lets be clear -our argument isn’t that the sciences are bad—it’s simply that the idea of science as a single meta-theory that configures our way of knowing the world is dangerous and can’t answer the most important questions of life.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Oberheim 2k11[Eric. Dr. research associate at the institute for philosophy, chair for philosophy of science at the Humboldt-Universitat zu Berlin, Professor of Philosophy at UC Berkeley, The Tyranny of Science, {first published in Italian in 1996, translated and published in English in 2011} pg at bottom]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Just as Against Method is a …. some modern myths about science.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">xi-xii</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sykes, 2009 – not the awesome debate coach from north texas but a phd from hawaii (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online) BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In Virlio’s view, the war machine … “We must politicize speed. (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Your scenarios are not a science – it is symbolic exchange – makes economic collapse and transition wars from hegemony inevitable. Only the alternative moves away from necronomics and the politics of death.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bifo 11[franco, university of bologna, professor of social history of communication at the academia di belle arti of Milan, after the future, pg on bottom]BZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">More than ever, … fabric of language and imagination.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">141-147</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The alternative is to brake—academic discussions must slow down and critically investigate the politics of speed before we come to a decision. Your responsibility as an intellectual is to vote negative to foster democratic engagement and not rush to judgment</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Glezos, 2012 – Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Regina (Simon, “The Politics of Speed”, originally published through a dissertation to Johns Hopkins in 2009; however, it was republished through Routledge in 2012,)BWBZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">First of all, following from his … war and the (Globalitarian) state.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">CP</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">free market cp</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The United States federal government should </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">- removes barriers to private involvement in infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">- cease involvement in infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">- provide access to relevant information to private companies</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">- offer tax incentives for companies willing to increase transportation investment</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">CP Solves - Knowledge is fragmented and the attempted to use the government only lead to the oversimplification of an unknowable body of information </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Crowley, 1 (Brian, Montreal Economic Institute, Montreal Economic Institute Paper, “The Man Who Changed Everyone’s Life: The Ubiquitous Ideas of F. A. Hayek (Conclusion),” 4-16-2001, www.iedm.org/library/crowlerB_en.html, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The synoptic delusion TO THE MODERN MIND, OF … service of the people who need it? This casts economics in a new light, as the study of a massive coordination challenge.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Only the counterplan can solve</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Emmott, 3 (Bill, independent writer, speaker and consultant on international affairs, 20:21 Vision: Twentieth-Century Lessons for the Twenty-first Century, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Those points about science and religion are … paranoid profession. The hunt must go on.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">china request cp</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government should request the People’s Republic of China funds <PLAN> in the United States</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The counterplan solves 100% of the case and China says “Yes”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Richter 2011 – Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center, JD – University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow. “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, March 16, http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Many Americans might be surprised … outcome can be avoided.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We have a linear net benefit – every dollar spent by China on US Infrastructure decreases the risk of dollar dumping</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Reuters 2011 – largest news agency in Europe, (“China may channel reserves to U.S. infrastructure –minister”, Reuters, December 12, 2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/12/02/china-us-investment-idUSL4E7N224M20111202)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Dec 2 (Reuters) - China may channel …away from the dollar.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Chinese bond-selling results in global financial panic and crushes the US economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wharton 2009 – Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, (“Is the World Losing Faith in the U.S. Dollar?” 9/2/09, http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2332)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As the global economy appears … dollar-denominated reserves.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nc bonds nb</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The counterplan allows China to use its foreign reserves for productive economy building – absent the CP China has incentive to use reserves as a political weapon</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">McDonald, 11 – AP Business Writer, staff writer for the Boston Globe, (Joe, “Minister: China wants to invest in US roads, rails”, Boston Globe, New York Times Company, November 28, 2011, http://articles.boston.com/2011-12-02/business/30468761_1_clean-energy-chen-deming-global-economy)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China wants to convert some … stable and sound development,’’ Chen said.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China is willing and able to dump the dollar</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">CRS 2009 – Congressional Research Service, Wayne M. Morrison, specialist in Asian Trade and Finance, Marc Labonte, specialist in macroeconomic Policy, (“China’s Holdings of U.S. Securities: Implications for the U.S. Economy”, July 30, 2009, www.crs.gov)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Given its relatively low savings rate, the U.S. … dampen U.S. economic growth, all else equal. </span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nc china says yes</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China says yes – leaders want to reduce exposure to U.S. bond volatility – proves the link to the bonds net benefit</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">McDonald, 11 – AP Business Writer, staff writer for the Boston Globe, (Joe, “China ‘keen’ to invest in West’s infrastructure”, Boston Globe, New York Times Company, November 28, 2011, http://articles.boston.com/2011-11-28/business/30451187_1_investment-opportunities-china-investment-corp-cic/2)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China’s sovereign wealth fund …, offers the chance of a win-win solution for all,’’ he wrote.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Chinese and U.S. governments both say yes</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rapoza 2/14 – senior contributor to Forbes, (Kenneth, “To Rebuild America, Call On China?” Forbes, February 14, 2012, http://www.forbes.com/sites/kenrapoza/2012/02/14/to-rebuild-america-call-on-china/2/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China’s Vice President Xi … Obama for 8% unemployment.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nc ports</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The counterplan solves port infrastructure – China wants to invest in logistics and improvements</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Oreanda, 11 – largest news agency in eastern Russia, formerly government owned and operated news company, winner of the Kremlin Cup for outstanding journalism, (“CEO of COSCO Group Speaks at China-US Business Dialog”, Economic News, Information Agency Oreanda, August 35, 2011, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Beijing. OREANDA-NEWS . … JP Morgan, Acorn International, and AmCham-China.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. port funding streams are insufficient – China is comparatively better</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nagle, 11 – Kurt, President, American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA), Master’s degree in Economics and over 30 years experience in Washington, DC, related to seaports and international trade. US port-related infrastructure investments reap dividends, Port Technology International (originally was a feature by Kurt Nagle for Industry Today October 17, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Back in the US, public funding … raw materials onto ships heading to China.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nc mass transit</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The counterplan solves mass transit – China wants wide-ranging investment</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Walton, 3/8/12 - A.B. Economics/Accounting, Muhlenberg College, columnist whose articles frequently appear in the Washington Post, staff writer for Construction Digital, (John, “China Looking to Invest in U.S. Infrastructure”, Construction Digital, March 8, 2012, http://www.constructiondigital.com/under_construction/china-looking-to-invest-in-us-infrastructure)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As China continues to invest … becoming more common.</span>