[[toc]]
=Mayport= 
==1AC [Emory]== 
===Plan=== 
**The United States federal government should invest in transportation infrastructure at Mayport necessary for homeporting nuclear aircraft carriers.**

===Strategic Dispersal=== 

<span class="Underline">**Norfolk hosts tons of vulnerable cargo and there’s no defense to terrorist attacks**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kimberlin 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joanne, The Virginian-Pilot, “Millions of containers. Now, find the 'Boom Box.'”, February 5, http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box) </span>
<span class="Underline">They look harmless enough. And, … before it ever gets here. </span>

**Hamas would attack**
**VFC 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Virginia State Police Virginia Fusion Center, “Virginia Terrorism Threat Assessment Commonwealth of Virginia Department of State Police Virginia Fusion Center March 2009,” [[http://rawstory.com/images/other/vafusioncenterterrorassessment.pdf]], 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HAMAS was created in 1987 by … , Chesterfield County, and Falls Church. </span>

**Also, Radiological accidents are likely**
**NIRS 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nuclear Information and Resource Service, “The Yucca Mountain Dump Plan Would Launch Up to 334 Barges of Deadly High-Level Radioactive Waste Onto the James River,” Date is Date Last Mod, Jan 21, http://www.nirs.org/factsheets/vabargefactsheet92804.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As part of its plan … </span>__these barge shipments is increased__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Norfolk is key to the Atlantic Fleet**
**O’Rourke 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs at CRS, “ Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf, August 10, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then-Chief of Naval Operations (… CVNs </span><span class="Underline">should a catastrophic event occur. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>

<span class="Underline">**Carriers allow for rapid response that manages crisis**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Eaglan 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial,” July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For any U.S. president, </span>the <span class="Underline">aircraft </span>… deliver a psychological message of U.S. interest<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Nothing can replace supercarriers**
**Tebin****8/3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (Prokhor, RAS Institute of World Economy and International Relations, “Supercarriers – Washington’s last-ditch argument,” http://russiancouncil.ru/en/inner/?id_4=675)</span>
__As an alternative to the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the decommissioning of </span>__one U.S. supercarrier__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Atlantic Fleet maintains status quo Gulf presence**
<span class="Underline">**Ramsay 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Stuart Ramsay, Chief Correspondent, “Iran: US Carrier's Hornets Set To Sting”, http://news.sky.com/story/996109/iran-us-carriers-hornets-set-to-sting, 10/11/2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>missions from<span class="Underline"> the USS … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">busy posting for all involved. </span>

**__Perception__ and __Capability__ of response … presence Iran closes the Strait**
**Kagan 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Frederick W., Resident scholar and director of the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, “Strait Talk with Iran: The U.S. should make clear to Tehran that closing shipping lanes won't be tolerated”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">January 4, 2012, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104]</span>
__Iran's threat to close a vital … the real and dangerous provocation.__

**Iran’s strategy to close the Strait causes oil shocks and economic collapse**
**Isenberg 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, David, adjunct scholar with the Cato Institute, a US Navy veteran, and the author of the book, Shadow Force: Private Security Contractors in Iraq [“Iran well prepared for the worst,” January 31st, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/NA31Ak02.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the report published … Security, a Washington DC think-tank. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Wargames have already started—US resolve is key to avoid instability**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Erikson 1/8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Scott, policy analyst focused on myriad issues of national security including foreign terrorist organizations, law enforcement, and missile defense, Freelance—Heritage Foundation, The Daily Caller, The Hill, American Thinker, Breitbart, and Defense News, “Iran Uses Strait of Hormuz as Backdrop for Missile Tests”, [[http://blog.heritage.org/2013/01/08/iran-uses-strait-of-hormuz-as-backdrop-for-missile-tests/]], 2013]</span>
<span class="Underline">In yet another move that … among the region’s myriad adversaries. </span>

**The mere possibility of Iran Strait Closure causes oil shocks**
**Holmes 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, James, associate professor of strategy at the U.S. Naval War College [“Playing Poker in the Strait,” January 30th, [[http://the-diplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2012/01/30/playing-poker-in-the-strait/]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have to allow for … bay off the Kuwaiti coast. </span>

**The shock causes regional conflicts that escalate to global nuclear war**
**Qasem 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Islam Yasin Qasem, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Politics and Social Sciences at the University of Pompeu Fabra (UPF) in Barcelona, MA in International Affairs from Columbia, July 9, 2007, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” online: [[http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm]]]</span>
__Recognizing the strategic value of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of national interests </span>__are high__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**New studies prove a shock is the quickest route to economic collapse**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sandra </span>**Erwin 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, editor of National Defense Magazine, “30% Cut in U.S. Oil Imports Would Avert Future Catastrophe, Study Warns”, [[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=577]], 11-1</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unless the United States curtails … impact would be nearly zero.</span>

**Economic collapse causes war**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">First, on the systemic level, … considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**The US reacts to oil shocks with military action—carter doctrine forces more land wars**
**Klare 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire college and the author of resource wars and blood and oil. “Repudiate the Carter Doctrine” http://www.fpif.org/articles/repudiate_the_carter_doctrine. January 22, 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Twenty-nine years ago, president … without reliance on military intervention. </span>

**Hegemonic transition is happening now—Naval Presence prevents Land Power which is comparatively better—land wars cause precipitous power collapse**
**__Layne 12__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Christopher Layne, Chair in National Security and Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, “The End of Pax Americana: How Western Decline Became Inevitable”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2012/04/the-end-of-pax-americana-how-western-decline-became-inevitable/256388/?single_page=true, 4/26/12]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span><span class="Underline">the **concept relies on naval …**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> maintaining the country's social safety net.</span>

**Decline triggers __positional competition__ and war—Bargaining will become impossible** 
**Wohlforth 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/world_politics/v061/61.1.wohlforth.html#back|William C. Wohlforth]], Professor of government @ Dartmouth College, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” </span>__World____Politics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>__I question the dominant view … in security and__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/or </span>__prosperity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===Nuclear Energy=== 

<span class="Underline">**Navy has knowledge and experience in SMR—leverages resources best**</span>
**Robitaille 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [George E. Robitaille, Department of Army, “Small Modular Reactors: The Army’s Secure Source of Energy?”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA561802]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Section 332 of the FY2010 National … </span>leverage<span class="Underline"> this **knowledge and experience.** </span>

**Upgrades key to make Mayport __nuclear capable__ to meet __future demand__**
**O’Rourke 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs at CRS, “ Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf, August 10, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to homeporting CGs, … </span>**__nuclear propulsion plant maintenance facilities__**__.__

**Plan solves SMRs in the military—__doesn’t pick winners__**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Andres & Breetz 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Richard B, Professor of National Security Strategy at the National War College and a Senior Fellow and Energy and Environmental Security and Policy Chair in the Center for Strategic Research, Institute for National Strategic Studies, at the National Defense University and Hanna L, doctoral candidate in the Department of Political Science at The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, February, "Small Nuclear Reactors for Military Installations: Capabilities, Costs, and Technological Implications", www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/StrForum/SF-262.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus far, this paper has … the industry’s timeline and trajectory.</span>

**Nuclear small and medium reactors key to desalination**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Water scarcity is coming now—all statistics prove</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Fossil Fuels cannot be used in future desalination efforts—emission targets set by the IAEA</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Desalination tech has already been developed—it’s only a question of electricity source</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-In a crisis SMRs are given to developing countries because they can be used</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IAEA 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Economics of Nuclear Desalination: New Developments and Site Specific Studies”, July, [[http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/publications/PDF/te_1561_web.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Seventy percent of the planet … </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the use of nuclear energy.</span>//

**Water scarcity coming now—it's a __threat multiplier__ that enflames hotspots globally. Their defense is not predictive.**
**Dinar et al 10/18**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 SHLOMI DINAR is associate professor in the Department of Politics and International Relations and associate director of the School of International and Public Affairs at Florida International University. LUCIA DE STEFANO is associate professor at Complutense University of Madrid and researcher at the Water Observatory of the Botín Foundation. JAMES DUNCAN is consultant on natural resource governance and geography with the World Bank. KERSTIN STAHL is senior scientist at the Institute of Hydrology in the University of Freiburg. KENNETH M. STRZEPEK is research scientist with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change. AARON T. WOLF is a professor of geography in the College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences at Oregon State University, Foreign Affairs, October 18, 2012, "No Wars for Water", http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/138208/shlomi-dinar-lucia-de-stefano-james-duncan-kerstin-stahl-kenneth/no-wars-for-water?page=show</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In short, predictions of a Water … </span>__in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the world's </span>__volatile regions.__

**Capability asymmetry and desperation results in nuclear escalation.** 
**Zahoor 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Musharaf, Researcher at Department of Nuclear Politics – National Defense University, //Water Crisis can Trigger Nuclear War in South Asia//, http://www.siasat.pk)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Water is an ambient source, … be resolved through political will.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Indo-pak water war is likely now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Daly 12** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, chief analyst at the energy news site Oilprice.com. Dr. Daly received his Ph.D. in 1986 from the School of Slavonic and East European Studies, University of London, Is a Water War between India and Pakistan Imminent?, http://oilprice.com/Geopolitics/Asia/Pakistan-and-India-to-go-to-War-over-Water.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span><span class="Underline">peaceful and stable Pakistan … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Azad Kashmir and Northern Areas). </span>

<span class="Underline">**War goes nuclear**</span>
**Sayler 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Kelley, CSIS research assistant, MA Baylor, “Nuclear Stability in South Asia”, 201 ,http://csis.org/blog/nuclear-stability-south-asia</span>
__The convergence of a number of … destabilize an already tenuous relationship.__ 

**Indo-pak nuclear conflict causes global collapse**
**Robock and Toon 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado, received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine –http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf) </span>
__By deploying modern computers and … enough to kill robust species.__

==1AC [Ohio Valley]== 
===Inherency=== 

**First Norfolk is Vulnerable**

**Terrorist attack coming now**
VFC 9 (Virginia State Police Virginia Fusion Center, “Virginia Terrorism Threat Assessment Commonwealth of Virginia Department of State Police Virginia Fusion Center March 2009,” http://rawstory.com/images/other/vafusioncenterterrorassessment.pdf, 2009)
State government facilities include those … infiltration or pre-incident activity.

**An attack is likely and there’s no defense**
Kimberlin 12 (Joanne, The Virginian-Pilot, “Millions of containers. Now, find the 'Boom Box.'”, February 5, http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box)
They look harmless enough. And, … before it ever gets here.

**Also, Radiological accidents**
NIRS 8 (Nuclear Information and Resource Service, “The Yucca Mountain Dump Plan Would Launch Up to 334 Barges of Deadly High-Level Radioactive Waste Onto the James River,” Date is Date Last Mod, Jan 21, http://www.nirs.org/factsheets/vabargefactsheet92804.pdf)
As part of its plan … these barge shipments is increased.

**This means our Atlantic Naval Fleet vulnerable**
O’Rourke 8/10 [Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs at CRS, “ Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf, August 10, 2012]
Then-Chief of Naval Operations (… CVNs should a catastrophic event occur. 20

===Plan=== 
**Thus the plan—**
**The United States federal government should substantially fund development of Mayport transportation infrastructure necessary to sustain a home port for nuclear-powered aircraft carriers.**

===China=== 

**Advantage 1 is China**
**5th Fleet key to deter Chinese string of pearls**
Townshend 11—Ashley, Research Associate in the International Security Program at the Lowy Institute for International Policy, Real Clear World, "Few Reasons to Fear China's 'Pearls'", May 26, http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2011/05/26/few_reasons_to_fear_china_pearls_99534.html
What, then, would be the … on its Indian Ocean objectives.

**Chinese encroachment is on the brink—its either commercial or naval**
Mead 8/31 [Walter Russell Mead, James Clarke Chace Professor of Foreign Affairs and Humanities at Bard College and Editor-at-Large of The American Interest magazine, recognized as one of the country's leading students of American foreign policy, “China to Add Pakistan’s Gwadar Port to String of Pearls”, “China to Add Pakistan’s Gwadar Port to String of Pearls”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2012/08/31/china-to-add-pakistans-gwadar-port-to-string-of-pearls/]]</span>, 2012]
The port of Gwadar on … start ringing the alarm bells.

**String of Pearls causes Indian fears of Sino-Pakistani cooperation and there is no escalation control**
Sayler 11—Kelley, CSIS research assistant, MA Baylor, “Nuclear Stability in South Asia”, 201 ,http://csis.org/blog/nuclear-stability-south-asia
The convergence of a number of … destabilize an already tenuous relationship.

**Indo-pak conflict is bad**
Robock and Toon 10 - Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado, received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine –http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf)
By deploying modern computers and … enough to kill robust species.

**Deterrence doesn’t solve**
Vipin Narang 10 research fellow at Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and Ph.D candidate in the Department of Government at Harvard University, Posturing for Peace?, International Security, vol. 34, No. 3 (Winter 2009/10), pp. 38-78, http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1162/isec.2010.34.3.38
Of the three nuclear postures … accidental or unauthorized nuclear use.


===Iran=== 
**Advantage 2 is Iran**
**Norfolk based deployments are central in the Gulf effort**
Ramsay 10/11 [Stuart Ramsay, Chief Correspondent, “Iran: US Carrier's Hornets Set To Sting”, http://news.sky.com/story/996109/iran-us-carriers-hornets-set-to-sting, 2012]
The missions from the USS … busy posting for all involved.

**Perception and Capability of response is the only thing holding Iran back**
Kagan 12 [Frederick W., Resident scholar and director of the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, “Strait Talk with Iran: The U.S. should make clear to Tehran that closing shipping lanes won't be tolerated”
January 4, 2012, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104]
Iran's threat to close a vital … the real and dangerous provocation.

**The shock causes regional conflicts that escalate to global nuclear war**
Qasem 7 [Islam Yasin Qasem, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Politics and Social Sciences at the University of Pompeu Fabra (UPF) in Barcelona, MA in International Affairs from Columbia, July 9, 2007, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” online: http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm]
Recognizing the strategic value of … of national interests are high.

**New studies prove a shock is the quickest route to collapse**
Sandra Erwin 11 , editor of National Defense Magazine, “30% Cut in U.S. Oil Imports Would Avert Future Catastrophe, Study Warns”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=577]]</span>, 11-1
Unless the United States curtails … impact would be nearly zero.

**Collapse causes global instability**
Kemp 10 Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4
The second scenario, called Mayhem … -thirds of the planet’s population.

**Their defense doesn’t have the same statistical support**
Royal 10 [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
First, on the systemic level, … considered ancillary to those views.

===Intervention=== 


**Advantage 3 is Intervention**
**Every hotspot is at risk – global reach is key to prevent global nuclear escalation**
Munson 11 – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]
A decade of war has … same place, wherever that may be.

**Conventional capabilities are crucial**
Gerson 9 – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]
This article seeks to expand … for conventional aggression and coercion.

**The military is undergoing a fundamental transition to naval force and continued strength is key**
Kaplan 7 (Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, in Washington, D.C, “America’s Elegant Decline”, November, The Atlantic, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/11/america-8217-s-elegant-decline/6344/?single_page=true)
Are we prepared to fight … our elites appear blind [unaware].

**Atlantic Fleet weakness crushes naval credibility**
Cropsey 10 Seth, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, former Naval Officer and deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administration of Reagan and BushII, "The US Navy in Distress", Strategic Analysis, Vol. 34 No. 1, January, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Cropsey_US_Navy_In_Distress.pdf
American maritime strategy has played a … seapower surrendered slowly over decades.

**Effective carrier forces are key to diplomatic and military power—presence alone defuses conflicts**
Eaglan 8 (Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial,” July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)
For any U.S. president, the aircraft … deliver a psychological message of U.S. interest.

Conventional deterrence credibility is necessary to stop Russian expansionism
Parkovich 9 (Adviser to the International Commission on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations Task Force on US Nuclear Policy, “Extended Deterrence on the way to a nuclear free world” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, pg. www.icnnd.org/research/Perkovich _Deterrence.pdf)
The most credible and perhaps … deterrence during the Cold War.

**It solves conventional aggression**
Gerson 9 (specialist in military strategy and member of CNA’s Center for Strategic Studies, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/USAWC/Parameters/09autumn/gerson.pdf
In this context, conventional deterrence … for conventional aggression and coercion.

**Russian expansionism triggers multiple scenarios for extinction**
Blank 9 --- Stephen J. Blank, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March 2009. “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?”
Proliferators or nuclear states like … neighbors or their own people.



==1AC [Old]== 

===Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should invest in transportation infrastructure necessary to sustain a secure home port for nuclear-powered aircraft carriers at Naval Station Mayport.**

===Strategic Dispersal [Johns Creek, St. Marks]=== 

<span class="Underline">**First Norfolk is Vulnerable**</span>

**Terrorist attack coming now**
**VFC 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Virginia State Police Virginia Fusion Center, “Virginia Terrorism Threat Assessment Commonwealth of Virginia Department of State Police Virginia Fusion Center March 2009,” http://rawstory.com/images/other/vafusioncenterterrorassessment.pdf, 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">State government facilities include those … </span>__infiltration or pre-incident activity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**An attack is likely and would be unstoppable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kimberlin 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joanne, The Virginian-Pilot, “Millions of containers. Now, find the 'Boom Box.'”, February 5, http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box) </span>
<span class="Underline">They look harmless enough. And, … before it ever gets here. </span>

**This means our Atlantic Naval Fleet vulnerable**
**O’Rourke 8/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs at CRS, “ Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf, August 10, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then-Chief of Naval Operations (… CVNs </span><span class="Underline">should a catastrophic event occur. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>

====China==== 

<span class="Underline">**Advantage 1 is China**</span>
<span class="Underline">**5th Fleet key to deter Chinese string of pearls**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Townshend 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Ashley, Research Associate in the International Security Program at the Lowy Institute for International Policy, Real Clear World, "Few Reasons to Fear China's 'Pearls'", May 26, http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2011/05/26/few_reasons_to_fear_china_pearls_99534.html </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What, then, would be the … on its Indian Ocean objectives.</span>

<span class="Underline">**String of Pearls causes arms races and nuke war—boosts Indian fears of Sino-Pakistani cooperation** </span>
**Sayler 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Kelley, CSIS research assistant, MA Baylor, “Nuclear Stability in South Asia”, 201 ,http://csis.org/blog/nuclear-stability-south-asia</span>
__The convergence of a number of … destabilize an already tenuous relationship.__

**Indo-Pak nuclear war annihilates the globe—computer models prove**
**GSN 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php]</span>
<span class="Underline">Computer modeling suggests a nuclear </span>exchange … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">University of Colorado at Boulder.</span>

====Iran==== 
**Recent deployments based in Norfolk are key to the Gulf effort**
<span class="Underline">**Ramsay 10/11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Stuart Ramsay, Chief Correspondent, “Iran: US Carrier's Hornets Set To Sting”, http://news.sky.com/story/996109/iran-us-carriers-hornets-set-to-sting, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>missions from<span class="Underline"> the USS … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">busy posting for all involved. </span>

**Iran closes the strait absent perception and capability of naval response**
**Kagan 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Frederick W., Resident scholar and director of the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, “Strait Talk with Iran: The U.S. should make clear to Tehran that closing shipping lanes won't be tolerated”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">January 4, 2012, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104]</span>
__Iran's threat to close a vital … the real and dangerous provocation.__

<span class="Underline">**Now is uniquely probable and Hormuz is statistically the most important chokepoint**</span>
<span class="Underline">**RT 7/3**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Iran lawmakers prepare to close Hormuz Strait”, http://rt.com/news/iran-bill-hormuz-strait-218/, 2012]</span>
Iranian lawmakers<span class="Underline"> have </span>drafted a bill … __worldwide__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to the agency. </span>

**The shock causes regional conflicts that escalate to global nuclear war**
**Qasem 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Islam Yasin Qasem, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Politics and Social Sciences at the University of Pompeu Fabra (UPF) in Barcelona, MA in International Affairs from Columbia, July 9, 2007, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” online: http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm]</span>
__Recognizing the strategic value of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of national interests </span>__are high__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**The newest study proves a shock is the biggest, fastest route to collapse**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sandra </span>**Erwin 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, editor of National Defense Magazine, “30% Cut in U.S. Oil Imports Would Avert Future Catastrophe, Study Warns”, [[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=577]], 11-1</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unless the United States curtails … impact would be nearly zero.</span>

**Extinction**
**Kemp 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second scenario, called Mayhem … </span><span class="Underline">-thirds of </span>the planet’s population<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Their defense doesn’t have the same statistical support**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">First, on the systemic level, … considered ancillary to those views.</span>

====Heg==== 

<span class="Underline">**Advantage 3 is Intervention**</span>
**Every hotspot is at risk – global reach is key to prevent global nuclear escalation**
**Munson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A decade of war has … same place, wherever that may be.</span>

**American conventional capabilities are crucial**
**Gerson 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This article seeks to expand … for conventional aggression and coercion.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The military is undergoing a fundamental transition to naval force and continued strength is key – none of their generic heg defense applies**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kaplan 7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, in Washington, D.C, “America’s Elegant Decline”, November, The Atlantic, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/11/america-8217-s-elegant-decline/6344/?single_page=true)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Are we prepared to fight … </span>our elites appear<span class="Underline"> blind [</span>unaware<span class="Underline">]. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Atlantic Fleet weakness crushes hegemonic credibility—causes Mideast war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cropsey 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Seth, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, former Naval Officer and deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administration of Reagan and BushII, "The US Navy in Distress", Strategic Analysis, Vol. 34 No. 1, January, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Cropsey_US_Navy_In_Distress.pdf </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American </span><span class="Underline">maritime strategy has played a … seapower</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> surrendered slowly over decades. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Effective carrier forces are key to diplomatic and military power—presence alone defuses conflicts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Eaglan 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial,” July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For any U.S. president, </span>the <span class="Underline">aircraft </span>… deliver a psychological message of U.S. interest<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Turkish Nationalism causes transcaucus and Balkan war**
**Lesser 2K** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ian O., Senior Analyst and Research Manager – RAND, “The Future of Turkish-Western Relations: Toward A Strategic Plan”, Chapter Two CHANGES ON THE TURKISH DOMESTIC SCENE AND THEIR FOREIGN POLICY IMPLICATIONS, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1241/MR1241.chap2.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>__growing nationalism is likely … , multilateral approach__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to these areas. </span>

**Caucuses draw in major nuclear powers**
**Blank 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, Prof. Research – Strategic Studies Institute of US Army War College, Jane’s Intelligence Review, 5-1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many of the </span>__conditions for … here than almost everywhere else__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**So do the balkans**
**Paris 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roland, Assistant Professor of Political Science and International Affairs at University of Colorado, Political Science Quarterly, “Kosovo and the metaphor war”, 117: 3, Fall, Proquest)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At this early stage in … , before it is too late.</span>

===Strategic Dispersal [Hooch]=== 
**Ports remain vulnerable to attacks—Norfolk would be targeted**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">highly likely—even attacks against other infrastructure in Virginia will have ripple effects</span>
**VFC 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Virginia State Police Virginia Fusion Center, “Virginia Terrorism Threat Assessment Commonwealth of Virginia Department of State Police Virginia Fusion Center March 2009,” [[http://rawstory.com/images/other/vafusioncenterterrorassessment.pdf]], 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">State government facilities include those … </span>__infiltration or pre-incident activity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**An attack is likely and would be unstoppable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kimberlin 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joanne, The Virginian-Pilot, “Millions of containers. Now, find the 'Boom Box.'”, February 5, http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box) </span>
<span class="Underline">They look harmless enough. And, … before it ever gets here. </span>

**Second are Radiological accidents**
**NIRS 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nuclear Information and Resource Service, “The Yucca Mountain Dump Plan Would Launch Up to 334 Barges of Deadly High-Level Radioactive Waste Onto the James River,” Date is Date Last Mod, Jan 21, http://www.nirs.org/factsheets/vabargefactsheet92804.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As part of its plan … </span>__these barge shipments is increased__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**This means our Atlantic Naval Fleet vulnerable**
**O’Rourke 8/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs at CRS, “ Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]], August 10, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then-Chief of Naval Operations (… CVNs </span><span class="Underline">should a catastrophic event occur. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>

====Heg==== 
<span class="Underline">**Atlantic Fleet weakness crushes hegemonic credibility—causes Mideast war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cropsey 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Seth, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, former Naval Officer and deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administration of Reagan and BushII, "The US Navy in Distress", Strategic Analysis, Vol. 34 No. 1, January, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Cropsey_US_Navy_In_Distress.pdf </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American </span><span class="Underline">maritime strategy has played a … seapower</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> surrendered slowly over decades. </span>

**Every hotspot is at risk – global reach is key to prevent global nuclear escalation**
**Munson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A decade of war has … same place, wherever that may be.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Effective carrier forces are key to diplomatic and military power—presence alone defuses conflicts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Eaglan 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial,” July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For any U.S. president, </span>the <span class="Underline">aircraft </span>… deliver a psychological message of U.S. interest<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**American conventional capabilities are crucial**
**Gerson 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This article seeks to expand … for conventional aggression and coercion.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Military Power** **is on the brink of collapse – the military is undergoing a fundamental transition to a naval force and continued strength is key – none of their generic heg defense applies**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kaplan 7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, in Washington, D.C, “America’s Elegant Decline”, November, The Atlantic, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/11/america-8217-s-elegant-decline/6344/?single_page=true)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Are we prepared to fight … </span>our elites appear<span class="Underline"> blind [</span>unaware<span class="Underline">]. </span>

**Hegemony is impossible but American military power is key to prevent global chaos and extinction – there’s no alternative**
**Brzezinski 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Zbigniew Brzezinski, CSIS counselor and trustee and cochair of the CSIS Advisory Board, Robert E. Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies @ Johns Hopkins University, cochair of the American Committee for Peace in the Caucasus and a member of the International Advisory Board of the Atlantic Council, recipient of numerous honors and awards. “After America”. Foreign Policy, Jan/Feb 2012. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?page=0,1]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not so long ago, </span>__a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> high-… a dangerous slide into global turmoil.</span>

====<span class="Underline">China</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**5th Fleet key to deter Chinese string of pearls**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Townshend 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Ashley, Research Associate in the International Security Program at the Lowy Institute for International Policy, Real Clear World, "Few Reasons to Fear China's 'Pearls'", May 26, http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2011/05/26/few_reasons_to_fear_china_pearls_99534.html </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What, then, would be the … on its Indian Ocean objectives.</span>

<span class="Underline">**String of Pearls causes arms races and nuke war—boosts Indian fears of Sino-Pakistani cooperation** </span>
**Sayler 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Kelley, CSIS research assistant, MA Baylor, “Nuclear Stability in South Asia”, 201 ,http://csis.org/blog/nuclear-stability-south-asia</span>
__The convergence of a number of … destabilize an already tenuous relationship.__

**Indo-Pak nuclear war annihilates the globe—computer models prove**
**GSN 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php]</span>
<span class="Underline">Computer modeling suggests a nuclear </span>exchange … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">University of Colorado at Boulder.</span>


===Strategic Dispersal [Wake Forest]=== 

<span class="Underline">**First is Strategic Dispersal**</span>
**Nuclear terrorism is coming- all obstacles can be overcome**
<span class="Heading2Char">Bunn et al </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">May</span><span class="Heading2Char">, 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism, Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Colonel Yuri Morozov Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy. Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf]])</span>
__Nuclear terrorism is a real and … is as strong as ever.__

**Ports remain vulnerable to attacks—Norfolk would be targeted**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">highly likely—even attacks against other infrastructure in Virginia will have ripple effects</span>
**VFC 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Virginia State Police Virginia Fusion Center, “Virginia Terrorism Threat Assessment Commonwealth of Virginia Department of State Police Virginia Fusion Center March 2009,” [[http://rawstory.com/images/other/vafusioncenterterrorassessment.pdf]], 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">State government facilities include those … </span>__infiltration or pre-incident activity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Specifically, Hamas will attack**
**VFC 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Virginia State Police Virginia Fusion Center, “Virginia Terrorism Threat Assessment Commonwealth of Virginia Department of State Police Virginia Fusion Center March 2009,” [[http://rawstory.com/images/other/vafusioncenterterrorassessment.pdf]], 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HAMAS was created in 1987 by … , Chesterfield County, and Falls Church. </span>

**Second are Radiological accidents**
**NIRS 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nuclear Information and Resource Service, “The Yucca Mountain Dump Plan Would Launch Up to 334 Barges of Deadly High-Level Radioactive Waste Onto the James River,” Date is Date Last Mod, Jan 21, http://www.nirs.org/factsheets/vabargefactsheet92804.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As part of its plan … </span>__these barge shipments is increased__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Norfolk is high-value but lacks prioritization**
**O’Rourke 8/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs at CRS, “ Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]], August 10, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Port Vulnerability A fifth issue that … environmental laws, regulations, and policies. </span>

**This means our Atlantic Naval Fleet vulnerable**
**O’Rourke 8/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs at CRS, “ Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]], August 10, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then-Chief of Naval Operations (… CVNs </span><span class="Underline">should a catastrophic event occur. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>

====<span class="Underline">**China**</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**5th Fleet key to deter Chinese string of pearls**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Townshend 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Ashley, Research Associate in the International Security Program at the Lowy Institute for International Policy, Real Clear World, "Few Reasons to Fear China's 'Pearls'", May 26, http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2011/05/26/few_reasons_to_fear_china_pearls_99534.html </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What, then, would be the … on its Indian Ocean objectives.</span>

<span class="Underline">**String of Pearls causes arms races and nuke war—boosts Indian fears of Pakistani and Chinese cooperation** </span>
**Sayler 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Kelley, CSIS research assistant, MA Baylor, “Nuclear Stability in South Asia”, 201 ,http://csis.org/blog/nuclear-stability-south-asia</span>
__The convergence of a number of … destabilize an already tenuous relationship.__

**Indo-Pak nuclear war annihilates the globe—computer models prove**
**GSN 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php]</span>
<span class="Underline">Computer modeling suggests a nuclear </span>exchange … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">University of Colorado at Boulder.</span>

====<span class="Underline">**Iran**</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Iran will close the Strait of Hormuz—it is statistically the most important chokepoint**</span>
<span class="Underline">**RT 7/3**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Iran lawmakers prepare to close Hormuz Strait”, [[http://rt.com/news/iran-bill-hormuz-strait-218/]], 2012]</span>
Iranian lawmakers<span class="Underline"> have </span>drafted a bill … __worldwide__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to the agency. </span>

**The shock causes regional conflicts that escalate to global nuclear war**
**Qasem 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Islam Yasin Qasem, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Politics and Social Sciences at the University of Pompeu Fabra (UPF) in Barcelona, MA in International Affairs from Columbia, July 9, 2007, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” online: [[http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm]]]</span>
__Recognizing the strategic value of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of national interests </span>__are high__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Perception and capability of rapid response is key**
**Kagan 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Frederick W., Resident scholar and director of the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, “Strait Talk with Iran: The U.S. should make clear to Tehran that closing shipping lanes won't be tolerated”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">January 4, 2012, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104]]]</span>
__Iran's threat to close a vital … the real and dangerous provocation.__

**Global economic crisis causes war—__strong__ statistical support**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of … here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

===Surge [Wake Forest]=== 

**Contention 2 is the Surge**
**American conventional capabilities are crucial**
**Gerson 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This article seeks to expand … for conventional aggression and coercion.</span>

**Every hotspot is at risk – global reach is key to prevent global nuclear escalation**
**Munson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A decade of war has … same place, wherever that may be.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Effective carrier forces are key to diplomatic and military power—presence alone defuses conflicts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Eaglan 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial,” July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For any U.S. president, </span>the <span class="Underline">aircraft </span>… deliver a psychological message of U.S. interest<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This is only possible with Surge Capacity**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Global Security 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Fleet Response Plan,” May 7, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/frp.htm)</span>
The Fleet Response Plan<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, adopted … </span>approach to operations and maintenance<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Mayport is critical to the Surge**</span>
<span class="Underline">**1. Deployment speed, fleet redundancy, and operational flexibility**</span>
<span class="Underline">**GAO 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Defense Infrastructure Opportunities Exist to Improve the Navy’s Basing Decision Process and DOD Oversight, May, http://www.gao.gov/assets/310/304353.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Navy officials, the … </span><span class="Underline">, and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> • </span>strategic and operational flexibility<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**2. Training and Homeporting**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NAVFAC 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Naval Facilities Engineering Command, NAVFAC Southeast, “Final EIS for the proposed homeporting of additional surface ships at Naval Station Mayport, FL Vol I: Final Environmental Impact Statement,” November, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ada491893)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The purpose of the proposed … </span><span class="Underline">time of local operating areas</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==2AC Case== 
===AT—Bahrain Kickout=== 
**5th Fleet would move to bases in Qatar or UAE – this solves all their geographical proximity internal links**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span>**Glaser**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, reporter for antiwar.com </span>**6/20**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, “US navy’s fifth fleet could abandon Bahrain,” http://inthesenewtimes.com/2011/07/21/us-navy%E2%80%99s-fifth-fleet-could-abandon-bahrain/</span>
__The U.S. Navy is considering moving …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">40 vessels and close to 30,000 personnel.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Zero chance violence will target US base and opposition leaders really want us to stay**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hokayem 10/19/11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Bahrain-based Middle East analyst for the International Institute for Strategic Studies. [Emile Hokayem, “U.S. Has Few Options to Curb Crackdown in Bahrain,” The Atlantic, Oct 19 2011, 6:03 AM ET, pg. [[http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/10/us-has-few-options-to-curb-crackdown-in-bahrain/246942/]]]</span>
<span class="Underline">One idea for U.S. action that's … </span>leave, with<span class="Underline"> the prospect of </span>greater oppression<span class="Underline">.</span>

**5th Fleet wont move now**
**Huffington Post 7/21**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2011, “Navy Staying in Bahrain, State Department Says,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/07/21/navy-bahrain-state-department_n_906193.html</span>
__American officials are denying press … a new home for the fleet__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===AT—No Terror=== 
**Terrorists are fanatics – new terrorism will be apocalyptic not political**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter </span>**Laqueur, ‘3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – historian, has taught at Brandeis University, Georgetown, Harvard, University of Chicago, Tel Aviv and John Hopkins university; expert in terrorism and one of the founders of its study [No end to war: terrorism in the twenty-first century. Google Books]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It was only to be … on society could become reality.</span>

===AT—Fifth Fleet Bad [Jones]=== 

<span class="Underline">**The only warrant in Jones is Saudi emboldening—but withdrawal causes worse brutality** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Trombly 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Daniel, GWU International Affairs student, "The unconvincing case against the Fifth Fleet", June 11, Slouching Towards Columbia, http://slouchingcolumbia.wordpress.com/2011/06/11/the-unconvincing-case-against-the-5th-fleet/ </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First off, the US does … </span>is<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, generally,</span>how offshore balancing works<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

===AT—Iran Won’t Close Strait=== 

**Support for shutting down the strait of Hormuz is increasing now—the Navy is our only protection**
**Reuters 7/20**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“More than half Iran parliament backs Hormuz closure bill”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/07/20/iran-hormuz-idUSL6E8IKAI220120720]], 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lawmaker Javad Karimi </span>__Qodoosi said 150 …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">passes. Qodoosi dismissed this obstacle.</span>

===AT—Amphibs=== 
**Amphibs can’t replace supercarriers – size, range, and autonomy problems**
**Tebin****8/3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (Prokhor, RAS Institute of World Economy and International Relations, “Supercarriers – Washington’s last-ditch argument,” http://russiancouncil.ru/en/inner/?id_4=675)</span>
__As an alternative to the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the decommissioning of </span>__one U.S. supercarrier__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Amphibious assaults are obsolete –**
**a) Anti-ship missiles**
**Turner, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew M. Turner, Major, USMC, “AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT IN THE 21 ST CENTURY: ARE THE COSTS AND RISKS TOO HIGH?” Naval War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA546082]] Accessed 7/26/12 BJM</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ANTI-SHIP MISSILES </span>__The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> French … </span>__relevant__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the 21 st century. </span>

**b) Naval Mines**
**Turner, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew M. Turner, Major, USMC, “AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT IN THE 21 ST CENTURY: ARE THE COSTS AND RISKS TOO HIGH?” Naval War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA546082]] Accessed 7/26/12 BJM</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NAVAL MINES In contrast to … public’s support for a military operation. </span>

===AT—Readiness Alt Causes=== 
**The Navy is effective**
**Broach****8/16**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (Sophie, Staff Writer, “U.S. Navy Still A Power On The World's Oceans,” http://www.toledoblade.com/local/2012/08/16/US-Navy-still-a-power-on-the-world-oceans.html)</span>
__The U.S. Navy reigns supreme over …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">targets can a single airplane strike." </span>

===AT—Haddick=== 
<span class="Underline">**Haddick is wrong—oversimplifies Carrier power and fails to address bomber weaknesses**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Exum 9/3**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Andrew Exum, Pen Name Abu Muqawama (verification-http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Exum), American scholar of the Middle East, a Fellow of the Center for a New American Security, participated in General Stanley McChrystal's review of the American strategy in Afghanistan, Center for New American Security, think tank specialized in National Security issues, “Twilight of the Carriers?”, [[http://www.cnas.org/blogs/abumuqawama]], 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span>Haddick<span class="Underline"> has a provocative post</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at Foreign Policy </span><span class="Underline">… if increasingly circumscribed, </span>role well into this century<span class="Underline">. </span>

===AT—Carrier Attacks=== 
**No carrier attack—Tracking and layered defenses**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thompson 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Loren, Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates, a for-profit consultancy. Prior to holding his present positions, he was Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and taught graduate-level courses in strategy, technology and media affairs at Georgetown. He has also taught at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. Mr. Thompson holds doctoral and masters degrees in government from Georgetown University and a bachelor of science degree in political science from Northeastern University, “AIRCRAFT CARRIER (IN)VULNERABILITY: What It Takes To Successfully Attack an American Aircraft Carrier”, [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/library/resources/documents/Defense/aircraft-carrier-invulnerability.pdf]])</span>

<span class="Underline">The first step in attacking a … </span>the threat<span class="Underline"> posed by adversaries.</span>

==Politics Link Turns== 
<span class="Underline">**Rubio, Nelson and Crenshaw support the plan**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Vergakis** **11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Staff writer for The Associated Press (Brock, “Fla. lawmakers want carrier move expedited,” Tuesday Apr 5, 2011, http://www.navytimes.com/news/2011/04/ap-navy-mayport-carrier-move-040511/?sms_ss=blogger&at_xt=4d9be0e5379584b0%2C0)#SPS </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NORFOLK, Va. — </span>__Florida lawmakers want the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and congressional members,” he said.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Rubio is key to the agenda**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Caputo 12** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marc, Staff writer at The Miami Herald, “Sen. Marco Rubio's foreign policy work is earning respect in Congress,” 06.04.12, http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/06/04/v-fullstory/2831823/sen-marco-rubios-foreign-policy.html#storylink=cpy)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marco Rubio had just stepped … any sign that it’s pressure.”</span>

Plan is popular in the House and Crenshaw pushes the plan
**FCN 6/14**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (House Passes Bill Including Mayport Carrier Money, http://www.firstcoastnews.com/news/article/207690/0/House-Passes-Bill-Including-Mayport-Carrier-Money)</span>
__A bill further funding the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">wharf and controlled industrial facility.</span>

<span class="Underline">Crenshaw is key to the Agenda</span>
<span class="Underline">**Friedland 1** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Times-Union staff write (Bruce, “Crenshaw plays a new game,” April 6, 2001, http://jacksonville.com/tu-online/stories/040601/met_5844798.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Winning praise </span>__Crenshaw has a presence, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a bright, articulate and humorous colleague." </span>

Winners Win
**Green****10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [professor of political science at Hofstra University, David Michael Green, 6/11/10, "The Do-Nothing 44th President ", http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, </span>__there is a continuously evolving …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is precisely what </span>__they did__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=<span class="Underline">Space Guard</span>= 
==1AC== 
===Plan=== 
TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially invest in Space Guard transportation infrastructure in the United States.

===Spacemil [Ohio Valley]=== 
Space is the place—everything is dual use and escalation is uniquely likely
Faith 11/7 [Ryan Faith, World Affairs, Research Analyst for the Space Foundation, “The Future of Space: Trouble on the Final Frontier”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/layout/set/print/content/view/full/73?lng=en&id=154495]]</span>, 2012]
On Earth, this logic would eventually lead to … 2009, are forcing the development of new thinking about space.

The brink is now—China is advancing ASATs despite treaties. Only an extension of Obama’s conciliatory policy can solve
Gertz 10/16 [Bill Gertz, Senior Editor, Washington Times, Fantastic - exposed Russian intelligence operations in the Balkans, was threatened to have a cruise missile fired at his desk after he wrote a column critical of the CIA’s analysis of China, China’s communist government criticized him for news reports exposing China’s weapons and missile sales to rogues states, Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld once told him: “You are drilling holes in the Pentagon and sucking out information.”, “China to Shoot at High Frontier”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://freebeacon.com/china-to-shoot-at-high-frontier/]]</span>, 2012]
China’s military is set to conduct a test of … basis for the SC-19 ASAT demonstrated successfully in January 2007,” Fisher said.

Escalation control and deterrence don’t apply to space
Krepon & Clary 4 [Michael Krepon Professor of politics @ University of Virginia & Research Assistant for the Weaponization of Space Project @ Stimson Center (Director of the Space Security Project @ Stimson Center & President/CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center (89-00) & Christopher Clary, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space, Henry L. Stimson Center, 2004]
The inherent escalatory potential of satellite warfare between the United States and a major power such as China is exposed by such anodyne calculations. Any analysis of this scenario for preemptive attacks … than in dominance and compellance.

However, this is not China bellicosity but action-reaction planning in a security dilemma
Zhang 11 [Baohui, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship Author(s): Baohui Zhang Source: Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332 Published by: University of California Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311.]
China’s military space program and … of action-reaction space planning and/or activity.”6

This action-reaction planning will escalate to space and ground warfare
Hitchens 8 (Theresa, president of the Center for Defense Information, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span>)
Perhaps of even greater concern is …The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.

Cooperation curbs US threat perceptions over a rising china – solves conflict
Machida 10 [Satoshi, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Richmond, U.S. Soft Power and the “China Threat”: Multilevel Analyses, Asian Politics & Policy—Volume 2, Number 3—Pages 351–370]
Since the end of the Cold War, the international system …American soft power has to carry conciliatory messages.

The US signed onto the code of conduct but it will be unverifiable without the aff—nonmilitary SSA is critical
Kueter 12 [Jeff Kueter, President, George C. Marshall Institute, “Do We Need a Code of Conduct for Space? Considering Recent Developments in the Effort to Change Behavior in Space”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/1060.pdf]]</span>, February 13, 2/13/2012]
In the absence of a competing framework, the EU text … may generate more, rather than less, tension in space.

Code of conducts will inevitably constrain US abilities or misperception is inevitable
Taverney 12 [Thomas D. Taverney, Mr. Thomas “Tav” Taverney is a Senior Vice President with SAIC. During his career he has been a true citizen soldier, serving both the Air Force and the civilian aerospace industry. Tav is a 1968 graduate of the Air Force Academy and has a Masters of Science degree from USC. He achieved the rank of Major General, and the final assignment of his Air Force career was as Vice Commander of Air Force Space Command. He has extensive engineering design and development expertise including direct program management of numerous space systems developments, chief engineer/scientist responsibilities, and general management of large organizations. In his reserve career he worked in space systems acquisition, on-orbit satellite operations, space support to the AOR, and launch operations., “Working towards a space code of conduct”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2066/1]]</span>, April 16, 2012]
Of course, responding to this query with a loud “no” … capabilities in the event of a serious dispute.

Military SSA makes the code of conduct a hollow statement
Chow 11 [Tiffany, Writer for Secure World Foundation, a private operating foundation that promotes cooperative solutions for space sustainability and the peaceful uses of space, “Space Situational Awareness Sharing Program: An SWF Issue Brief”, http://swfound.org/media/3584/ssa_sharing_program_issue_brief_nov2011.pdf]
Recent announcements and policies in … and widely accessible SSA data and information.

The plan reverses Reactionary policy—commitment to non-military action is key
Kueter 12 [Jeff Kueter, President, George C. Marshall Institute, “Do We Need a Code of Conduct for Space? Considering Recent Developments in the Effort to Change Behavior in Space”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/1060.pdf]]</span>, February 13, 2/13/2012]
Lastly, if the U.S. is true to its … for space will have changed very little.

Only the aff solves
Bennett 11 [James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” Winter Issue, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]]</span>, 11/5/11 (Last Modified Date)]
3. New responsibilities. In addition to these … Guard’s responsibility for hazards to navigation.

DoD efforts will always fail
GAO 11 [United States Government Accountability Office, May 2011. SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]
Despite recent investments, existing SSA … reduce risk to meeting cost, schedule and performance goals.

The reason it fails is SSA’s DOD status
Bennett 10 [James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]
Recent events have underscored the reality that current … goal of becoming Commandant of the Space Guard.

===Aerospace [Ohio Valley]=== 
**Apollo Advantage**

<span class="Heading2Char">Space Guard refocuses launch infrastructure</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">E-E 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( Engineering Ethics, Written by a consulting engineer and who teaches engineering courses at Texas State University; citing James C. Bennett, "From NASA to USSG: Fixing the U. S. Space Programs", 6/20/11, </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> engineeringethicsblog.blogspot.com/2011/06/from-nasa-to-ussg-fixing-u-s-space.htmlghs-avi)</span>
__The domination by NASA of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">do the right thing about it.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Independently it attracts new capital</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cleave 09</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Dr. William R. Van Cleave Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, “Report Independent Working Group on Missile Defense,the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century”, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, p. 39-40 http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">One effect of the 9/11 terror … engineers in the aerospace sector. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Uncertainty, mistrust and lack of launch capacity will decimate commercial space**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ben-Ari et al 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Guy Ben-Ari, Senior Fellow at CSIS, deputy director and senior fellow with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS), Brian Green (director of strategic force assessments at Systems Planning and Analysis), Joshua Hartman (s a Senior Fellow with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program), Gary Powell (Senior Associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS), Stephanie Sanok (Senior fellow at CSIS), Tara Callahan, Lindsey Ohmit, Thomas Patterson, Gregory Sanders, CSIS, July 2010, "National Security and the Commercial Space Sector", accessed July 27, 2012, http://csis.org/files/publication/100726_Berteau_CommcialSpace_WEB.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C. 1. </span>Lack of<span class="Underline"> reliable </span>access<span class="Underline"> … some of these </span>problems difficult<span class="Underline">. </span>

**Launch capabilities are dependent and are prone to economic coercion—this undermines economic leadership**
**Burton****7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Lt Col. USAF [“GLOBALIZED SPACELIFT: A THREAT TO ASSURED ACCESS”, [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_49ad2600-7fa9-4b95-87f2-2a2376985905/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]]</span>
__Control of the space launch … government launch services as well__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**The advantage is reverse causal—stem investment maintains comparative advantage**
**Galama & Hosek 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Management scientist Corporation & Director of the Forces and Resources Policy Center of the National Defense Research Institute Corporation [Titus Galama (Ph.D. in physics from the U of Amsterdam) & James Hosek (Ph.D. in economics from the U of Chicago.), U.S. Competitiveness in Science and Technology, 2008]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Invention and Innovation:While nations … </span>**__on which it earns royalties__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Economic leadership is key to facilitate interdependence—the alternative is conflict**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">O'Connor 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is an American sociologist and economist. He is currently an Emeritus Professor of Sociology and Economics at the University of California , “Economic Rise of the East” November 26, 2008 http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/economic-rise-east</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In its latest report entitled … </span><span class="underline0">to address this is now</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**This is key to cooperative problem solving**
**Deudney & Ikenberry 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This bleak outlook is based … </span>__of international integration and cooperation.__

**Hegemony is __unsustainable__ without economic … . Regional balancing makes war inevitable**
**White 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of Strategic Studies @ Australian National University [Hugh White (Visiting Fellow @ the Lowy Institute), “Conflict in Asia 'Why War in Asia Remains Thinkable'” The International Institute for Strategic Studies, Conference 2-4 June 2008 pg. http://tiny.cc/53rus]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We face questions about Asia’s … make war a lot more thinkable. </span>

**Decline leads to power transitions. __…__** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the views of others. Pg. 54-56</span>**

**Decline triggers __positional competition__ and … __security and__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/or </span>__prosperity__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Pg. 33-35//1ac</span>**

**Our form of power is peaceful and cooperative**
**Logsdon 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. John M. Logsdon (Research professor of Political Science and International Affairs @ George Washington University), Director of the Space Policy Institute @ George Washington University “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, March 2007, Volume 3 Number 2, pg. [[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/DrLogsdon_HF_Article.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This question has been eloquently … </span>__pursue conflict in other arenas__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Griffin went even further in his analysis: “Imagine if you will a world of some future time—whether it be 2020 or 2040 or whenever—when some other nations or alliances are capable of reaching and exploring the Moon, or voyaging to Mars, and the United States cannot and does not. Is it even conceivable that in such a world America would still be regarded as a leader among nations, never mind the leader?” He asked “Are we willing to accept those consequences?”12</span>
__These remarks__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have been quoted … </span>__U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__as a great country__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Pg. 13 </span>

Decline means the US will … **__prior to the possible crossover__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.19 pg. 647-650</span>

===China=== 

China is NOT militarizing against us—our relationship is based on the security dilemma
Zhang 11 [Baohui, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship Author(s): Baohui Zhang Source: Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332 Published by: University of California Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311 .]
China’s military space program and … space planning and/or activity.”6

The Brink is now—PLA will push militarization
BBC 12 (British Broadcasting Company, “How China is advancing its military reach,” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-16588557)
While much attention has been … generation leadership handover this year.

This action-reaction planning will escalate to space warfare
Hitchens 8 (Theresa, president of the Center for Defense Information, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span>)
Perhaps of even greater concern … would be unacceptable to all.

Escalation control and deterrence don’t apply to space
Krepon & Clary 4 [Michael Krepon Professor of politics @ University of Virginia & Research Assistant for the Weaponization of Space Project @ Stimson Center (Director of the Space Security Project @ Stimson Center & President/CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center (89-00) & Christopher Clary, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space, Henry L. Stimson Center, 2004]
The inherent escalatory potential of … than in dominance and compellance.

The US signed onto the EU code of conduct but it will be unverifiable without the aff—nonmilitary SSA action is critical
Kueter 12 [Jeff Kueter, President, George C. Marshall Institute, “Do We Need a Code of Conduct for Space? Considering Recent Developments in the Effort to Change Behavior in Space”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/1060.pdf]]</span>, February 13, 2/13/2012] SV
In the absence of a competing … than less, tension in space.


Military SSA makes the code of conduct a hollow statement
Chow 11 [Tiffany, Writer for Secure World Foundation, a private operating foundation that promotes cooperative solutions for space sustainability and the peaceful uses of space, “Space Situational Awareness Sharing Program: An SWF Issue Brief”, http://swfound.org/media/3584/ssa_sharing_program_issue_brief_nov2011.pdf]
Recent announcements and policies in … accessible SSA data and information.

Code of conducts will inevitably constrain US abilities or misperception is inevitable
Taverney 12 [Thomas D. Taverney, Mr. Thomas “Tav” Taverney is a Senior Vice President with SAIC. During his career he has been a true citizen soldier, serving both the Air Force and the civilian aerospace industry. Tav is a 1968 graduate of the Air Force Academy and has a Masters of Science degree from USC. He achieved the rank of Major General, and the final assignment of his Air Force career was as Vice Commander of Air Force Space Command. He has extensive engineering design and development expertise including direct program management of numerous space systems developments, chief engineer/scientist responsibilities, and general management of large organizations. In his reserve career he worked in space systems acquisition, on-orbit satellite operations, space support to the AOR, and launch operations., “Working towards a space code of conduct”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2066/1]]</span>, April 16, 2012] SV
Of course, responding to this … the event of a serious dispute.

The plan reverses Reactionary policy—commitment to non-military action is key
Kueter 12 [Jeff Kueter, President, George C. Marshall Institute, “Do We Need a Code of Conduct for Space? Considering Recent Developments in the Effort to Change Behavior in Space”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/1060.pdf]]</span>, February 13, 2/13/2012] SV
Lastly, if the U.S. is true … will have changed very little.

DoD efforts will always fail
GAO 11 [United States Government Accountability Office, May 2011. SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]
Despite recent investments, existing SSA … meeting cost, schedule and performance goals.

Only the aff solves
Bennett 11 [James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” Winter Issue, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]]</span>, 11/5/11 (Last Modified Date)]
3. New responsibilities. In addition … search, rescue, and recovery operations.

===Radio=== 
Radio Interference will reach a tipping Point
Lynn 2k11 (William, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense and senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment”,
is also cluttered by electronic signals Washington Quarterly 34:3 pp. 7-16, pg online)
Space is also cluttered by … longer seems quite so limitless.

The Brink is Now—Deconfliction is possible but lack of it will overload frequencies
Tjelta and Struzak 11 (2011, Terje Tjelta, PhD, Senior Research Scientist in Telenor Corporate Development, former researcher for the International Telecommunications Union, and Ryszard Strużak, PhD, Full University Professor, University of Technology at Warsaw, Department of Electronics and Telecommunications, IEEE Life Fellow, Academician International Telecommunication Academy, “Physical, technical, practical, economical, and regulatory aspects of spectrum management,” National Institute of Telecommunications, Wrocław, Poland, http://ursigass2011.org/abstracts/ursi/E05-1.pdf)
Global radio regulations remain very … guarantee satisfactory quality of experiences.

JSpoc fails at Radio Deconfliction—nonmilitary SSA is key
Morring 12 [Frank Morring, Aviation Weekly, “USAF Notices Unreliable on Orbital Risks,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/awx/2012/02/24/awx_02_24_2012_p0-429306.xml&headline=USAF%20Notices%20Unreliable%20on%20Orbital%20Risks]]</span>, Feb 24, 2012] SV
The spacecraft-conjunction advisories put … for protecting “sensitive” SSA info.

Interference disrupts Radio Astronomy
Goddard et al 4 (Jan. 2004, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Global Science Forum, members include Michael Goddard (Chair), Spectrum Policy Director UK Radiocommunications Agency, Makoto Inoue, Director, Nobeyama Radio Observatory National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Paul A. Vanden Bout, Senior Scientist and former Director U.S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory, William Hatch (retired), Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management National Telecommunications & Information Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce “Report of the Task Force on Radio Astronomy and the Radio Spectrum,” http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf)
The science of radio astronomy … currently allocated to radio astronomy.

Most recent surveys prove Radar is critical to Asteroid Detection
Redd 11 [Nola Taylor Redd, “NASA Tracking Huge Asteroid with Radar for Tuesday Encounter,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/13533-huge-asteroid-2005-yu55-radar-tracking.html]]</span>, 11/7/2011] SV
A quarter-mile wide asteroid … is used only slightly less.

New Research proves a strike is likely
Easterbrook 8 (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids]]</span>)
These standard assumptions—that remaining … is riding on the plane.”

Strikes cause Extinction
Marusek 2k7 (James, nuclear physicist and engineer, formerly with the US Navy, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf)
A deep impact produces two … with regularity in geological time. 5

Nothing can outweigh extinction even if the risk is miniscule
Matheny 2k7 (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)
We may be poorly equipped … the costs of mitigating them.20

Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close
Chapman 2k4 (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)
I have argued [59] that impacts … traces in the fossil record.

Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability
Posner 4 (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)
Even if our insouciant reaction … otherwise to reduce the risk.


===Europe=== 

DoD policy damages cooperation over GMES
Gleason 10 [Lt. Col Michael, PhD in IR and is the core division chief of Department of Political Science at US Air Force Academy and associate director and founding team member of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, High Frontier: “Shaping the Future with a New Space Power: Now is the Time” pg 43, Frontier Volume 6, No. 2, pg]
As well, the need for … secrecy than the US does.

Monopoly perception prevents cooperation
Roberts 5 [Maj. Tommy, MS from George Washington and BS from USAFA and is Space and Missile Force Programmer, Directorate of Plans and Programs, Headquarters Air Force, “Space Situation Awareness: How Much Should the US Share?” High Frontier, Volume 1, Number 3, Winter 2005]
What then are the GPS … to improve their SSA policy.

The reason it fails is SSA’s status under the DoD
Bennett 10 [James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]
Recent events have underscored the … Commandant of the Space Guard.

GMES is key to solve Arctic navigation and ice info
M&E 11 [Maritime and Energy, “New GMES sea ice information service being established”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ksat.no/News/Press-release-GMES.html]]</span>. 8/18/11]
A new three-year 2 million … Ocean in the summer months.

Icebergs in the Northwest Passage cause accidents and oil spills
Byers & Lalonde 5 [Michael Byers holds the Canada Research Chair in Global Politics and International Law at the University of British Columbia; Suzanne Lalonde is a law professor at l'Université de Montréal. Together, they direct a project on sovereignty and the Northwest Passage funded by the Social Science and Humanities Research Council of Canada, “Our Arctic sovereignty is on thin ice” August 1, 2005, Liu Institute for Global Issues, http://www.ligi.ubc.ca/?p2=/modules/liu/publications/view.jsp&id=1886]
Climate change has other countries … that may flow from that."

Provocations cause nuclear sub deployment
McDonough & Ware 8 [Alexa McDonough MP, Chair PNND Canada and Alyn Ware, PNND Global Coordinator, “Freeing the Poles of Nuclear Conflicts? Time for an Arctic Nuclear Weapon Free Zone!” April 17, 2008]
In October 2007 the National Snow … such as Canada or Denmark.

This collapses critical keystone species
SNS 2k10 [State News Service, “Time Out On Arctic Offshore Oil Drilling Needed” May 6, 2010, pg Lexis]
The lawsuit, filed last January, … the Center for Biological Diversity.

It also guarantees underwater collisions
Edwards 8 [Rob, freelance journalist who specializes in environmental issues, “Could Nuclear Warheads Go Off ‘like popcorn’”, June 26th, http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg19826625.000-could-nuclear-warheads-go-off-like-popcorn.html]
If you thought that the … . "It's a very, very scary thought."

==2AC Case== 
===AT—Radio not Key=== 

2. Arecibo is being used now and it has full funding—it is critical
Earth Issues 2/10 [http://www.earth-issues.com/tag/asteroid/, February 10, 2012]
A near-Earth asteroid named 2005 … from the National Science Foundation.

3. Optical Systems fail without radio astronomy
Schweickart et al 8 (Russel L., Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering, MIT Master of Science in Aeronautics and Astronautics, MIT, Association of Space Explorers International Panel on Asteroid Threat Mitigation, “Asteroid Threats: A Call For Global Response”, http://www.space-explorers.org/ATACGR.pdf)//DT
Asteroid impacts occur on both … us little or no warning.

4. Arecibo is key
Fortuno 2k7 (2007, Luis, “H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)
(1) Arecibo Observatory is the … and to the American People.

==Politics Link Turns== 
**The link turn outweighs the link**
**__Bennett 11__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ … , Winter 2011]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Creating a Space Guard on this model would involve substantial change in the structure and organization of the U.S. government. Change of this magnitude would require the expenditure of political capital, not least because the U.S. Air Force, NASA, and their political patrons could be expected to resist ceding funds, functions, and personnel to a new organization. Indeed, the McKinley paper elicited a substantial negative response from parties related to the Air Force. Therefore, in proposing such a change, we must ask not just what problems it might solve but also which political actors might benefit sufficiently to justify the expenditure of their capital.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[WHERE THEIR EVIDENCE ENDS]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For starters, </span>if the Space … <span class="Underline">than the space regulatory role.</span>

**Ruppersberger pushes the plan**
**Clark 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Colin, editor of defense issues for AOL news, “C.A> ‘Dutch’ Ruppersberger Pushes For Billion-Dollar Missile Defense Satellite,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/05/04/dutch-ruppersberger-billion-dollar-missile-defense-satellite_n_857740.html)</span>
A powerful<span class="Underline"> House </span>Democratannounced<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">awareness a top administration space priority.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ruppersberger is influential</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dutch House 7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– “Ruppersberger Named 36th Most Powerful Member of Congress,”[[http://dutch.house.gov/2007/03/Ruppersberger-36th-Most-Powerful.html.shtml]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Washington, D.C.)- </span>Congressman<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> C.A. Dutch </span>Ruppersberger<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (D-… participation and grass roots organizing.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kyl pushes the plan</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morris 07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jefferson Morris – Aerospace Daily and Defense Report for Aviation Week, March 9 2007, “Kyl Calls For Bigger Space Budgets,” [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=aerospacedaily&id=news/kyl0309.xml&headline=Kyl%20Calls%20For%20Bigger%20Space%20Budgets]]</span>

<span class="Underline">In the wake of China's</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline">defensive or offensive counterspace missions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kyl is influential</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roll Call 09 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 17 2009, “Kyl Whips Quietly, but Effectively,” [[http://www.rollcall.com/issues/54_103/-33205-1.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While he lacks the sizzle … </span><span class="Underline">of the party’s top messengers.</span>

=Off Case Generic Answers= 
==T Military== 

<span class="Underline">**infrastructure includes the military**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ullman 95**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Defense advisor, retired United States Naval Commander, Senior fellow @ National Defense Univesity, Chairman of the Killowen Group that advises leaders in business and government; is chairman or vice chairman of a number of private companies and advisory boards; and a director of the Wall Street Fund - one of the nation's first mutual funds</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Harlan, “In irons U.S. military might in the new century,” p. 154</span>
<span class="Underline">Of all</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the major </span><span class="Underline">defense</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-… characteristics of the political process.</span>

<span class="Underline">**They arbitrarily split the lit base**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kim 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Wyle Laboratories, Inc., et al., “Guidebook on Preparing Airport Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventories”, Airport Cooperative Research Program – Report 11, http://onlinepubs.tr...crp_rpt_011.pdf)</span>
Transportation<span class="Underline"> Sector: </span>Consists of private … government transportation, including military operations.

<span class="Underline">**No Aff meets their interpretation**</span>
**US Code 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(10 USC § 2644 - CONTROL OF TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS IN TIME OF WAR, http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/10/2644)</span>
__In time of war__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__… the exclusion of other traffic.__
**__Overlimiting Bad__— breadth is a prerequisite to depth**
**Hirsch 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> E. D. Hirsch Jr. is President and Chairman of the Board of the Core Knowledge Foundation. October 2001 | Volume 59 | Number 2 What Should We Teach? Pages 22-25 Seeking Breadth and Depth in the Curriculum Learning to learn and gaining deep understanding depend on broad knowledge. But not just any knowledge will suffice. E. D. Hirsch Jr. [[http://www.ascd.org/ASCD/pdf/journals/ed_lead/el200110_hirsch.pdf]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">● General </span>__ability to learn …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">teaching them about specific places. </span>

==T Space== 

**Space Vehicles are roads**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hudgins 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Ph. D, currently Director of Advocacy and Senior Scholar at the Rand institute, former director of regulatory studies for Cato, (Edward, “ Message to Debaters on Economics of the 2011-2012 Topic”, [[@http://debate-central.ncpa.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Message-to-Debaters-on-the-Economics-of-the-Topic.pdf]])</span>
Infrastructure.<span class="Underline"> A fourth reason given for … </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">be performed, that is, space stations. </span>

**US Code defines space TI as launch and space recovery sites and support facilities**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">US Code </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chapter 505in </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">'12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Title 51- National and Commercial Space Programs, January 3, 2012, http://uscode.house.gov/download/pls/Title_51.txt) </span>
Space transportation infrastructure<span class="Underline">. </span>- //__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The term </span>__////__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">"… </span>__//launch or space recovery activities<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Thisis a component of broader transportation infrastructure- prefer contextual evidence </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">US Code </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chapter 509in</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> '12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Title 51- National and Commercial Space Programs, January 3, 2012, [[http://uscode.house.gov/download/pls/51C509.txt]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(8) </span>//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">space transportation</span>__//__, including the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States space-related activities.</span>

**__Overlimiting Bad__—… breadth is a prerequisite to depth**
**Hirsch 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> E. D. Hirsch Jr. is President and Chairman of the Board of the Core Knowledge Foundation. October 2001 | Volume 59 | Number 2 What Should We Teach? Pages 22-25 Seeking Breadth and Depth in the Curriculum Learning to learn and gaining deep understanding depend on broad knowledge. But not just any knowledge will suffice. E. D. Hirsch Jr. [[http://www.ascd.org/ASCD/pdf/journals/ed_lead/el200110_hirsch.pdf]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">● General </span>__ability to learn …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">teaching them about specific places. </span>


== == 
==K Shenanigans== 
===Framework=== 

**This form of transportation politicization is a prerequisite to civic participation**
**Thomas 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ren Thomas, Doctoral Student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia, “Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning,” Critical Planning, Volume 15, Issue 1, Summer, Available Online at http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf, Accessed 07-30-2012, 2008)</span>
<span class="Underline">Although </span>young people do not <span class="Underline">… </span>//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">prevents them from participating politically</span>__//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**This is critical to access democratic agonism—solves critiques of agency**
**Roberts-Miller 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">Patricia Roberts-Miller is Associate Professor of Rhetoric at the University of Texas "Fighting Without Hatred:Hannah Ar endt ' s Agonistic Rhetoric" JAC 22.2 2003, Totalitarianism and the Competitive Space of Agonism]</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Arendt is probably most famous … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, independent but not expressivist rhetoric.</span>__
===Security=== 

**Apocalyptic reps are good – institutionalizing fear into politics is key to check the violent excesses of securitization and the perm doesn’t get coopted**
**Williams 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Graduate School of Public and International Affairs, University of Ottawa, “Securitization and the liberalism of fear,” Security Dialogue August-October 2011 vol. 42 no. 4-5 453-463) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this vision, </span>__fear is … in its more extreme manifestations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 12</span>

**Adopting a prescriptive realist theory as a guide for foreign policy is __critical__ to correct policy errors and minimize violence**
**Rosato and Schuessler 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame AND Assistant Professor of Strategy and International Security at the Air War College (Sebastian and John, “A Realist Foreign Policy for the United States”, Perspectives on Politics December 2011 Vol. 9 No. 4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> With these requirements in … </span>**__become embroiled in future wars__**__.__

**Balance of powers remains a top priority**
**Mearsheimer 1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Professor of Pol Sci at University of Chicago, ‘01, “The Tragedy of Great Power Politics”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The optimists' claim that security … they did in previous centuries.</span>

**Others Won’t Follow Our Lead**
**Murray 97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alastair J.H, Professor Politics at the University of Wales, 1997, Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, p. 181-2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This highlights the central difficulty … , to have overdosed on 'Gorbimania'.</span>
===Empiricism=== 

**Prefer specificity—Empirical validity is a sufficient justification for action**
<span class="Heading2Char">Owen 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium, Vol 31, No 3)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span><span class="CardText1Char">so a potentially </span><span class="CardText2Char">vicious circle arises.</span>

**Empiricism is best for knowing the world – it’s the only way to synthesize facts and inferences to inform action**
**Walt 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> professor of international studies at University of Chicago</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, Annu Rev Polit Sci 8 23-48</span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the relationship between theory and policy in international relations)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Policy decisions can be influenced … , and hermeneutical or interpretivist approaches.</span>
===Util/VTL=== 

**VTL is inevitable**
**Schwartz 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lecturer in Philosophy of Medicine at the Department of General Practice at the University of Glasgow ‘02 (Lisa, , Medical Ethic: A case-based approach, Chapter 6: A Value to Life: Who Decides and How?, www.fleshandbones.com/readingroom/pdf/399.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second assertion made by … concerned and not by others.</span>

**Consequences matter – the tunnel vision of moral absolutism generates evil and political irrelevance**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Issac 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeffery, Professor of Political Science at Indiana University, Dissent, Vol. 49 No. 2, Spring, 2002)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Politics, in large part, involves … . </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And it undermines political effectiveness. </span>__

===Deterrence K Defense=== 
**Our ontology is good – deterrence is good ontology and realizes the infinite alterity of other actors**
**Lupovici 8 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Munk Centre for International Studies, University of Toronto</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amir, “Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse”, paper presented at the Canadian Political Science Association annual conference, Vancouver June 4-6, 2008, [[http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf]])</span>
__Since deterrence can become part … stable expectations of avoiding violence.__


===Asteroids K Defense=== 

**This advantage is backed by fifty years of research**
**Bowers et al 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dual BA in Computer Science and Management Information Systems @ University of Nebraska-Omaha [ , Stephanie M. Cook (Master’s candidate in the Political Science @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Edward James Dale (BA in Electronic Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Josh Koch (Dual BA in Physics and Mathematics @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), John James Miller ( BA in Computer Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), Stephanie D. Silva (Master’s candidate in Public Administration @ University of Nebraska-Omaha) Space Debris: Applied Technology and Policy Prescriptions, USSTRATCOM Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Intern Pogram, Fall 2007 – Project 07-02, January 2008, pg. 8]</span>
__Communications, global commerce and national … **clarity**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to space-faring entities.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Fear is key to stop extinction even if our threats are constructed** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Engdahl 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sylvia, degree from the University of California at Santa Barbara, graduate studies at Portland State University, October 2006, “Achieving Human Commitment to Space Colonization: Is Fear the Answer?”, [[http://lifeboat.com/ex/fear.and.space]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recently, however, I have come to … </span><span class="Underline">**of furthering our common humanity."**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Asteroid advocacy is key to alerting policymakers to the danger of NEAs**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Morrison et al. 2** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- NASA Astrobiology Institute (David, Alan W. Harris, Geoff Sommer, Clark R. Chapman, Andrea Carusi “ Dealing with the Impact Hazard”</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.disastersrus.org/emtools/spacewx/NEO_Chapter_1.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is only during the … public perception and governmental response.</span>

**Asteroids represent fear which drive liberal progress—solves other extinction impacts**
**Verschuur 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 215)</span>
__Childhood's end marks the time …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">our survival? Should we bother?</span>

===Heg Transition Theory=== 
**Power transitions cause wars between the rising and declining power – lack of a hegemon ensures wars**
**Efird, Kugler, and Genna 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Jacek, and Gaspare, member of the Sentia Group --- and --- Professor of IR at Claremont Graduate U – and --- Prof of political science at Winona State University, FROM WAR TO INTEGRATION: GENERALIZING POWERTRANSITION THEORY, International Interactions</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">29:293–313, 2003</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Early power transition theory suggests … defeat them in a military conflict.</span>

**statistical evidence shows power transitions explain 80% of war occurrence**
**Efird, Kugler, and Genna 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Jacek, and Gaspare, member of the Sentia Group --- and --- Professor of IR at Claremont Graduate U – and --- Prof of political science at Winona State University, FROM WAR TO INTEGRATION: GENERALIZING POWERTRANSITION THEORY, International Interactions</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">29:293–313, 2003</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since our interest is in … </span>status quo<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kugler and Zagare, 1990).</span>

**The results are robust**
**Efird, Kugler, and Genna 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Jacek, and Gaspare, member of the Sentia Group --- and --- Professor of IR at Claremont Graduate U – and --- Prof of political science at Winona State University, FROM WAR TO INTEGRATION: GENERALIZING POWERTRANSITION THEORY, International Interactions</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">29:293–313, 2003</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This article suggests a precise characterization … </span>increasing the likelihood of war.

=Critical Debate Aff= 
People were asking for cites for this aff but we do not read any cards. If anyone wants to talk to me about the aff, feel free to email me at shaunverma@gmail.com

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]