[[toc]]
====A Note on Disclosure==== 
If you want any specific citations, you can email me at [[mailto:rteehas@gmail.com|rteehas@gmail.com]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

Hegel AC

Framework cards:

Baum:
The principle of civil society is the particular person who takes himself qua particular, that is, in relation to the satisfaction of his or her particular needs [views them as ]and exercise of particular capacities, as his or her own end. But this end can be realized only if he or she accommodates to the needs and capacities of other persons, that is, to the sphere of universality. Hegel says that “each particular person asserts itself and gains satisfaction through the others, and thus at the same time through the exclusive mediation of the form of universality” (Rph §182 ). The reciprocal dependence of the members of a society that produces its means of subsistence through the division of labor, and the independence of this society that is maintained only through the reciprocal solidarity and assistance of its members in the face of enemies and external obstacles of one sort or another, have constantly been invoked ever since Plato and Aristotle as the principle reasons for the emergence of social and communal life.

Baum 2:
The fact that it is therefore in one’s own interest to pay attention to the interests of others in a sense compels everyone to submit to the laws of the universal in order to secure the realization and enjoyment of their own ends. “The selfish end in its actualization, conditioned in this way by universality, establishes a system of all-around interdependence, so that the subsistence and welfare of the individual and his rightful existence is interwoven with, and grounded on, the subsistence, [and] welfare and rights of all, and have their actuality and security only in this context” (Rph §183 ). This system [is], which Hegel here also calls the “state of necessity,” that is, a state that arises from the necessity of surviving the insecurities of a mutual struggle of all against all, is a “system where ethical life has been lost in its extremes”

Baum 3
When Hegel distinguishes in this way between civil society as a community of ends based entirely on the personal interests of its participants and the state as [is] a union of human beings that is intrinsically necessary (for the sake of freedom of action in general), it is difficult not to think of Kant’s distinction between a contingently conceived society and a society conceived in terms of virtue: “a union of many for some or other (shared) purpose (that they all possess ) can be found in all social contracts; but a union of the same that is an intrinsic end is therefore the . . . unconditioned and primary duty: but such a union can be found in a society only insofar as the latter . . . constitutes a shared community” [ein gemeines Wesen ].

Contention cards:

Kant:
The general will of the people has united itself into a society that is to maintain itself perpetually; and for this end it has submitted itself to the internal authority of the state in order to maintain those members of the society who are unable to maintain themselves. For reasons of state the government is therefore authorized to constrain the wealthy to provide the means of sustenance to those who are unable to provide for even their most necessary natural needs.

Cullity:
The professional field that is most obviously governed in this way by expectations of beneficence is of course health care. The relationship between health care professionals and their patients is governed by a mutual understanding that the role of the former is to use their medical expertise for the benefit of the latter. The expectations and entitlements thus created provide the core of health care ethics. Accordingly, the most prominent issues in health care ethics are all issues about the proper exercise of beneficence. The main ones concern [the] its scope [ of beneficence], its proper expression, its relationship with other ethical priorities, and the exercise of authority in making judgements about it. The remainder of the chapter offers a brisk treatment of each of these topics, drawing attention to the ways in which the general points made above can help us to think about them.
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
**Wilderson K**
----
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The only ethical demand available to modern politics is that of the Slave and the Savage, the demand for the end of America itself. This cry, born out of the belly of slave ships and the churning vertigo of constitutive genocide, exposes the grammar of the Affirmative’s calls for larger institutional access as a fundamental fortification of White Settler and Slave Master civil society by its diversionary focus on the ethicality of the policies and practices of the United States as opposed to the a priori question its very existence. This silence of the Affirmative’s assumptive logic renders them unaccountable to the revolutionary political ontology of Redness and Blackness and thereby sets the stage for the various dramas of conflictual relationships i.e. class struggle, gender conflict, immigrants rights, etc. that are made possible by the antagonism between Settler and Savage, Master and Slave. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Wilderson 2010 [Frank B., killed apartheid officials in South Africa, nuff said, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages 1-5] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">When I was a young student at Columbia University (TO) the close reading of feature films and political theory that follows. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">While the afterlife of slavery is far from an abstraction in the lived reality of blackness, recourse to the sociological empirics of suffering already codifies the category of “exploitation” as the base grammar of suffering, ignoring the gratuitousness of anti-black violence and enshrining the call for more public policy as the limit point of our revolutionary demands. This elides the way in which civil society is parasitic on The Middle Passage and thus how Humanity itself can only be constituted in opposition to the fundamentally anti-Human position of the slave. It is this libidinal economy of anti-blackness which exists as the condition of possibility for the violence of the world. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Wilderson 2010 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[Frank B., Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages 10-11] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Regatding the Black position, some might ask why (TO) the gates of Columbia University awaits an answer. </span>

The practices of rehabilitation are merely a reproduction of the foundational logic of exclusion that has propped up civil society. The deviants are defined in relation to the white male, whereas Blackness is still the void. Rodriguez:
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">[Dylan, Forced Passages: Imprisoned Radical Intellectuals and the U.S. Prison Regime, page 67]</span>
Disrupting Foucault’s genealogy are those whose (TO) modernist historical telos.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Thus we should focus our energies and points of attention on an unflinching paradigmatic analysis that calls for the end of America. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Wilderson 2010 [Frank B., I told you he was on some guerilla shit, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages ix-x] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Strange as it might seem, this book project began (TO) Prishani Naidoo, John Shai, and S’bu Zulu. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Life will not change for the better absent an assault on the establishment. That doesn’t mean we will live to enjoy the fruits of the revolution but it DOES mean that we should pursue revolutionary suicide because death is inevitable and this is the only one worth pursuing. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Huey P. Newton 1973, Co-founder of the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, Revolutionary Suicide, pages 2-6 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Connected to reactionary suicide, although even more painful (TO) The reality will be grimmer. </span>

And, the genocidal clearing of indigenous peoples in America is not something that can simply be redressed with this semiotics of loss. It is not something that can be approached with the false elasticity of public policy remedies in civil society. Rather it is something that can only be addressed with an ethical analysis that calls for the obliteration of civil society. Wilderson:
A semiotics of loss cannot...<span style="line-height: 1.5;">constrain ethics.</span>



**Immigration DA**
----
**UQ:**
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Immigration reform will pass now --- it’s a top priority and other issues don’t thump**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Huffington Post, 1-2**-2013, p. www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/02/obama-immigration-reform_n_2398507.html</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Despite a bruising fiscal cliff battle that…working together and singing 'Kumbaya,'" Sharry said.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Underline">AT: Thumper -- Debt Ceiling</span></span>=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Obama avoids** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Helderman 1/2** (Rosalind, 1/2/2013, “After the ‘fiscal cliff’: When are the next battles in Congress?”[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/after-the-fiscal-cliff-when-are-the-next-battles-in-congress/2013/01/02/370700ac-54ff-11e2-a613-ec8d394535c6_story.html]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The “fiscal cliff” debate may be…not be drawn into such talks.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Underline">AT: Thumper -- Hagel</span></span>=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Obama has political capital and didn’t waste any on nominations.**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elise **Jordan**, Former Speechwriter to Condoleezza Rice, **12-22**-2012, MSNBC</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">ELISE JORDAN, FORMER SPEECHWRITER TO CONDOLEEZZA RICE: But at this…are, I mean, putting themselves on the line for him.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Underline">Bill-Specific Link</span></span>=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Still links --- the plan derails support --- causes massive backlash** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Jeffords 1/4/13** (Christine Jeffords, “Immigration Reform 2013: Obama Just Doesn’t Have Time For Serious Reform,” Policymic,[[http://www.policymic.com/articles/21928/immigration-reform-2013-obama-just-doesn-t-have-time-for-serious-reform]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Of course, the fact is that immigration…resolved not to let it happen again.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Underline">PC Key</span></span>=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Obama use to use pc to get everyone on board**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**DALLAS MORNING NEWS**, editorial, "Actions Must Match Obama's Immigration Pledge," **1--2**--13,[[http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece]]</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">President Barack Obama said all the right…comprehensive solution. Nothing but action will count.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Underline">Economy Impact</span></span>=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Maintaining current high skill immigration flows key to the economy- job creation and innovation**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Schuck and Tyler 10** (Peter H. and John E., Simeon E. Baldwin Professor of Law at Yale University and a visiting professor at New York University School of Law; and Vice President and Corporate Secretary of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, MAKING THE CASE FOR CHANGING U.S. POLICY REGARDING HIGHLY SKILLED IMMIGRANTS, Fordham Urban Law Journal, Vol. 38, No. 1) </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Other Research Some studies suggest that immigrants have…jobs, thereby contributing to the growth of mature firms.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Underline">Hegemony Impact</span></span>=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Turns hegemony -- Immigration reform is key to competitiveness** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Kinnari 12/29** Aaron, founder of the Future Forum a platform for educating and engaging young leaders on important global issues, Immigration Reform Would Be the Biggest Gift We Could Get This Year. 12/29/12. [[http://www.policymic.com/articles/21633/immigration-reform-would-be-the-biggest-gift-we-could-get-this-year]]. CMR</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">When it takes session in January, the…on giving for generations to come.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Underline">Science Diplomacy Impact</span></span>=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**PC is key --- it solves H1-B’s**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**AP 12/12** (“Editorial Roundup: Excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers in the US and abroad”,[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/editorial-roundup-excerpts-from-recent-editorials-in-newspapers-in-the-us-and-abroad/2012/12/12/b6108852-447c-11e2-8c8f-fbebf7ccab4e_story.html]], CMR)</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The immigration reform debate is over. The nativists…other are crass appeals to economic and political fears. ...</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Key to science diplomacy – solves every transnational threat and turns the case** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Pickering et al 10** [Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering served as under secretary of State from 1997 to 2000 and chairs the advisory council of the Civilian Research and Development Foundation. Dr. Peter Agre, director of the Johns Hopkins Malaria Research Institute and president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, won the 2003 Nobel Prize in chemistry. They are among the signers of a bipartisan statement by the Partnership for a Secure America on the use of science in American diplomacy: www.psa online.org/ science. “POLITICAL SCIENCE; MORE OPPORTUNITIES NEEDED FOR U.S. RESEARCHERS TO WORK WITH THEIR FOREIGN COUNTERPARTS”, Baltimore Sun, Feb 9, lexis]</span>

__<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**AT: Winners Win**</span>__

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Only blame sticks to him---means winners lose---healthcare proves**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nicholas & Hook 10** Peter and Janet, Staff Writers – LA Times, “Obama the Velcro president”, LA Times, 7-30,[[http://articles.latimes.com/2010/jul/30/nation/la-na-velcro-presidency-20100730/3]]</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">If Ronald Reagan was the classic Teflon…it hasn't translated into dinner table conversations."</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Winners lose---PC’s not renewable, is zero-sum, and diminishes fast**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Ryan 9** Selwyn, Professor Emeritus and former Director, Institute of Social and Economic Research, University of the West Indies, “Obama and political capital,” 1/18 [[http://www.trinidadexpress.com/index.pl/article_opinion?id=161426968]]</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Like many, I expect much from Obama, who…strong constituency in cyberspace (the latent "Obama Party").</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**PC is zero sum and finite---winners don’t win**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thomas **Hale 11** is a PhD Candidate in the Department of Politics at Princeton University and a Visiting Fellow at LSE Global Governance, London School of Economics, “A Climate Coalition of the Willing” The Washington Quarterly, 2011, Google Scholar</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, on top of this structural bias, the…unlikely to surface for at least two years.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama overreaching threatens to collapse lame-duck – empirics prove</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Miniter</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, investigative journalist, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">12</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Richard, NYTimes best selling author, “Leading from Behind: The Reluctant President and the Advisors Who Decide for Him,” google books, 84-5, accessed 11-8-12, CMM)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">After the historic defeat, Axelrod went…to take any more political risks.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Political capital is key and zero-sum</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rottinghaus ’10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Assistant Professor of Political Science at U of H [Brandon, Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, U of H-Town, “The Provisional Pulpit: Modern Presidential Leadership of Public Opinion”, page number below, CMR]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Similarly, other issues (countervailing elements) may…for battle against an averse Congress. [page 193-195]</span>

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]