[[toc]]
=Round 1 (Aff v. Pace BC)= 
==PACS 1AC== 
===**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Advantage 1 – Hegemony</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Global space weaponization inevitable – treaties and commercial ventures simply mask military capabilities</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Pandey ’10</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> [ BK Pandey, an Indian Air Marshal, former air officer in command of training command for the indian Air Force, vol. 25.3 of the indiandefence review, http://www.indiandefencereview.com/military-&-aerospace/Space-the-emerging-battleground.html]</span>
History is witness …, can become a reality.


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Attempts at Code of Conduct agreements fail – lack of foreign adherence prevents us from getting ahead</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Bolton and Yoo 3/8</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">/12 [John R. Bolton, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, was ambassador to the United Nations from 2005 to 2006. John C. Yoo, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley and a former Justice Department official, “Hands off the Heavens” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/09/opinion/hands-off-the-heavens.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">OUTER </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">space has …</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">“customary international law.”</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Weaponizing now is the only way to prevent an arms race and maintain US primacy – space is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Dolman, ‘10</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">This is the …</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> years—is remote. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Control of space and secure defense assets key to conventional warfighting capabilities</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, <span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Space weapons</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;"> are expensive; …</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">lose its preeminence.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Hegemony stops great power wars and creates global stability</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Kagan</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, Senior Fellow at Brookings, 3-14-</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">’12</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Robert, “America has made the world freer, safer and wealthier” CNN,<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://us.cnn.com/2012/03/14/opinion/kagan-world-america-made/index.html?hpt=hp_c1]]</span>)</span>

We take a lot … came into being.


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Questions of sustainability are moot – US space dominance creates permanent American hegemony and solves terrorism forever</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Yoshida</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, B.C. Director of the Freedom Institute, Author of The Nothern Abyss, Noted Political Commentator, Columnist for the Greenwich Village Gazette, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">2003</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Adam, Oct 10th, “Red China Shooting for the Moon”, Freedom Institute Magazine, <span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.adamyoshida.com/2003_10_01_archive.html]]</span> )</span>
If all goes … follow depends upon it.


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Terrorism causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Morgan</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, Professor Foreign Studies Hankuk University, ‘</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">9</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Dennis Ray, December, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race” Futures, Vol 41 Issue 10, p 683-693, ScienceDirect)</span>
In a remarkable … ecosphere as well.


===**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Advantage 2 – China</span>**=== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">China is intent on taking over space – weaponization efforts will accelerate, guaranteeing war with the US</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Chang</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, USCC Research Fellow Military and National Security Affairs at US-China Economic and Security Review Commission, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">4-5</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">-’12 (Amy, “Indigenous Weapons Development in China’s Military Modernization” http://www.uscc.gov/researchpapers/2012/China-Indigenous-Military-Developments-Final-Draft-03-April2012.pdf)</span>
China’s repeated calls … processes, remain secret.” 91


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Even if China is bluffing, current weaponization ensures miscalculation and crisis instability that incentivizes conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MacDonald, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">One characteristic of … and likely to grow.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Chinese attempts at space dominance cause the US to pre-emptively strike, causing war over Taiwan</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Lewis</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">04</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Jeffrey, postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program @ the Center for Inter- national and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, “What if Space Were Weaponized?” http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">Not surprisingly, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">the …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> of a mushroom cloud</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">.”29</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Space is key – conflict between the US and China there is the most likely scenario for coming war</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Dolman 2010</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The coming war … cheaply and effectively. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Loss of satellite capabilities causes war over Taiwan</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Easton 2009</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">(Ian, specialist in Chinese aeronautics at the Washington-based Project 2049 Institute,“The Great Game in Space” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">http://project2049.net/documents/china_asat_weapons_the_great_game_in_space.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Any possible U.S. … weapons could have</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">China will escalate the conflict—perception of rational escalation ensures US gets drawn into a broader nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Glaser 2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Charles, Political Science Professor @ George Washington University, March/April, “Will China’s Rise Lead to War?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 90 Issue 2, EbscoHost)</span>
The prospects for … U.S.-Chinese relations.


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Curbing Chinese aggression key to prevent regional counterbalancing that escalates to war</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Brzezinski</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, Former US National Security Advisor, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">’12</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Zbigniew, January/February, “After America” Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america)</span>
China, invariably mentioned …violent and bloodthirsty.


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Asian war escalates to full nuclear use – nuclear asymmetry and complex security dynamics make de-escalation impossible</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Twomey</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, Professor National Security at Naval Postgraduate, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">’11</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Christopher, January, “Asia's Complex Strategic Environment: Nuclear Multipolarity and Other Dangers” Asia Policy, No 11, ProjectMuse)</span>
Implications Each element … China and India.

===**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Plan</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The United States Department of Defense should develop and deploy microsatellites tasked with inspection, surveillance, maintenance, protection, and propulsion capabilities to facilitate a Parasitic Attitude Control System.</span>**

===**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> Solvency</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The best covert seizure of space would be deployment of micro-satellites in the form of a Parasitic Attitude Control System to hack and dismantle enemy capabilities without debris or negative perception</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Page 2006</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Joseph, Assistant flight commander and ICBM combat crew commander (Squadron Command Post) at the 741st Missile Squadron, 91st Space Wing, Minor AFB, North Dakota, “Stealing Zeus's Thunder” Air & Space Power Journal Summer 2006 pg. 29-31)</span>
The idea of … necessarily obliterating them


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Even if it was detected, PACS renders countermeasures or escalation pointless</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Klein 2006</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> [Commander John - United States Navy, Space Warfare: Strategy, Principles and Policy (Space Power and Politics) Pg. 77]</span>
Perhaps the best … from defensive strategy.


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">And, PACS is the most effective microsat technology—cohesive with anti-ASAT capabilities and easily developed</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Page 2006</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Joseph, Assistant flight commander and ICBM combat crew commander (Squadron Command Post) at the 741st Missile Squadron, 91st Space Wing, Minor AFB, North Dakota, “Stealing Zeus's Thunder” Air & Space Power Journal Summer 2006 pg. 27-28)</span>
If the United … and space warfare.


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Microsat defense systems are the best and ONLY way to protect current satellites and stay covert until necessary</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Schendzielos 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Kurt, Director, 13th Air Force Commander's Action Group at US Air Force, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites” http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada485553.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">An inherent advantage …satellite is orbiting.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">2AC T Human</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Counter-interpretation: development under the DoD or NASA can be technology or operational technology development</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">GAO 10 – US Government Accountability Office (“United States Government Stewardship Information (Unaudited) for the Years Ended September 30, 2010, and 2009 Stewardship Investments” http://www.gao.gov/financial/fy2010/10stew.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">With regard to … suite of missions. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Counter-interpretation: Space development is technological progress</span>

Pekkanen<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> and </span>Kallender-Emezu<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 2010</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> [Saadia, Job and Gertrud Tamaki Professor at the Jackson School of International Studies, and Adjunct Professor of Law at the School of Law, University of Washington, with Paul, writer and editor for Stanford University Press, “In Defense of Japan: From The Market to the Military in Space Policy” pg. 33-34]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-align: justify;">Over the course … and international cooperation.</span>

==2AC Der Derian K== 

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">No prior questions—focus on critical theory makes it impossible to describe the world and act</span>
David<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> Owen, </span>Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2002 </span>p. 655-7
Commenting on the … vicious circle arises.


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> For the latest generation of Chinese military leadership, the United States is the enemy. Threat construction goes both ways.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wines, China bureau chief for The New York Times, in 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">[Michael, “U.S. Alarmed by Harsh Tone of China’s Military”, New York Times, October 11]</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Pentagon</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> is … </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> be their enemy.</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">No Link – Scenarios are key to identify threats and plot the best course of action – the alt promotes shallow analysis </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Liotta and Somes 03</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">P.H., Jerome E. Levy Cahir, Economic Geography and National Security, Naval War College Timothy E., Professor Emeritus, “The Art of Perceiving Scenarios and the Future,” NAVAL WAR COLLEGE REVIEW v. 56 n. 4, Autumn 20, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">[[http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2003/Autumn/cy1-a03.htm|**http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2003/Autumn/cy1-a03.htm**]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Finally, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the scenarios … risk and reward.</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">8</span>__</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px; text-align: justify;">2AC Privatization CP</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Perm: Do both it’s normal means for the Air Force to develop microsats alongside private companies</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">SatNews 2001</span>__** [“Lockheed Martin Selected to Build and Fly Microsatellite” [[http://www.satnews.com/stories2/4aug2001-7.html]]]
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Lockheed Martin</span> Space …and verification procedures.
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The CP is a stretch of ideology—corporations have their role but lack of motivation or specific capabilities guts solvency</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Day 2009</span>__** (Dwayne, PhD in Political Science from George Washington U., Space Studies Board of the National Research Council/National Academy of Sciences, where he has served as a study director on studies concerning NASA's planetary exploration program, “Space fetishism: space activism’s obsession with technological and ideological saviors”
But of course <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">…</span> than for others.

==2AC Jackson Vanik== 
Magnitsky swamps relations gains – Obama won’t block it
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ivanov, Political Analyst, 4-27-’12 (Eugene, “Magnitsky for Jackson-Vanik: A fair trade?” http://rbth.ru/articles/2012/04/27/magnitsky_for_jackson-vanik_a_fair_trade_15417.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">In recent weeks, …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> “reaction” will be</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>

No link - The money for the plan would be taken covertly
Michael E. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Salla</span>, PhD Center for Global Peace/School of International Service American University, Washington DC 11/23/20<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">03</span>[ The black budget report, http://www.slideshare.net/ProphecyFactory/the-blackbudgetreport-9017285]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Birth of the Black Budget In 1947, the National Security Act created the National Security Council, the Central Intelligence Organization (CIA) and consolidated the US military into one entity, the Department of Defense (DoD). </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">One of the …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> funding of the CIA</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


Passage inevitable and delayed until August
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lincicome, International Trade Attorney White & Case, LLP, 4-23-’12 (Scott- Senior Trade Advisor to McCain and has litigated before the Department of Commerce, US International Trade Commission, US Court of International Trade, and the WTO DSM; “With Russia Poised to Enter the WTO, Will Congress Really Deny Permanent Normal Trade Relations?” http://lincicome.blogspot.com/2012/04/with-russia-poised-to-enter-wto-will.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Reuters reported</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> over … long-term? Unlikely.</span>

election pressure
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Klein, 3/19</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> (Ezra, 3/19/2012, “The Unpersuaded; Who listens to a President?” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 17.3333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2012/03/19/120319fa_fact_klein#ixzz1pxjQpFdO|http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2012/03/19/120319fa_fact_klein#ixzz1pxjQpFdO]]</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In January, 2004…</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> him to govern.</span>

No Impact – Cooperation inevitable
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hahn</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, Senior Associate Russia and Eurasia at CSIS, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">4-11</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">-’12 (Gordon, “Romney's Russia Gambit” The National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/romneys-russia-gambit-6757)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Russia is not ..</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">over Moscow’s objections.)</span>


=Round 2 (Neg v. Gulliver MZ)= 
==Prior Launch PIC 1NC== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The United States federal government should substantially increase Space Deterrence assets beyond the earth’s mesosphere excluding launch on demand infrastructure. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The counterplan PICs out of allowing for launch on demand – it causes accidental nuclear war between the US and Russia</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Bleek</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">, Arms Control Association, ‘</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> (Phillipp, January, “U.S., Russia Sign Missile- and Space-Launch Notification Deal” http://www.armscontrol.org/print/801)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Aiming to reduce …</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> as a "final round."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Accidental launch causes World War 3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Pikaev, ‘1</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> (A.G. ARBATOV- Ph.D., Head of RAS IMEMO PMFC, State Duma Deputy, Deputy Chairman of the State Duma Defense Committee, V.S. BELOUS- Ph.D., Leading Research Associate of the Institute of International Economy and Foreign Relations (IMEMO) of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Professor of the Military Sciences Academy, Major General (Ret.), A.A. PIKAEV- Candidate of Political Sciences, Head of the RAS IMEMO PMFC Non-Proliferation and Arms Reduction Center, Assistant State Duma Deputy, V.G. BARANOVSKY- Ph.D., Deputy Director, RAS IMEMO, “De-alerting Russian and US nuclear weapons: A path to reducing nuclear dangers” Institute of International Economy and Foreign Relations at the Russian Academy of Sciences, http://www.ieer.org/russian/pubs/dlrtbk-e.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The capability of … massive nuclear strikes</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Jackson Vanik 1NC</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Jackson-Vanik repeal is likely – Congressional opinions are starting to shift</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Nesterov, 4-13</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">-’12 (Vladmir, “US Congress increasingly realise Jackson-Vanik repeal need” http://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2012/04/13/us-congress-increasingly-realise-jackson-vanik-repeal-need.html)</span>
The US Congress… from the USSR.

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Space weaponization unpopular – Congress has conceded it’s costly and ineffective</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Grego 2011 (Laura, staff scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists, 6/2/11, http://allthingsnuclear.org/post/6105337195/space-based-missile-defense-still-a-bad-idea) </span>
The House Strategic … not be effective.
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Political capital is key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Frolov, 3-23</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">-‘12 (Vladimir, “Russia Profile Weekly Experts Panel: Will Russia Graduate From the Jackson-Vanik Amendment?” Russia Profile, Factiva)</span>
During the post-Soviet … for Russian democracy.
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Repeal key to relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Gvosdev</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, US Navy War College, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">2-10</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">-’12 (Nikolas, “The Realist Prism: Resetting the US-Russia Reset” World Politics Review, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/11441/the-realist-prism-resetting-the-u-s-russia-reset]])</span>
After a period … of the reset.
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Russia relations solve nuclear war and every major impact </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Allison</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Director Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">and Blackwill</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Senior Fellow CFR, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">’11</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Graham and Robert, October 30, “Ten Reasons Why Russia Still Matters” Politico, [[http://www.cfr.org/russian-fed/ten-reasons-why-russia-still-matters/p26345]])</span>

That central point … our national interests.

==Jackson Vanik 1NR== 
Obama push means Jackson-Vanik will pass now
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Wingfield, 4-26-’12 (Brian, “Obama Should Move Quickly on Russia Trade Status, Camp Says” http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-04-26/obama-should-move-quickly-on-trade-status-for-russia-camp-says)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span>Obama<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> administration </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… issue</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, she said.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Business council predicts passage</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Voice of Russia, 4-12</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">-’12 (“Jackson-Vanik bad for US” http://english.ruvr.ru/2012_04_12/71450355/)</span>**</span>
The U.S. Congress … the Russian market.
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">No risk of political support – massive backlash as a result of the plan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Mueller, 6</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Karl, PhD and Political Scientist @ RAND, “Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408, EMM)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The United States … in that direction. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The plan is political unfeasible - your author agrees</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Dolman and Cooper, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Within about 15 … system became operational.</span>
Limited bargaining chips – Fighting for passage of the plan FORCES a trades off with other agenda priorities
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Beckmann & Kumar, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> --- Department of PoliSci and UC Irvine (Matthew N. Beckmann and Vimal Kumar, Journal of Theoretical Politics, “How presidents push, when presidents win: A model of positive presidential power in US lawmaking,” SAGE Journals Database)</span>
The Wellsprings of … systematically influence them.
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Legislative style – Obama gets too involved too publically – he has to trade away too much</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Galston 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> (William, Senior Fellow for Governance Studies – Brookings Institution, “President Barack Obama’s First Two Years: Policy Accomplishments, Political Difficulties”, 11-4, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/110 4_obama_galston.aspx)</span>
Rather than doing … and the states.)
Obama will water it down which shields fall out
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Inside US Trade, 4-27-’12 (“Administration Puts Pressure on Substance, Timing of Magnitsky Bill” lexis)</span>
While the Obama … World Trade Organization.
Magnitsky taken off the agenda
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rogin, 4-24-’12 (Josh, “Kerry delays action on Magnitsky bill” Foreign Policy, http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/04/24/kerry_delays_action_on_magnitsky_bill)</span>
A bill to <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to the agenda." </span>

==T Human 1NC== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Interpretation - Exploration means to expand human presence to space</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Logsdon, 9 – </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute(John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]]</span>)</span>

Exploration as a Compelling Rationale…several “secondary objectives.”

**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">So does development</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Livingston 07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">**we don’t endorse gendered language</span>

Eric Westling is … projects in space.

==DOD Tradeoff 1NC== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The DoD budget is stabilizing now – maintaining status quo assets is prioritized </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">GAO 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[ SPACE ACQUISITIONS DOD Faces Challenges in Fully Realizing Benefits of Satellite Acquisition Improvements Statement of Cristina T. Chaplain, Director Acquisition and Sourcing Management Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, U.S. Senate [[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-563T]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Chairman Nelson, Ranking Member Sessions, and Members of the Subcommittee: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">I am pleased .. satellite acquisition improvements.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The plan derails budget reform and is never deployed – lack of planning and testing means failure for critical DoD programs</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">GAO 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [ SPACE ACQUISITIONS DOD Faces Challenges in Fully Realizing Benefits of Satellite Acquisition Improvements Statement of Cristina T. Chaplain, Director Acquisition and Sourcing Management Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, U.S. Senate [[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-563T]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Our </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">past work … to implement them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">That guts military dominance and turns their deterrence internal</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">GAO 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[ SPACE ACQUISITIONS DOD Faces Challenges in Fully Realizing Benefits of Satellite Acquisition Improvements Statement of Cristina T. Chaplain, Director Acquisition and Sourcing Management Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, U.S. Senate [[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-563T]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Moreover, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">there are …</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> and Atmospheric Administration.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The Disad turns the aff –DoD austerity is key to sustaining SSA </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">GAO 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [ SPACE ACQUISITIONS DOD Faces Challenges in Fully Realizing Benefits of Satellite Acquisition Improvements Statement of Cristina T. Chaplain, Director Acquisition and Sourcing Management Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, U.S. Senate [[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-563T]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">JMS (space situational awareness)</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">… or federal labs</span>


==DOD Tradeoff 2NC== 
And, The Disad has the largest internal link to the aff – any SSA effort fails without the Joint Operations Center – there’s too much data now
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Dykewicz, 3/19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Paul Dykewicz, 3/19/12 ditorial director of Eagle Financial Publications, journalist who has written for Dow Jones, and USA Today “Key House Panel Hearing Reveals Concerns about DoD Cuts to Space Activities” http://www.hostedpayload.com/blog/key-house-panel-hearing-reveals-concerns-about-dod-cuts-to-space-activities]</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The need to …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Frequency (AEHF) programs.</span>
And, The DOD is still trying to figure out cost overruns with current programs – any new tech collapses budget priorities
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">GAO 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[ SPACE ACQUISITIONS DOD Faces Challenges in Fully Realizing Benefits of Satellite Acquisition Improvements Statement of Cristina T. Chaplain, Director Acquisition and Sourcing Management Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, U.S. Senate [[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-563T]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Even though …</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Defense Weather Satellite effort.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Burke K 1NC</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The 1AC’s enframing of strategic and technical reason reifies an ontology and epistemology of violence—their technological worldview reduces all beings to standing-reserve and guarantees extinction</span>**

__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Burke 7</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)</span>

This essay develops … it permeates being.




**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The judge should take on the role of the intellectual – vote negative to exchange the ontology of being for one of becoming—this free relationship to technology entails a questioning that can break free from technological thought and re-imagine the world from outside the political space</span>**

__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Burke 7</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)</span>

I was motivated … Will our thought?


==1NC Heg Adv.== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Decline of hegemony forces US retrenchment – No Transition War</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MacDonald and Parent 11</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> – Asst Prof. of PoliSci @ Williams College and Parent, Asst Prof. PoliSci @ U of Miami, Paul and Joseph, “Graceful Decline?” International Security, 35.4, Project MUSE Paul and Joseph, “Graceful Decline?”, International Security, 35.4, Project MUSE</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">In this article… their relative position</span>

No impact to space attack - the US only needs 4 to have full GPS capabilities and redundancy means an attack would leave some standing
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Forden, 7</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> – writer for Arms Control Today (Geoffrey, “After China's Test: Time For a Limited Ban on Anti-Satellite Weapons. Arms Control Today, April 2007, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2007_04/Forden]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">On the other … as time critical.</span>
Space deterrence impossible
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Morgan, 10</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> - senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, served on the strategy and policy staff at Headquarters, U.S. Air Force, Pentagon, and as professor of comparative military studies at the Air University School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS) (Forest E., “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” RAND, pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Efforts to … suffer certain limitations. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">No impact to hegemony</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Friedman 10</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">—research fellow in defense and homeland security, Cato. PhD candidate in pol sci, MIT (Ben, Military Restraint and Defense Savings, 20 July 2010, http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-bf-07202010.html,)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">A</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">nother </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">argument for</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> … no obvious benefit.</span>


==1NC China Adv.== 
No South China Sea dispute – China moderated
Fravel, Professor PolSci MIT, 3-22-’12 (Taylor- Member MIT Security Studies Program, “All Quiet in the South China Sea” Foreign Affairs)
In recent years, … in the region.

No PLA internal Link – lack of a review committee insulates them from deterrence and diplomatic Pressure
MacDonald, 11 - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)
One characteristic of … likely to grow.

No US-China war – tension is rhetoric
Wallerstein, ’12 [Immanuel Wallerstein, Senior Research Scholar at Yale University, “China and the United States: Rivals, Enemies, Collaborators?,” January 15th 2012, http://www.agenceglobal.com/article.asp?id=2717]
While the collapse of the Soviet Union rendered irrelevant any Chinese-U.S. alliance against it, the relations between the two countries did not really change. They became, if anything, much closer. The situation in … the decade proceeds.


=Round 3 (Aff v. Lexington CY)= 
==2AC Zero BMD CP== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The Perm is best — Covert payloads solve detection</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">DeSutter 2008</span>__</span> (Paula, former Assistant Secretary for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation “Is An Outer Space Arms Control Treaty Verifiable?” http://www.nti.org/e_research/source_docs/us/department_state/ briefings_speeches_testimony/121.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">One plausible cheating ... </span> its true purposes.

==2AC Psychoanalysis K== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Psychonalysis is a rigged game of forced choice. It serves as only a cog in the binary machine that turns us into soulless slaves. Reject it as a theory</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Parnet ’87</span>__**[famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002]
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">You cannot escape …</span><span style="color: #616161; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">ex</span><span style="color: #2f2f2f; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">p</span><span style="color: #616161; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">ect </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">of </span><span style="color: #2f2f2f; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">him. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">No prior questions—focus on critical theory makes it impossible to describe the world and act</span>
David<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> Owen, </span>Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2002 </span>p. 655-7
Commenting on the … vicious circle arises.


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> For the latest generation of Chinese military leadership, the United States is the enemy. Threat construction goes both ways.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wines, China bureau chief for The New York Times, in 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">[Michael, “U.S. Alarmed by Harsh Tone of China’s Military”, New York Times, October 11]</span>
The Pentagon is … be their enemy.”


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">No empirical basis for applying psychology to state action</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Epstein</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">, senior lecturer in government and IR – University of Sydney, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">‘10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">(Charlotte, “Who speaks? Discourse, the subject and the study of identity in international politics,” European Journal of International Relations XX(X) 1–24)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">One key advantage … indeed an </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">analogy.</span>



=Round 4 (Neg V. St. Marks BB)= 
==1NC Condition on SLS CP== 

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The United States federal government should deploy a propellant depot architecture if and only if the National Aeronautics and Space Administration continues the Space Launch System heavy-lift launch program.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The counterplan competes – the plan text says they ensure deployment – ensure means to guarantee</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Dictionary.com, ’12</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> (http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/ensure)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">en·sure</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">   [en-shoor, -shur] Show IPA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">verb (used with … </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;"> of an undertaking.</span>



**The net-benefit is trade-off – the aff prevents NASA from using the Space Launch System – turns the aff because it’s key to space exploration**

Griffin, Professor Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Alabama, and Pace, Director Space Policy Institute, 11-2-’11 (Michael Griffin-Former Administrator of NASA and TIME’s 100 Most Influential People of 2007, and Scott Pace; “Propellant Depots Instead of Heavy Lift?” SpaceNews, http://spacenews.com/commentaries/111031-propellant-depots-instead-heavy-lift.html)

Issues of technical … steps beyond LEO.


==1NC Death K== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">a) Your conception of death presupposes a transcendental emphasis on the vertical hierarchy which establishes individual beings, calling this life. But there is always a horizontal dissolution to all boundaries in a positive and immanent complexity. From this perspective, death is nothing more than the abolition of stop signs in an infinite traffic of intensities. All of life is a vertical mirage, a fiction intimately bound to the death immanent to it.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Land 92</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> (The Thirst for Annihilation: Georges Bataille and Virulent Nihilism, Routledge University Press, NY, 1992, p. 173-174 Lecturer in Continental Philosophy at the University of Warwick)</span>

General economy is … with solar dreams.



<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">b) We have internalized the blackmail of security, encasing ourselves in cellophane to ensure our shelf lives. This view reduces the body to a diseased object in need of protection and insurance, making life nothing more than a process of continual mortification.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Baudrillard 76</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> (Jean, smart Frenchy, Symbolic Exchange and Death, pp. 177-180, Sage Publications)</span>

Security is another … into its sarcophagus.

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">C) Live now die later</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Parnet ’87</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"> [famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs 47-51]</span>
Your secret can … off until tomorrow.


==1NC Jackson Vanik== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Momentum for JV repeal now—Obama is ramping up effort </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">The Hill 4-26</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(“House panel aims for June hearing on Russia trade”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/224021-house-panel-aims-for-june-hearing-on-russia-trade-]])</span>

The House Ways … on this issue."

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Plan is massively unpopular – seen as trading off with the Space Launch System</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Bonin, ’11</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> (Grant, June 6, “Human spaceflight for less: the case for smaller launch vehicles, revisited” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1861/1)</span>
While the private … efficiency and simplicity.
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Political capital is key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Frolov, 3-23</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">-‘12 (Vladimir, “Russia Profile Weekly Experts Panel: Will Russia Graduate From the Jackson-Vanik Amendment?” Russia Profile, Factiva)</span>
During the post-Soviet … for Russian democracy.
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Repeal key to relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Gvosdev</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, US Navy War College, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">2-10</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">-’12 (Nikolas, “The Realist Prism: Resetting the US-Russia Reset” World Politics Review, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/11441/the-realist-prism-resetting-the-u-s-russia-reset]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
After a period … idea of the reset.
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Russia relations solve nuclear war and every major impact</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Allison</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Director Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">and Blackwill</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Senior Fellow CFR, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">’11</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Graham and Robert, October 30, “Ten Reasons Why Russia Still Matters” Politico, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.cfr.org/russian-fed/ten-reasons-why-russia-still-matters/p26345]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

That central point … our national interests.


==1NC NASA Adv.== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Cost irrelevant to NASA operations – massive cuts inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Wingo</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">, SpaceRef, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">11-15</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">-’11 (Dennis, “Getting Our Priorities Straight: Setting the SLS Vs Propellant Depot Argument In a Greater Context” http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewnews.rss.html?id=1590)</span>
In October 2011 … missions to nowhere.

==1NC Launches Adv.== 
You make spaceflight more expensive
Hopkins, Engineer at Lockheed Martin’s Human Space Flight Advanced Programs, ‘9 (Josh- Editor of AIAA’s International Reference Guide to Space Launch Systems, August 17, “Doubts about depots” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1447/1)
Comparing costs of … LEO cargo delivery.

==1NC Leadership== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Won’t cause cooperation – no one will use it</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Coppinger, ‘8</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> (Rob, November 19, “The fantasy of orbital fuel depots” http://www.flightglobal.com/blogs/hyperbola/2008/11/the-fantasy-of-orbital-fuel-de.html)</span>
So, we know … government programme.

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Doesn’t solve hegemony – DOD can’t use it</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Zegler and Kutter</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">, United Launch Alliance, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">’10</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> (Frank and Bernard, August, “Evolving to a Depot-Based Space Transportation Architecture” AIAA SPACE 2010 Conference & Exposition, http://www.ulalaunch.com/site/docs/publications/DepotBasedTransportationArchitecture2010.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Are depots useful …</span> to heavy objects.

==1NC Solvency== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Propellant depots fail – no concrete mechanism for refueling or orbit</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Hopkins</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">, Engineer at Lockheed Martin’s Human Space Flight Advanced Programs, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">‘9</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> (Josh- Editor of AIAA’s International Reference Guide to Space Launch Systems, August 17, “Doubts about depots” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1447/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">Concept of operations</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">…for each mission?</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">NASA says no – afraid of another big mission</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Foust</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">, Editor of Space Review, ‘</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">8</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;"> (Jeff, May 12, “Propellant depots: an idea whose time has (almost) come” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1127/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">A</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;"> bigger </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">challenge</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;"> … to private industry</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">.</span>

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]