If anyone wants to learn about Hegel, feel free to email me. **<span style="line-height: 1.5;">If you're from a small program, I especially would like to help you</span>**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">. My email is</span> **<span style="line-height: 1.5;">salimdam@gmail.com. </span>**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">I omitted analytics and posted longer versions of the cards to make up for those gaps in explanation.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Long Hegel NC:</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I define retribution. Basik:[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 4pt;">Retribution and Rehabilitation Defined Apart from three strikes, most</span> __retributi[on]__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">ve punishment systems are however</span> __[is] based on the notion of proportionality. That is the accepted convention since the__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">age of Beccaria. He and other </span>__eighteenth century__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">reformers advocated that punishment should always be 'the minimum possible in the given circumstances, proportionate to the crime, and determined by the law.' His classical theory of proportionate, retributive sentencing challenged the 'arbitrary and barbarous' system of punishment practised by European despots through the Middle Ages. It has formed the basis for all European sentencing systems until today, and was certainly an improvement on what went before, under the 'bloody codes'.</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I value morality. Self-actualization is the only necessary facet of the self and is the necessary and sufficient basis for morality. It is the unconditioned end. Wood1 writes:[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span></span>
__Hegel's self-actualization theory__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">represents a distinctive type of ethical theory, different from both deontological and teleological theories.9 It begins neither with an imperative, law, or principle to be followed nor with the idea of an end to be achieved. Its starting point is the conception of a certain self or identity to be exercised or actualized, to be embodied and expressed in action. The theory</span> __selects the actions__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">to be</span> __performed and__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> the</span> __ends__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">to be</span> __pursued because they are the actions and ends of that kind of self.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">In such a theory, laws and commandments owe their force to the fact that they turn out to be principles which the right sort of self would follow.</span> __Ends owe their desirability to the fact that they turn out to be the ends which that sort of self would pursue__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">. In such a theory, it is misleading to consider "self-actualization" as the end or goal of the self. If the self is successful, it does actualize itself in doing the right things and pursuing the right ends; but the content of this "self- actualization" cannot be specified independently of those actions and ends. In a theory like Hegel's, "self-actualization" is not to begin with an end with a specifiable content to which such a self directs its efforts. From one point of view, self-actualization is simply a by-product of acting in certain ways, following certain principles and successfully pursuing other ends. But it has the appearance of an end because for a self-actualization theory, these ends have their value and these principles their force because they are the ends and principles of a certain sort of self.10 The starting point of a self-actualization theory is</span> __[Thus] a certain [theory]__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">concept </span>__of what human beings are__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">- a concept that </span>__cannot__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">ultimately</span> __be divorced from the practical self-concern that belongs__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">necessarily </span>__to being a self.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">Hegel sees this as the point of the classical injunction Gnothi seauton ("Know thyself") (EG § 377)* 1° </span>__seeking__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">the</span> __[this] knowledge__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">demanded by this injunction, it </span>__is bound to be inappropriate to try to draw any ultimate distinction between "facts" and "values," or between theoretical and practical rationality. Asking with self-concern what it is to be human is the same thing as asking what sort of human being one is to be; it is asking about__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">what Hegel calls one's Bestimm- ung - </span>__about one's nature and simultaneously about one's vocation.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">This is the reason Hegel's own account of "subjective spirit" (of the human individual) in the Encyclopedia moves from a discussion of embodiment (EG §§ 388-412) through consciousness and reason (EG §§ 413-439) to theoreti­ cal spirit (EG §§ 440-468) and ends with practical spirit (EG §§ 469-480) defining itself as free spirit (EG §§ 481-482). Hegel tells us that what have traditionally been thought of as the self's different "faculties" are not so much diverse capacities or activities, as different (and more or less adequate) conceptions of mind or spirit itself and as a whole, or stages in its development toward self-knowledge (EG §§ 379,A, 380). </span>__The "practical spirit" or "will" therefore includes the theoretical, because the basis of theoretical concern is practical concern, concern with what I am and am to be__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">(PR § 4A). </span>__And the outcome of this concern is the awareness that what I am is freedom, that is, a being whose vocation is to know itself and actualize its knowledge of itself__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">(£G§48i). It is the development of this simultaneously theoretical and practical self- concept of the human individual in the Philosophy of Right which we have sketched in §§ 5-8 of this chapter. We have seen that the scaffolding of the Philosophy of Right is the developing image of the free will or self-knowing and self-concerned human agent, conceiving of itself successively, ever more concretely and adequately, first as a "person" possessing abstract rights, then as a "subject" with a moral vocation, then in the concrete spheres of ethical life as a family member, then a burgher, and finally as a citizen. </span>__To each of these self-images there correspond determinate__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> activities, prin­ ciples to be followed, and</span> __ends to be pursued and achieved__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">, either individu­ ally (as in the "abstract" spheres of abstract right and morality) or together with others in the context of determinate social institutions (as in the sphere of ethical life, in the family, civil society, and the state). The principles and ends, however, are </span>__seen as binding and valuable__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> because they are ways in which the free will actualizes the various aspects or moments of its self- knowledge or identity. That is what Hegel means when he calls the system of "right" a system in which "freedom is its own object" and describes Idea or self-actualized free will as "the free will that wills the free will" (PR § 27).</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Societies’ enabling of self-actualization is thus crucial. Farnham:[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span></span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial;">We are engaged in a project of making a world [into a home] </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">for us to live in. This project has two main elements. One is essentially material: </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;">the[se] activities [need]</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">we engage in</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> __change[s in]__ </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">or rearrange </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;">resources people have [which requires]</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">at their disposal to live their lives as they see ﬁt. In a modern liberal state, the bulk of this construction of a shared material world takes place through market </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;">interaction</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">s, with some needs being addressed through governmental channels. But</span> __<span style="font-family: Arial;">humans are essentially social </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">beings,</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;"> and a</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">world or</span> __<span style="font-family: Arial;">home [must have]</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">for them is not just one that provides basic necessities for carrying out projects. It is also one where</span> __<span style="font-family: Arial;">mutual relations of acknowledgement</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">exist. By acknowledgement, I mean being known to others as an agent who has equal standing and his or her own life to live, along with the knowledge that others know and honor this. It is one thing to know the truth about one’s value as a person, another for other people to know the truth about your value, and yet another to know that others publicly acknowledge that truth through what they do and say. Imagine a slave consoling herself with the fact that her violators hold false views about her worth. Or, imagine her consoling herself with the thought that they do know her value as a human being, but do not act on that knowledge.</span> __<span style="font-family: Arial;">We don</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">o</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;">t just care about knowing </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">the truth</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;"> that we</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;"> a</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;">re valuable, we want others to know </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">this too, and we want this knowledge to be recognized publicly.</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;"> [so] We [can]</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">want to be able to</span> __<span style="font-family: Arial;">act [as such] </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 4pt;">on this understanding, and for other people to act on it also. The person who simply tries to be consoled with the mere knowledge that she is valuable does not realize her telos as an agent, to act and to have her contributions and autonomy acknowledged by others.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #1a1a18; display: block; text-align: left;">Also, self-actualization demands third-person recognition since it verifies the process. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #1a1a18; display: block; text-align: left;">Thus, the standard is enforcing abstract right, which is defined as the state where all citizens can exercise self-actualization.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The contention is all analytics about the rest of society subjectively wanting verification.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Short Hegel NC:</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I value morality. Self-actualization is the only necessary facet of the self and is the necessary and sufficient basis for morality. It is the unconditioned end. Wood1 writes:</span></span>
__Hegel's self-actualization theory__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">represents a distinctive type of ethical theory, different from both deontological and teleological theories.9 It begins neither with an imperative, law, or principle to be followed nor with the idea of an end to be achieved. Its starting point is the conception of a certain self or identity to be exercised or actualized, to be embodied and expressed in action. The theory</span> __selects the actions__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">to be</span> __performed and__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> the</span> __ends__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">to be</span> __pursued because they are the actions and ends of that kind of self.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">In such a theory, laws and commandments owe their force to the fact that they turn out to be principles which the right sort of self would follow.</span> __Ends owe their desirability to the fact that they turn out to be the ends which that sort of self would pursue__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">. In such a theory, it is misleading to consider "self-actualization" as the end or goal of the self. If the self is successful, it does actualize itself in doing the right things and pursuing the right ends; but the content of this "self- actualization" cannot be specified independently of those actions and ends. In a theory like Hegel's, "self-actualization" is not to begin with an end with a specifiable content to which such a self directs its efforts. From one point of view, self-actualization is simply a by-product of acting in certain ways, following certain principles and successfully pursuing other ends. But it has the appearance of an end because for a self-actualization theory, these ends have their value and these principles their force because they are the ends and principles of a certain sort of self.10 The starting point of a self-actualization theory is</span> __[Thus] a certain [theory]__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">concept </span>__of what human beings are__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">- a concept that </span>__cannot__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">ultimately</span> __be divorced from the practical self-concern that belongs__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">necessarily </span>__to being a self.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">Hegel sees this as the point of the classical injunction Gnothi seauton ("Know thyself") (EG § 377)* 1° </span>__seeking__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">the</span> __[this] knowledge__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">demanded by this injunction, it </span>__is bound to be inappropriate to try to draw any ultimate distinction between "facts" and "values," or between theoretical and practical rationality. Asking with self-concern what it is to be human is the same thing as asking what sort of human being one is to be; it is asking about__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">what Hegel calls one's Bestimm- ung - </span>__about one's nature and simultaneously about one's vocation.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">This is the reason Hegel's own account of "subjective spirit" (of the human individual) in the Encyclopedia moves from a discussion of embodiment (EG §§ 388-412) through consciousness and reason (EG §§ 413-439) to theoreti­ cal spirit (EG §§ 440-468) and ends with practical spirit (EG §§ 469-480) defining itself as free spirit (EG §§ 481-482). Hegel tells us that what have traditionally been thought of as the self's different "faculties" are not so much diverse capacities or activities, as different (and more or less adequate) conceptions of mind or spirit itself and as a whole, or stages in its development toward self-knowledge (EG §§ 379,A, 380). </span>__The "practical spirit" or "will" therefore includes the theoretical, because the basis of theoretical concern is practical concern, concern with what I am and am to be__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">(PR § 4A). </span>__And the outcome of this concern is the awareness that what I am is freedom, that is, a being whose vocation is to know itself and actualize its knowledge of itself__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">(£G§48i). It is the development of this simultaneously theoretical and practical self- concept of the human individual in the Philosophy of Right which we have sketched in §§ 5-8 of this chapter. We have seen that the scaffolding of the Philosophy of Right is the developing image of the free will or self-knowing and self-concerned human agent, conceiving of itself successively, ever more concretely and adequately, first as a "person" possessing abstract rights, then as a "subject" with a moral vocation, then in the concrete spheres of ethical life as a family member, then a burgher, and finally as a citizen. </span>__To each of these self-images there correspond determinate__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> activities, prin­ ciples to be followed, and</span> __ends to be pursued and achieved__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">, either individu­ ally (as in the "abstract" spheres of abstract right and morality) or together with others in the context of determinate social institutions (as in the sphere of ethical life, in the family, civil society, and the state). The principles and ends, however, are </span>__seen as binding and valuable__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> because they are ways in which the free will actualizes the various aspects or moments of its self- knowledge or identity. That is what Hegel means when he calls the system of "right" a system in which "freedom is its own object" and describes Idea or self-actualized free will as "the free will that wills the free will" (PR § 27).</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #1a1a18; display: block; text-align: left;">Thus, the standard is enforcing abstract right, which is defined as the state where the abstract conception of right is rationally aligned with the material world.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I contend retribution does that.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Crime does not exist in abstract right, so its positive existence must be crushed in the material world. It cannot be molded into something else as rehab does. Stillman:[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Hegel's idea of crime as a negation, which must be annulled, derives from the self- contradictory will of the crime. The coercion of crime shows itself to be "directly self- destructive," because the coercion shows itself to be an expression of a person's will (the criminal's) which negates the property and freedom of a person's will (the victim's) (92). For the criminal committing the crime is, after all, a free person (an unthinking animal cannot commit a crime); as a free person, he participates in the universality of personality, the free will.</span> __By coercing__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">, of his own free will, </span>__another[‘s]__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">person's</span> __free will, the criminal is denying not only that particular person's free will, but also the free will of__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">that person as a person, i.e.,</span> __of all persons. For all persons are equal in terms of__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">what essentially defies them as persons: </span>__their free will__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">and rights; "in respect of their person- ality persons are equal," indeed "identical" (49R; Hotfaneister, 333). To attack the free will and rights of any person is therefore to deny that all persons (including the criminal, who is a person) have free will and rights (Hoffmeister, 367). Crime, then, is a contradictory, directly self-destructive act, in that it is the will of a free person which negates the existence of free personality, free will, and right.7 </span>__A crime is a self-contradictory assertion; it is also an incorrect assertion.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">By committing</span> __a crime,__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">the criminal person asserts that no persons--not the criminal, nor the victim, nor any other person--have rights. In a sense, it</span> __is an assertion, by a person living in a world of persons, that persons do not exist. But this__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">assertion</span> __is not correct__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">: persons with rights do exist, and</span> __indeed both criminal and victim remain as persons with rights before, during, and after the crime__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">. That persons with rights exist is evident from either a logical or an historical point of view. In terms of logic, persons earned and actualized their rights to life, liberty, and property in the prior sections of "Abstract Right"; these earned rights exist, and, as logically prior to the criminal's assertion, show his denial of rights to be inaccurate. Similarly, but in historical rather than logical terms, the historical development of Western Europe has produced men who have "an ever- present sense that they are not and cannot be slaves; if they are made slaves, if the decision as regards their property rests with an arbitrary will.., they would find the very substance of their life outraged.''s The historical development of the right to life, liberty, and property is both prior to a contemporary crime and stronger than any isolated person's crime; thus, in historical terms, the criminal's denial of fights is in- accurate. The crime, as a self-contradictory, inaccurate assertion, is "inherently . . . nothing at all" (97). This does not mean that Hegel thought that the results of crime---the in- jured person, the stolen property---did not exist; he was well aware that "the infringe- ment of right as right [crime] is something that happens and has positive existence in the external world" (97). "A crime alters something in some way, and the thing has its existence in this alteration" (97A). Furthermore, what has been done in the world of existence cannot be undone, although restitution of equivalent value may be sought in a civil suit (98). It is not in terms of particular existents in the external world, but in terms of right that Hegel means that crime is nothing at all. </span>__Conceptually crime is nothing at all; it does not exist; as a contradictory and incorrect assertion about rights__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">, it disappears as it is made.</span> __But,__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">as Hegel emphasizes, that which is conceptual must be realized in existence as well;</span> __this essence of crime as null must be actualized in the objective world.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">"The manifestation of [crime's] nullity is the appearance.... in the external world, of the annihilation of the infringement," the annulling of crime (97). What is in substance null is thus also annulled in the world of existence. </span>__In order for crime to be annulled, its positive existence must be negated.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">But the injury of crime, from the point of view of the injured persons and of other persons, is only something negative--a denial of rights; "</span>__the sole positive existence which the__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">injury [the </span>__crime] possesses is__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">that it is </span>__the particular will of the criminal"__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">(99). Thus, to injure the particular will of the criminal is to negate the negation of right, to annul the crime, and to restore the right; </span>__with the injury of the particular will of the criminal, the positive existence of the crime no longer exists, the infringement of right is annulled, and right is restored.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">Conceptually, crime is nothing at all; with the annulment of crime in the objective world, crime's nullity is manifest. Criminals are punished in order to ratify in the objective world the truth within the conceptual world: that crime is null. Thus, in civil society, where abstract rights become concrete by being posited as laws and where men are still equal in respect to their personality, crime is the breaking of the law and implicitly the assertion that the law does not exist as right and binding. But the laws continue to exist, to protect men (including the criminal), and to guide human behavior; the criminal's assertion thus remains self-contradictory and wrong, and crime is a nullity in terms of law. To punish the criminal is simply to indicate, in the world of existence, what is true in the actuality of laws: the nullity of the act. </span>__To annul the crime is not optional; it is required. Otherwise,__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">the crime and its im- plicit denial of rights--would be held as valid (99). In abstract right, if the rights of one person are allowed to be negated by crime, then--</span>__since persons are equal in rights--all persons lose their rights [in the abstract right]. In general, even outside the Hegelian context,__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">it holds that, when rights are not enforced and denials of them not refuted, the </span>__rights fall into disuse and disappear; rights thus must be enforced and upheld by annulling wrong.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">And, since all persons are equal, persons who are criminals must all have their crimes annulled;~ so it is necessary that all crimes be annulled. </span>__Hegel justifies__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">annulment of crime in </span>__retributi[on]__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">ve terms. The justification of the penalty involved in the retribution is determined in proportion to the offense: "</span>__since as existent a crime is something determinate__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">in its scope both qualitatively and quantitatively [e.g., one stolen car, theft of $1,000],</span> __its negation as existent is similarly determinate__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">" (101).</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Also, this turns every aff since it’s a violation of having rights under any ethical system, so it’s 100% magnitude. According to Stillman, everyone's rights are violated (since we're all equal under abstract right) and those rights could be contextualized by any ethical theory, so 100% magnitude violation.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">NR Weighing:</span>
**First,** I outweighs on scope since it affects the whole society since everyone is equal under abstract right, so permitting one violation is a violation of everyone. This outweighs not permitting the criminal to self-actualize. **Second,** <span style="line-height: 1.5;">only retribution uses purely the will to punish the criminal and does not already assume some other version of self-actualization. Rehab would force the criminal to become educated which means the criminal no longer gets to choose what to self-actualize into; the government is forcing him/her to be indoctrinated/educated/whateva. **Third,** even if the aff can co-opt certain benefits of negating, rehabilitation is still one-step removed from intending to correct abstract right in that manner. Thus I have a higher strength of link to the framework since it's means-based.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Last:</span>
Hella thanks to Erik Baker for helping me with Hegel last year at NSD (he's such a fucking awesome guy and teacher) and Evanston for sending me the Farnham cite. It's a lucid article for why Hegel negates.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[#htmldiff3]]<span style="background-color: #aaffaa; color: #008800; text-decoration: inherit;">[[media type="custom" key="21848918"]]</span></span>
----
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]][[http://www.lawlibrary.ie/viewdoc.asp?Docid=144]] Bacik</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] Allen Wood “Hegel’s Ethical Thought” 1990 Cambridge University Press pg. 32</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]][[http://dfarnham.myweb.uga.edu/Hegelian%20Theory%20of%20Retribution.pdf]] Daniel Farnham</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 4pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]] Peter Stillman </span>**<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Hegel's Idea of Punishment </span>**<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Stillman, Peter G.Journal of the History of Philosophy, Volume 14, Number 2, April 1976, pp. 169-182 (Article) Published by The Johns Hopkins University Press</span></span></span>