[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC JV State== 
===Contention 1 is Econ=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Econ Low now – GDP and unemployment – predictive and most qualified evidence</span>
Pollin 2-7 Professor of Economics at the University of Massachusetts<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (‘US Economy "Stuck in the Mud"’; He is the founding co-Director of the Political Economy Research Institute (PERI). His research centers on macroeconomics, conditions for low-wage workers in the US and globally, the analysis of financial markets, and the economics of building a clean-energy economy in the US. His latest book is Back to Full Employment. Other books include: A Measure of Fairness: the Economics of Living Wages and Minimum Wages in the United States, and Contours of Descent: US Economic Fractures and the Landscape of Global Austerity; [[http://www.truth-out.org/video/item/14408-us-economy-stuck-in-the-mud]]; Kiyoshi)</span>
Well, I think there were two really key statistics about the state of the
AND
no growth and rising unemployment 3.5 years after the recession ended.¶

Economic decline causes war – best studies prove
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Royal 10</span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is how
AND
Several notable contributions follow<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's
AND
the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown.
Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of
AND
on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4
Third, others have considered
AND
and lead to external tensions.
Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. “Diversionary theory
AND
popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force.
In summary, recent economic scholarship
AND
should be considered ancillary to those

We solve 2 internal links.

First, NextGen generates airline sector recovery through jobs and business efficiency
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calio 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, “Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future,” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future]</span>
With broad consensus in the business community and organized labor that Congress should work with
AND
successfully and support the U.S. in our national ambition to win

The U.S. aviation industry is key to the economy
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Trupo 6/21</span>
Mary Trupo, <span style="color: #222222;"> International Trade Administration's Director of the Office of Public Affairs, International Trade Administration, “Aerospace Industry is Critical Contributor to U.S. Economy According to Obama Trade Official at Paris Air Show,” 6/21/12.</span>
PARIS – Francisco Sánchez, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, addressed national and international groups at the 2011 Paris Air Show to reinforce the President’s National Export Initiative (NEI) and support the U.S. aerospace industry.
“The U.S. aerospace industry
AND
small and medium-sized firms.

Second, plan injects money into the economy
**NEXA 11** (Nexa Advisors, A Private Aerospace Consultant Company “NextGen Equipage Fund” April) *NextGen Equipage Fund is loan guarantees fund requesting federal backing [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]] (Pitman)
In an important recent study, “The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the
AND
and many of the economic and job benefits identified herein will be lost permanently

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Infrastructure Investments sustain and save the economy in a cycle.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">STIGLITZ, Nobel Prize Winner and Professor at Columbia in 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012]</span>
Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall
AND
decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.

===Contention 2 is Hegemony=== 
Chinese aviation is growing now – It’s indicative of greater trends of maturity
**Dawson. 2012.**
Kelly Dawson. 2012-06-01. http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/weekly/2012-06/01/content_15441620.htm
Beyond standard economic indicators of prosperity, certain industries can be seen as a microcosm
AND
in the US, with a target of 4,500 by 2016.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Implementing NextGen on a priority basis is necessary to US leadership </span>
Aerospace Industries Associations 12 (WHITE PAPER ON ENSURING JPDO SUCCESS, 4/09/12 [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_ensure-jpdo.pdf]])
The administration must move forward quickly with the investment necessary to implement the next generation
AND
broad scale will grow, resulting in significant negative impacts on the economy.

Airline growth directly boosts Aerospace industry sales
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GOMEZ et al 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ben Hur Gomez, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, undergraduate at Harvard University pursuing a degree in quantitative finance through the statistics department, and an economics degree 2. Zachs Analyst 3. worked at Wikinvest for 3.5 years as a content writer, industry analyst, and summer intern. Graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and a secondary field in environmental science and public policy “Dependence on key customers”, http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)]</span>
Demand in the aerospace market PCP’s commercial sales depend substantially on the production rates of
AND
the course of the recovery in the aerospace cycle and likely impact PCP.

We isolate three impact scenarios:

First, US aerospace leadership is key to air power and conventional deterrence that prevents Chinese miscalculation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eaglen</span> Research Fellow for National Security <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and Szaszdi 09 </span>
Mackenzie M. Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security and Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a former Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, 7-7-09, [“The Growing Air Power Fighter Gap: Implications for U.S. National Security,” Heritage Foundation, Produced by the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg2295.cfm] E. Liu
China. China has ordered an estimated 76 Su30MKK Flanker-Gs and can produce
AND
crews and an adequate pool of replacements and well-trained new pilots.

Aggression escalates --- miscalculation leads to nuclear war.
Fisher, 10/31/2011 (Max – associate editor at the Atlantic, 5 Most Likely Ways the U.S. and China Could Spark Accidental Nuclear War, The Atlantic, p. http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/10/5-most-likely-ways-the-us-and-china-could-spark-accidental-nuclear-war/247616/#slide1)
After 10 years of close but unproductive talks, the U.S. and
AND
with China happens to have a defense treaty with the U.S.?
Second, Strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">National Aerospace Week 10</span> (September 18, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]) National Aerospace Week
The beginning of a new decade presents the defense industry with challenges that aren’t
AND
to ensure that a technology and manufacturing base exists to develop new ones.

Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction and multipolarity is relatively worse
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Barnett 11</span> (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]
It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of
AND
the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

And, US __pursuit__ of hegemony is inevitable – Makes all their turns inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calleo</span>, Director – European Studies Program and Professor @ SAIS, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘10</span>
(David P, “American Decline Revisited,” //Survival//, 52:4, 215 – 227)
The history of the past two decades suggests that adjusting to a plural world is
AND
turns the dollar into an imperial instrument that threatens the world with inflation.
Third, the transition independently causes extinction
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, “After America”, Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)</span>
For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single
AND
policy -- or start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Plan</span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the infrastructure for Next Generation Air Transportation System in the United States. </span>**
Contention 3 is Solvency
The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. [June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]]</span>
Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines To
AND
planning are all needed in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.
Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is
AND
that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.
Jetblue is doing NextGen but is the only one- NonUniques all DAs.
**WFTV.com 12** (September 20, 2012; Jet Blue to test new flying system at Orlando International Airport; http://www.wftv.com/news/news/local/jet-blue-test-new-flying-system-orlando-internatio/nSGmg/
ORLANDO, Fla. — Airline and government officials announced major changes coming to Orlando International, September 20, 2012) Sood
Airport on Thursday. ¶ Jet Blue is testing a new system to track planes
AND
¶ It would also fly more than 5 million fewer miles per year.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The refusal to engage in traditional politics is an abdication of social responsibility that makes all social crises inevitable and leads to extinction</span>**
**Boggs, 1997** (Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6, http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fulltext.pdf)
The decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America poses a series
AND
of those universal, collective interests that had vanished from civil society. 75

==1AC Wake== 

===Contention 1 is Econ=== 

**US recovery is anemic and slacking in key areas like jobs, consumer confidence and wages.**

Wall Street Journal, 8-15-2012

~~[AP, US economic recovery is weakest since World War II, August 21, 2012, http://online.wsj.com/article/AP1cb26ac50ff4411abf700d0c8f25bcf4.html~~] Kal

The recession that ended three years ago this summer has been followed by the feeblest

AND

School of Business: "No one is sure what will actually happen.

**We solve 2 internal links.**

**First, NextGen generates airline sector recovery through jobs and business efficiency**

Calio 11

~~[Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, "Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future," http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future~~]

With broad consensus in the business community and organized labor that Congress should work with

AND

successfully and support the U.S. in our national ambition to win

**The U.S. aviation industry is key to the economy**

Trupo 6/21

Mary Trupo, International Trade Administration~’s Director of the Office of Public Affairs, International Trade Administration, "Aerospace Industry is Critical Contributor to U.S. Economy According to Obama Trade Official at Paris Air Show," 6/21/12.

PARIS – Francisco Sánchez, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, addressed national and international groups at the 2011 Paris Air Show to reinforce the President~’s National Export Initiative (NEI) and support the U.S. aerospace industry.

AND

The U.S. aerospace industry ranks among the most competitive in the world, boasting a positive trade balance of %2444.1 billion – the largest trade surplus of any U.S. manufacturing industry. It directly sustains about 430,000 jobs, and indirectly supports more than 700,000 additional jobs. Ninety-one percent of U.S. exporters of aerospace products are small and medium-sized firms.

**Second, plan injects money into the economy**

NEXA 11 (Nexa Advisors, A Private Aerospace Consultant Company "NextGen Equipage Fund" April) *NextGen Equipage Fund is loan guarantees fund requesting federal backing [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf-http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]] (Pitman)

In an important recent study, "The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the

AND

and many of the economic and job benefits identified herein will be lost permanently

**Infrastructure Investments sustain and save the economy in a cycle.**

STIGLITZ, Nobel Prize Winner and Professor at Columbia in 12

~~[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists~’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012~~]

Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall

AND

decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.

**Econ decline independently leads to extinction**

Kemp 10 (Geoffrey, Director of Regional Strategic Programs – Nixon Center and Former Director of the Middle East Arms Control Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia~’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-234)

The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first

AND

expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet~’s population.
===Contention 2 is Hegemony=== 
**Chinese aviation is growing now – It~’s indicative of greater trends of maturity**

Dawson. 2012.

Kelly Dawson. 2012-06-01. http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/weekly/2012-06/01/content_15441620.htm
Beyond standard economic indicators of prosperity, certain industries can be seen as a microcosm

AND

in the US, with a target of 4,500 by 2016.

**Implementing NextGen on a priority basis is necessary to ensure airline growth, US leadership, and economic stability**

Aerospace Industries Associations 12 (WHITE PAPER ON ENSURING JPDO SUCCESS, 4/09/12 [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_ensure-jpdo.pdf-http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_ensure-jpdo.pdf]])

The administration must move forward quickly with the investment necessary to implement the next generation

AND

broad scale will grow, resulting in significant negative impacts on the economy.

**Airline growth directly boosts Aerospace industry sales**

GOMEZ et al 12 ~~[Ben Hur Gomez, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, undergraduate at Harvard University pursuing a degree in quantitative finance through the statistics department, and an economics degree 2. Zachs Analyst 3. worked at Wikinvest for 3.5 years as a content writer, industry analyst, and summer intern. Graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and a secondary field in environmental science and public policy "Dependence on key customers", http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)~~]

Demand in the aerospace market PCP~’s commercial sales depend substantially on the production rates of

AND

the course of the recovery in the aerospace cycle and likely impact PCP.

**We isolate three impact scenarios:**

**First, US aerospace leadership is key to air power and conventional deterrence that prevents Chinese miscalculation**

Eaglen Research Fellow for National Security and Szaszdi 09

Mackenzie M. Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security and Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a former Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, 7-7-09, ~~["The Growing Air Power Fighter Gap: Implications for U.S. National Security," Heritage Foundation, Produced by the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg2295.cfm~~] E. Liu

China. China has ordered an estimated 76 Su30MKK Flanker-Gs and can produce

AND

crews and an adequate pool of replacements and well-trained new pilots.

**Aggression escalates —- miscalculation leads to nuclear war.**

Fisher, 10/31/2011 (Max – associate editor at the Atlantic, 5 Most Likely Ways the U.S. and China Could Spark Accidental Nuclear War, The Atlantic, p. http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/10/5-most-likely-ways-the-us-and-china-could-spark-accidental-nuclear-war/247616/~~%23slide1)

After 10 years of close but unproductive talks, the U.S. and

AND

with China happens to have a defense treaty with the U.S.?

**Second, Strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg**

National Aerospace Week 10 (September 18, "Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America," [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf-http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]) National Aerospace Week

The beginning of a new decade presents the defense industry with challenges that aren~’t

AND

to ensure that a technology and manufacturing base exists to develop new ones.

**Hegemony solves nuke war and extinctio**n

Barnett 11 (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis %26 Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, "The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads," March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads-http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]

It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of

AND

the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

**And, US pursuit of hegemony is inevitable – Makes all their turns inevitable**

Calleo, Director – European Studies Program and Professor @ SAIS, ~’10

(David P, "American Decline Revisited," Survival, 52:4, 215 – 227)

The history of the past two decades suggests that adjusting to a plural world is

AND

turns the dollar into an imperial instrument that threatens the world with inflation.

**Third, the transition independently causes extinction**

Brzezinski 12(Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, "After America", Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic-http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)

For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single

AND

policy — or start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.

===Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially invest in the infrastructure for Next Generation Air Transportation System in the United States.**

===Contention 3 is Solvency=== 

**The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.**

ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. ~~[June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html~~%23top-http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html]]~~]

Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines To

AND

planning are all needed in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.

**Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates**

Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]

The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is

AND

that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.

**Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers**

Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]

Most US operators have been less than enthusiastic about paying for NextGen equipage because the

AND

not been enough to counter the continuing risk across the larger industry.37

**Plan overcomes 4 hurdles to implementation – Uncertainty, FAA delivery, getting money, and equipage. IT fiats or incentivizes all of those**

Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]

Conclusion

NextGen is faced with four major hurdles:

Uncertainty Regarding NextGen~’s Benefits. These is still disagreement among industry experts regarding to what extent NextGen can improve aviation. This is one of the reasons behind the failure to make a sufficient business case for operators to invest in on-board equipage.

Uncertainty Regarding the FAA~’s Ability to Deliver. Even though a lack of strong political

AND

This uncertainty exacerbates the lack of incentives for operators to invest in equipage.

Securing funding for infrastructure. The AATF has relied on increasing general fund contributions in

AND

equitable long term funding mechanism for FAA~’s portion of NextGen~’s capital investment needs.

Equipage. Operators have shown little progress towards equipping their aircraft. This is primarily

AND

will eventually have to invest in equipage particularly if there are benefits involved.
==1AC Hooch== 

===Contention 1 is Econ=== 

**Econ low now – growth data proves**
AP 9/27<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Associated Press, US economy grew at 1.3 percent rate in April-June quarter, weaker than previous estimate, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/us-economy-grew-at-13-percent-rate-in-april-june-quarter-weaker-than-previous-estimate/2012/09/27/d51062c6-08a5-11e2-9eea-333857f6a7bd_story.html-http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/us-economy-grew-at-13-percent-rate-in-april-june-quarter-weaker-than-previous-estimate/2012/09/27/d51062c6-08a5-11e2-9eea-333857f6a7bd_story.html]] , 9/27/12) </span>
The growth rate was lowered from a previous estimate of 1.7 percent,
AND
expect unemployment will stay around 8 percent for the rest of this year.

**We solve 2 internal links.**

**First, NextGen generates airline sector recovery through jobs and business efficiency**
Calio 11
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">~~[Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, "Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future," http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future~~]</span>
With broad consensus in the business community and organized labor that Congress should work with
AND
successfully and support the U.S. in our national ambition to win

**The U.S. aviation industry is key to the economy**
Trupo 6/21
Mary Trupo, <span style="color: #222222;"> International Trade Administration~’s Director of the Office of Public Affairs, International Trade Administration, "Aerospace Industry is Critical Contributor to U.S. Economy According to Obama Trade Official at Paris Air Show," 6/21/12.</span>
PARIS – Francisco Sánchez, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, addressed national and international groups at the 2011 Paris Air Show to reinforce the President~’s National Export Initiative (NEI) and support the U.S. aerospace industry.
AND
The U.S. aerospace industry ranks among the most competitive in the world, boasting a positive trade balance of %2444.1 billion – the largest trade surplus of any U.S. manufacturing industry. It directly sustains about 430,000 jobs, and indirectly supports more than 700,000 additional jobs. Ninety-one percent of U.S. exporters of aerospace products are small and medium-sized firms.

**Second, plan injects money into the economy**
NEXA 11 (Nexa Advisors, A Private Aerospace Consultant Company "NextGen Equipage Fund" April) NextGen Equipage Fund is loan guarantees fund requesting federal backing [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf-http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]] (Pitman)
In an important recent study, "The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the
AND
and many of the economic and job benefits identified herein will be lost permanently

**Infrastructure Investments sustain and save the economy in a cycle.**
STIGLITZ, Nobel Prize Winner and Professor at Columbia in 12
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">~~[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists~’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012~~]</span>
Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall
AND
decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.

**Econ decline independently leads to extinction**
Kemp 10 (Geoffrey, Director of Regional Strategic Programs – Nixon Center and Former Director of the Middle East Arms Control Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia~’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-234)
The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first
AND
expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet~’s population.

===Contention 2 is Hegemony=== 

**Chinese aviation is growing now – It~’s indicative of greater trends of maturity**
Dawson. 2012.
Kelly Dawson. 2012-06-01. http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/weekly/2012-06/01/content_15441620.htm
Beyond standard economic indicators of prosperity, certain industries can be seen as a microcosm
AND
in the US, with a target of 4,500 by 2016.

**Implementing NextGen on a priority basis is necessary to ensure airline growth, US leadership, and economic stability**
Aerospace Industries Associations 12 (WHITE PAPER ON ENSURING JPDO SUCCESS, 4/09/12 [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_ensure-jpdo.pdf-http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_ensure-jpdo.pdf]])
The administration must move forward quickly with the investment necessary to implement the next generation
AND
broad scale will grow, resulting in significant negative impacts on the economy.

**Airline growth directly boosts Aerospace industry sales**
GOMEZ et al 12 ~~[Ben Hur Gomez, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, undergraduate at Harvard University pursuing a degree in quantitative finance through the statistics department, and an economics degree 2. Zachs Analyst 3. worked at Wikinvest for 3.5 years as a content writer, industry analyst, and summer intern. Graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and a secondary field in environmental science and public policy "Dependence on key customers", http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)~~]
Demand in the aerospace market PCP~’s commercial sales depend substantially on the production rates of
AND
the course of the recovery in the aerospace cycle and likely impact PCP.

**We isolate three impact scenarios:**

**First, US aerospace leadership is key to air power and conventional deterrence that prevents Chinese miscalculation**
Eaglen Research Fellow for National Security and Szaszdi 09
Mackenzie M. Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security and Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a former Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, 7-7-09, ~~["The Growing Air Power Fighter Gap: Implications for U.S. National Security," Heritage Foundation, Produced by the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg2295.cfm~~] E. Liu
China. China has ordered an estimated 76 Su30MKK Flanker-Gs and can produce
AND
crews and an adequate pool of replacements and well-trained new pilots.

**Aggression escalates —- miscalculation leads to nuclear war.**
Fisher, 10/31/2011 (Max – associate editor at the Atlantic, 5 Most Likely Ways the U.S. and China Could Spark Accidental Nuclear War, The Atlantic, p. http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/10/5-most-likely-ways-the-us-and-china-could-spark-accidental-nuclear-war/247616/~~%23slide1)
After 10 years of close but unproductive talks, the U.S. and
AND
with China happens to have a defense treaty with the U.S.?

**Second, Strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg**
National Aerospace Week 10 (September 18, "Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America," [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf-http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]) National Aerospace Week
The beginning of a new decade presents the defense industry with challenges that aren~’t
AND
to ensure that a technology and manufacturing base exists to develop new ones.

**Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction**
Barnett 11 (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis %26 Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, "The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads," March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads-http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]
It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of
AND
the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.


**And, US pursuit of hegemony is inevitable – Makes all their turns inevitable**
Calleo, Director – European Studies Program and Professor @ SAIS, ~’10
(David P, "American Decline Revisited," Survival, 52:4, 215 – 227)
The history of the past two decades suggests that adjusting to a plural world is
AND
turns the dollar into an imperial instrument that threatens the world with inflation.

**Third, the transition independently causes extinction**
Brzezinski 12<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, "After America", Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic-http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)</span>
For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single
AND
policy — or start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Plan</span>
**The United States federal government should substantially invest in the infrastructure for Next Generation Air Transportation System in the United States.**

===Contention 3 is Solvency=== 

**The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.**
ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. ~~[June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html~~%23top-http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html]]~~]
Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines To
AND
planning are all needed in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.

**Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates**
Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]
The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is
AND
that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.

**JetBlue is doing NextGen but no other airline company is; Non-uniques all DAs**
Flier 12(article from Cranky Flier, Jet Blue has already implemented the plan and is saving billions of dollars on fuel) June 21, 2012. [[http://crankyflier.com/2012/06/21/jetblue-will-save-fuel-shorten-flight-times-at-jfk-thanks-to-nextgen/////Sufiyan-http://crankyflier.com/2012/06/21/jetblue-will-save-fuel-shorten-flight-times-at-jfk-thanks-to-nextgen/////Sufiyan]]
You always hear people talking about NextGen when it comes to air traffic control.
AND
capacity in the system. We need more of this to happen yesterday.

**Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers**
Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]
Most US operators have been less than enthusiastic about paying for NextGen equipage because the
AND
not been enough to counter the continuing risk across the larger industry.37

**Plan overcomes 4 hurdles to implementation – Uncertainty, FAA delivery, getting money, and equipage. IT fiats or incentivizes all of those**
Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]
Conclusion
NextGen is faced with four major hurdles<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>
Uncertainty Regarding NextGen~’s Benefits<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These is still disagreement among industry experts regarding to what extent NextGen can improve aviation. This is one of the reasons behind the failure to make a sufficient business case for operators to invest in on-board equipage.</span>
Uncertainty Regarding the FAA~’s Ability to Deliver. Even though a lack of strong political
AND
This uncertainty exacerbates the lack of incentives for operators to invest in equipage.
Securing funding for infrastructure. The AATF has relied on increasing general fund contributions in
AND
equitable long term funding mechanism for FAA~’s portion of NextGen~’s capital investment needs.
Equipage. Operators have shown little progress towards equipping their aircraft. This is primarily
AND
will eventually have to invest in equipage particularly if there are benefits involved.

=Negative= 
==Past 2NRs== 
===JV State=== 
Round 1 vs. Woodward GP (Surfacing) - Bonds DA
Round 4 vs. Hooch MC (Port Security) - Politics DA
Round 5 vs. Pace LR (Title XI) - HMT Tax Repeal CP and Politics DA

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]