[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: -webkit-auto;">They read T can't have private spinoff advantages, pic out of </span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Silicone photovoltaics, and UT's species arg (abiotic/biotic life is the same - cosmos/think like a mountain nonsense). And warming turns (ag, disease, bio d, so2 screw). 2nr was anthro - kicked the alt, went for a death/extinction inev arg, and big on framework turns (agency/conservatism).</span><span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: -webkit-auto;">
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: -webkit-auto;">They also read aliens solve warming/energy crisis on case</span>
</span>
=Round 2= 
**Contention 1 is the Status Quo**

**Climate Temperatures in the Atmosphere are Increasing the Prevalence and Severity of Wildfires**
<span class="Underline">**UCS, 2k11** (Union of Concerned Scientists, leading science-based nonprofit working for a healthy environment and a safer world , “Is Global Warming Fueling Increased Wildfire Risks?”, September 6, 2011, Online, [SS])</span>
<span class="Underline">**The effects of global warming …** **conditions grow drier and hotter.**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**This Year’s Wildfire Season Will Be The Most Devastating On Record – The Next Few Months are Crucial**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Miguel, April 11.** (Miguel Llanos, MSNBC staff writer, “'Perfect recipe' for wildfires as season starts early” 2012, Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline">**The U.S. wildfire season**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that typically … its outlook posted on April 1. " </span>

**Space Based Detection Is Key to Mitigating the Impacts of Wildfires** 
**Li et al 2k** (Canada Center for Remote Sensing, “A Review of AVHRR-based Active Fire Detection Algorithms:
Principles, Limitations, and Recommendations”, September 2000, Online, [SS])
**As an important agent of …** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">be well defined and documented. </span>


**Current Space Based Wildfire Detection Systems Are Ineffective and Ground Systems Fail**
**Bonafoni et al. 2K11** (Department of Electronic and Information Engineering, “MICROWAVE RADIOMETRY IMAGING FOR FOREST FIRE DETECTION: A SIMULATION STUDY”, University of Perugia, 2011, Online, [SS])
**In each summer thousands of …** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">obstacle penetrating capability of microwaves.</span>


**Contention 2 is Pyro-Terrorism** 
**Fire Attacks Will Inevitably Target Susceptible United States Forests – Early Detection is the Only Solution**
**Deshpande, 2k8.** (Nick Deshpande, International Relations Professor at Royal Military College of Canada. “Pyro-Terrorism: Recent Cases and the Potential for Proliferation:” Routledge Taylor & Francis Publishing. May 25, 2008. Found online @ EbscoHost. [SK])
**Pyro-terrorism has the potential … disrupt lives on a massive scale.**

**Fire Will be the Weapon of Choice in Future Terrorist Attacks**
**Raynis, 2k6**. (Stephen A. Raynis, Battalion Chief Fire Department City of New York, Master of Arts in Naval Postgraduate School. Approved by Douglas Porch, Department of National Security Affairs. “IMPROVISED INCENDIARY DEVICES: RISK ASSESSMENT, THREATS, VULNERABILITIES AND CONSEQUENCES” Online PDF. [KevC])
<span style="background-color: white;">**Terrorists choose their targets and … , and wildland-urban interface**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (WUI).</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Al Qaeda Has Pyro-Terror on the Agenda**</span> **– It’s a Question of Preparedness** 
**World Net Daily, 2k4.** (World Net Daily, A Press for People. “New al-Qaida plot to burn U.S. forests,” April 8, 2004. worldnetdaily.com. online. [SK].)
**An Arabic-language jihadi website …** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">to conduct attacks in Australia." </span>

**Radical Environmental Groups Also Perpetuate Pyro-Terrorism – It’s the Number One Terror Threat – and It’s Completely Domestic.** 
**AP, 2k8** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Associated Press, “FBI: Eco-Terrorism Remains No. 1 Domestic Terror Threat” 3/31/08, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">For nearly seven years</span>, **the … becomes a guessing game,**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> experts said.</span>

**No Defense – The Department of Defense Lacks Full Protection – This Invites Attack**
**Raynis, 2k6.** (Stephen A. Raynis, Battalion Chief Fire Department City of New York, Master of Arts in Naval Postgraduate School. Approved by Douglas Porch, Department of National Security Affairs. “IMPROVISED INCENDIARY DEVICES: RISK ASSESSMENT, THREATS, VULNERABILITIES AND CONSEQUENCES” Online PDF. [KevC])
<span style="background-color: white;">**Terrorists have used fire in …** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">and gravity of IID attacks.</span></span>

**The Impact of a Single Pyro-Terror Attack would be Equivalent to a Nuclear Detonation.**
**Baird, 2k6.** (Robert Arthur Baird, United States Marine Corps School of Advanced Warfighting. //Studies in Conflict & Terrorism.// Volume 29, Issue 5. June 2006. Pg. 415-428. “Pyro-Terrorism-The Threat of ArsonInduced Forest Fires as a Future Terrorist Weapon of Mass Destruction” [KevC])
**The United States is at …** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">of the next 11 September attack.</span>


**The Department of Defense Lacks Full Protection – This Invites Attack**
**Raynis, 2k6.** (Stephen A. Raynis, Battalion Chief Fire Department City of New York, Master of Arts in Naval Postgraduate School. Approved by Douglas Porch, Department of National Security Affairs. “IMPROVISED INCENDIARY DEVICES: RISK ASSESSMENT, THREATS, VULNERABILITIES AND CONSEQUENCES” Online PDF. [KevC])
<span style="background-color: white;">**Terrorists have used fire in …** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">and gravity of IID attacks.</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Contention 2 is Air Pollution**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**Wildfires Directly Release Mass Amounts of Uniquely Dangerous Air Pollutants**
**California Department of Public Health, 2k8.** (Wildfire Smoke. Revised July 2008. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.arb.ca.gov/smp/progdev/pubeduc/wfgv8.pdf]]</span>. [SK])
**Smoke is a complex mixture of … health concern than larger particles**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wildfires Also Indirectly Release Industrial Pollutants Stored in Forests** </span>
**NCAR, 2k7.** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(National Center for Atmospheric Research. “Scientists estimate state-by-state mercury emissions from US fires,” October 17, 2007. Online. [SK].)</span>
**Forest fires and other blazes …** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">public health and the environment.</span>

**Independently, Air Pollution Causes Extinction**
**Salvador, 2k7**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. (Lourdes Salvador, Writer and Social Advocate for American Chronicle. "Human Extinction," 4/14/07. Online. [TR]) </span>
**The most common pattern of … obviously doesn't always work**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">” (Relethford, 2005). </span>

**Air Pollution Decimates Honeybee Population – Causes Colony Collapse Disorder** 
**Eilperin, 2k8** (Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post Staff Writer, “Air Pollution Impedes Bees' Ability to Find Flowers” Washington Post, 5/05/08, Online [FH]) 
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Scientists already knew that </span>**scent-… fashion may be playing a role."**

**The Impact is Extinction – Bees are Key to Our Survival – and Colony Collapse Disorder is the Root Cause** 
**Watson, 2k7.** (Joseph Watson, Prison Planet News. “Ecological Apocalypse: Why Are All the Bees Dying” April/10/2007. Online.[KevC])
**The alarming decline in bee … very existence? Where is Greenpeace**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">? </span>

**And We Outweigh on Timeframe – Colony Collapse Disorder Will Wipeout Bee Populations By 2018 if the Current Trend Continues.**
**Telegraph 2k8**. (The Telegraph News, “Diseases Could Wipe Out Honeybees by 2018” October 3, 2008. Online: <telegraph.co.uk>[KevC])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Beekeepers are launching a campaign to … </span>**be wiped out in 10 years.**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">"</span>

<span class="Underline">**Contention 3 is California**</span>
**Unchecked Wildfires Devastate Many Vital Sectors of the California Economy** 
**Schoen, 2k7** (John W. Schoen, Senior producer @ MSNBC, “California adds up the cost of wildfire damages” MSNBC, 10/26/07, Online [FH])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As residents of fire-ravaged … bud before it gets started.” </span>

**California Is Key to the Global Economy** 
**Ross, 2k9.** (Jean Ross, Executive Director of the California Budget Project. San Diego Tribune. "Yes: The State Means Too Much to the Nation" Online. [KevC]) 
**Yet the rest of the … to turn recession into expansion.** 

**US Economic Collapse Causes Nuclear War**
**Mead 4**

**Plan: the United States Forest Service should deploy satellites integrated with Version Four Algorithmic Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer Technology and Synthetic Aperture Radar Sensors beyond the Earth's mesosphere.**

**Contention 4 is Solvency**

**MODIS Technology Solves Inadequacies in Current Detection Systems** 
**Giglio et al. 2k3** (Louis, University of Maryland Department of Geography, “An Enhanced Contextual Fire Detection Algorithm for MODIS’, Remote Sensing of Environment, May 31, 2003, Online, [SS])
**One advantage,**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> however, </span>**is** **…** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Terra and Aqua MODIS data.</span>


**Integration With SAR Solves Optical Accuracy Problems**
**Hong et al, 2k11** (University of New Brunswick, FUSION OF MODIS AND RADARSAT DATA FOR CROP TYPE CLASSIFICATION— AN INITIAL STUDY”, ISPRS, 2011, Online, [SS])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Remotesensingiscommonlyused… al.,1997;ShabanandDikshit2002;Colditzetal.,2006).</span>


**USFS Has Jurisdiction And Discretionary Funding Allocated For the Plan**
**USDA, 2k12** (“Fiscal Year 2013 President’s Budget: Budget Justification” Feb 2012, Online [FH])
The FY 2013 President’s Budget proposes $616,000,000 … agreements Deploying decision support tools


**No Disads**

**Future Space Exploration and Launches Inevitable**
**NASA, 2k11** (NASA, “What’s Next For NASA?” 7-1-2011, Online [HT])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">"As a former astronaut and … </span>**the most extreme active galaxies.**

**International Space Projects Are Inevitable**
**Ilya, 2k11** (Ilya Arkhipov and Lyubov Pronina, writer for Bloomberg News, “Russia bullish on space program’s future” Journal Gazette, 4-10-2011, Online [HT])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">MOSCOW – </span>**Russia may accelerate planned …** **technology for a manned mission in 2020.**




=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]