[[toc]]
=Affirmative-HTF= 
Observation One: Inherency—we have a problem
====Transportation infrastructure is financed in one of two ways – through the general fund, or through increased revenue – Stimulus Programs finance through the general fund while failing to repair the Highway Trust Fund==== 
<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 13pt;">American Road and Transportation Builders Association 10</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(American Road and Transportation Builders Association to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform “The Contribution of the Federal Transportation Investment Programs to Fiscal Responsibility and Deficit Reduction,” pg online @ [[http://www.fiscalcommission.gov/sites/fiscalcommission.gov/files/documents/ARTBA.pdf]] //um-ef)</span></span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Transportation Investment................</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> expanded transportation improvements.</span>
====Thus the Plan==== 
====The United States federal government should increase the federal excise tax rate and phase-in a price floor and variable tax on gasoline for transportation infrastructure in the United States.==== 

====Contention Two: Our Harms==== 
====Advantage One: It’s the Economy==== 
====First, the deficit is on an unsustainable path – now is the CRITICAL time to re-orient policies to stave-off a new debt tragedy==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Council on Foreign Relations 3/2/12</span>
(“U.S. Deficits and the National Debt,” pg online @ [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/us-deficits-national-debt/p27400]] //um-ef)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">At some point </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in the not-too-distant future</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, .....................</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> U.S. foreign policy</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">," he says.</span>
====And, Congress has two options for the future – increased revenue generation, or deficit spending – only NEW REVENUE ensures Fiscal Responsibility==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ARTBA 10</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(American Road and Transportation Builders Association to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform “The Contribution of the Federal Transportation Investment Programs to Fiscal Responsibility and Deficit Reduction,” pg online @ [[http://www.fiscalcommission.gov/sites/fiscalcommission.gov/files/documents/ARTBA.pdf]] //um-ef)</span></span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">For more than 50 years......................</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">l transportation investment through fiscally responsible and budget-neutral user taxes and levies.</span>
====And, the plan is a KEY TEST for future budget debates – increasing revenue ensures a sustainable fiscal path==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Washington Post 3/7/12</span>
(“A fiscal test for Congress,” pg lexis//um-ef)

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Over the past year.....................</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">and avoid what Erskine Bowles called "the most predictable economic crisis in history</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"?</span>__**

====And, surface transportation investment is __CRITICAL__ to U.S. Manufacturing – props up dependent industries==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hermann 11</span>
(Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector, pg lexis//um-ef)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">ASCE commends the Joint Economic Committee for ...........................e nation's infrastructure: Increase federal leadership in infrastructure;</span>

====Manufacturing key to the U.S. Economy and Global Leadership==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vargo 03</span> [Franklin J. Vargo, 10/01/03, National Association of Manufacturers, FNS, l/n]

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">I would like to begin my statement with a review of why ........................</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> cannot become a "nation of shopkeepers."</span>

====The Impacts:==== 
====First, Economic collapse kills millions and sparks great power wars==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Duncan, chief economist Blackhorse Asset Management former IMF consultant and financial sector specialist for the World Bank, 12</span>
[Richard, The New Depression: The Breakdown of the Paper Money Economy, 2012, ebook]bg

**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The political battle ...................</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> war that killed approximately 60 million people.</span>__**


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Second, Unemployment destroys human dignity – you have an obligation to vote for employment </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kervick, PhD in Philosophy from Univ. of Mass, 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Dan, “Doing what needs to be done: Facing the Future with Full Employment and a Renewed Public Sector,” New Economic Perspectives, Feb. 2, 2012,http://neweconomicperspectives.org/2012/02/02, accessed 7-2-12]bg</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let’s be clear about one .................</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;"> as both a moral and economic imperative</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====Advantage Two: It’s Getting Hot in Here==== 
====Warming is real, human-induced and risks collapse of biodiversity and the economy – transition in the transportation sector is critical==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abelkop 09</span>
(Adam, J.D. Candidate, University of Iowa College of Law, 2010; B.A., Wake Forest University, “Why the Government Should Drink Your Milkshake: The Case for Restructuring the Federal Gas Tax,” The Journal of Corporation Law Winter, 2009, 35 Iowa J. Corp. L. 393 pg lexis//um-ef)

Climate change is ................ reason to err on the side of caution. n29
====Gas Tax Solves CO2 – Eliminates Warming==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mankiw 06</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(Gregory, Professor of Economics at Harvard, “Raise the Gas Tax”, [[http://gregmankiw.blogspot.com/2006/10/pigou-club-manifesto.html//HH]])</span></span>

With the midterm election around ...................**__without the adverse side effects__**.


====Traffic congestion multiplies factors that cause warming==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Laione 10</span>
(Christian, The Tragedy Of Urban Roads: Saving Cities From Choking, Calling On Citizens To Combat Climate Change, 37 Fordham Urb. L.J. 889. Lexis//HH)

**__Urban congestion ..............__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> use, and political patterns.</span>
====The Impact, Global warmingwill cause extinction -- scientific consensus that it’s real and anthropogenic.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morgan 09</span>
[Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As horrifying as the ....................</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> against our chances of survival?</span>__


====Contention Two: Solvency==== 
====The plan solves – establishing a price floor sends a signal for renewable energy development, while increasing revenue for transportation infrastructure==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abelkop 09</span>
(Adam, J.D., University of Iowa College of Law, 2010; B.A., Wake Forest University, PHd Student @ Univ of Indiana, “Why the Government Should Drink Your Milkshake: The Case for Restructuring the Federal Gas Tax,” The Journal of Corporation Law Winter, 2009, 35 Iowa J. Corp. L. 393 pg lexis//um-ef)

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress should enact ....................</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">y single use, but should be allocated as the government deems appropriate.</span>

====And, increasing the gas tax gives Obama leverage, reduces oil dependence, terrorism, and provides a price signal for renewable transition (can cut if necessary)==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedman 08</span>
(Thomas, “Wanted: higher gas prices,” The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick), pg lexis//um-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">That is why I believe </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the second biggest .............</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> innovative, less wealthy, less respected and less powerful.</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]