For cite requests, email elsa.givan@gmail.com
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Commercial Crew== 
===1AC Berkeley=== 
====1AC Plan==== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its commercial crew and cargo transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.
====1AC Partnerships==== 
<span class="CiteChar">__Contention One is Partnerships__ </span>
<span class="CiteChar">Uncertainty over the direction of the US space program undermines the industrial base destroying tech competitiveness and innovation</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Slazer 11</span> – Vice President of the Space Aerospace Industries Association, also Director NASA/Civil Space at Mcdonnell Douglas Corporation (Frank, “Contributions of Space to National Imperatives”, Senate Hearing, 5/18, [[http://commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=e26b4dcb-ee2c-4ada-95fa-b996c307692d]] EG)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space programs are essential to our national, technological … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> exploration and innovation or inevitably fall behind. </span>
Only COTS can reduce launch costs by billions and catalyze __public-private partnership__ – CPs are descriptive of __status quo failure__
Musk 11<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Elon, CEO of SpaceX, Stamement of Elon Musk before the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology U. S. House of Representatives, October 26, [[http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/102611_Musk.pdf]] EG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2006, SpaceX partnered with NASA under the Commercial Orbital Transportation Services (COTS) … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">four years for about $300 million</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Plan solves – competition through commercial crew is key
Ferster 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Warren, Space News, “Funding Cut Would Delay Private Space Taxis, NASA Deputy Chief Says”, [[http://www.space.com/15338-garver-nasa-congress-commercial-crew-funding.html]] EG)</span>

Garver said the Commercial Crew Program, along with a related effort … when the first Soyuz flight is needed.
Lower launch costs facilitate further space exploration that prevents inevitable resource wars – the alternative is extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins and Autino 10</span> - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy
Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, Science Direct

The major source of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> social friction, including </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">profusion of possibilities outlined above.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rising launch costs and aging technology doom the US military launch capability</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Norris 12 (</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Guy, Aviation Week, “Challenges Face U.S. Military Launch Ability”, 1/11, [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/asd/2012/01/11/06.xml&headline=Challenges%20Face%20U.S.%20Military%20Launch%20Ability]], BJM)</span>

The U.S. must overcome the growing challenges … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">sterling record of success,” he says.</span>

The military is entirely dependent on space assets – lack of a launch capability will destroy it
Pellerin 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Cheryl, American Forces Press Service, “General: Space capability integral to all military operations”, The Official Website of the Air Force, [[http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123295528]] EG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3/27/2012 - WASHINGTON (AFNS) -- </span>Space capabilities have <span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> can rely on commercial satellite communication."</span>

Hegemony is sustainable and key to prevent multiple scenarios of accidents, nuclear war, and extinction – also an impact filter for all other impacts – retrenchment fails
Brookes, Ikenberry, and Wolforth 13<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (1Associate Professor of Government, Dartmouth College 2Professor of Politics and International Affairs, Princeton University, Global Eminence Scholar, Kyung Hee University in Seoul 3Daniel Webster Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, “Lean Forward”, Foreign Affairs)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Proponents of retrenchment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> argue that a globally engaged … </span>power. The results could<span class="UnderlineChar"> well </span>be disastrous<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Absolute decline means the US will become uncooperative and desperate-hegemonic wars will ensue
Goldstein 7<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August 2007, pages 639 – 682)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">prior to the possible crossover.19</span>

Every credible measure of study shows violence is down because of everything consistent with the aff – heg, democracy, liberal trade – it’s only a question of sustaining current dynamics and preventing shocks to the system
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pinker 11</span> (Steven Pinker is Professor of psychology at Harvard University "Violence Vanquished" Sept 24 online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904106704576583203589408180.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the day this article appears, you will read about a shocking act … revolutions coincided with the electronic global village. </span>
====1AC ISS==== 
__Contention Two is the ISS__

We are now __entirely dependent__ on Russia for access to space, but recent rocket failures prove the Soyuz is __unreliable__ and will force the abandonment of the ISS
Dunn 11<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Marcia, space writer for the Associated Press, “Astronauts might have to abandon space station”, August 30, [[http://redicecreations.com/article.php?id=16631]] EG)</span>

Astronauts may<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> need to </span><span class="UnderlineChar">take the unprecedented …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on board at least an extra week.</span>

Commercial crew is the only dependable means of access to the ISS – it must be fully funded
Chow 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Denise, space writer for MSNBC and Space.com, “Russian setbacks stress NASA's need for private spaceships”, 2/12, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/46283736/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.TzK718WXRK1|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/46283736/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.TzK718WXRK1]] EG)</span>

The<span class="UnderlineChar"> recent </span>delay of the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> next … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">with that request," Logsdon said.</span>

Lack of access to the ISS kills American scientific leadership – it’s building up now but will be destroyed – timeframe is 2015
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hauser and John 9</span> [Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" [[http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]]]

If the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited</span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>allows<span style="font-size: 8pt;">its leadership </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> National Laboratory to other nations.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US is a critical international beacon of scientific diplomacy </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turekian 10</span>[Vaugh. Director, Center for Science Diplomacy, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). Keynote Address at USC Center for on Public Diplomacy Conference, 2010. http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/media/Science%20Diplomacy%20Proceedings.pdf]
Dr. Vaughan Turekian … which may only be obtainable through foreign cooperation.
Even when hegemony fails, science diplomacy solves and causes bandwaggoning
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turekian 10</span> (Vaughan, Director, Center for Science Diplomacy, American
Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), Keynote Address, February 4, [[http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/media/Science%20Diplomacy%20Proceedings.pdf]])
<span class="UnderlineChar">Science diplomacy</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, therefore … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> U.S. engagement with the world</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span>

Try-or-die – extinction is inevitable without scientific exchange – and it’s key to solving all other impacts
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sackett 10</span> – former Chief Scientist for Australia, former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07) [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, [[http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Imagine for a moment that the … recognised the value of science diplomacy. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, science diplomacy checks escalation of conflicts – it’s an impact filter – independently solves arctic conflict, deforestation, and ocean acidification </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal Society 10</span>– a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the next thirty years, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">… </span> implications for contentious sovereignty claims (Natural Resources Canada 2009).

Arctic competition escalates to nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Staples 9</span> (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, [[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]], p. 5-6)

The fact is, the Arctic is<span class="UnderlineChar"> … threat or </span>use of nuclear weapons<span class="UnderlineChar">.”</span>

Ocean acidification causes mass extinction – empirically proven
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boswell, 11</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Randy. Staff Writer for the Vancouver Sun. “Mass extinction due to high ocean acidity: Canadian-led team solves biggest mystery in Earth history.” <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.vancouversun.com/business/technology/Mass+extinction+high+ocean+acidity+study/5377124/story.html.%20September%209|http://www.vancouversun.com/business/technology/Mass+extinction+high+ocean+acidity+study/5377124/story.html. September 9]]</span>.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Canadian-led team of … dinosaur age 65 million years ago.</span>

==2AC== 
===2AC T-Its=== 
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Infrastructure investment includes grants to the private sector</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">OECD 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2011, Organisation For Economic Co-Operation And Development, Government at a Glance 2011, III. Public Finance and Economics, “ 9. General government investment,” [[http://books.google.com/books?id=X1YWQ0rP4fEC&pg=PA74&lpg=PA74&dq=%22Government+investment+creates+a+public+infrastructure+that+is+essential+for+long-term+economic+growth+and+societal+well-being.+Governments+spend+money+on+building+roads,+housing,+schools+and+hospitals,+as+well+as+communications+networks.+In+addition,+governments%22&source=bl&ots=mHQZCVy9VG&sig=BvlbjKpafeL2sXDd91k1fQ1epwU&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Zjj-T8XiMYWjrQGjrrCKCQ&ved=0CEMQ6AEwBA#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=X1YWQ0rP4fEC&pg=PA74&lpg=PA74&dq=%22Government+investment+creates+a+public+infrastructure+that+is+essential+for+long-term+economic+growth+and+societal+well-being.+Governments+spend+money+on+building+roads,+housing,+schools+and+hospitals,+as+well+as+communications+networks.+In+addition,+governments%22&source=bl&ots=mHQZCVy9VG&sig=BvlbjKpafeL2sXDd91k1fQ1epwU&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Zjj-T8XiMYWjrQGjrrCKCQ&ved=0CEMQ6AEwBA#v=onepage&q&f=false]])</span>

Government investment creates<span class="UnderlineChar"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> soft and hard infrastructure.</span>

Federal investment includes public-private partnerships --- narrower interpretations distort the topic
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heller 9</span> (Peter S., Former Deputy Director of the Fiscal Affairs Department – International Monetary Fund and Currently Senior Adjunct Professor of International Economics – Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at The Johns Hopkins University, “Public Investment: Vital for Growth and Renewal, But Should it be a Countercyclical Weapon?”, http://www.unctad.org/en/Docs/webdiae20091_en.pdf)

While any capital outlay<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;"> realization of public policy objectives.</span>
3) Its means associated with
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oxford Dictionaries Online, No Date</span> (“Its”, [[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/its?view=uk]])
its<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Entry from World dictionary ... area for its atmosphere</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2AC Deterrence K</span>=== 


Reps and epistemology can’t be fully settled – can and should act with some uncertainty

Cochran 99<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Molly Cochran Assistant Professor of International Affairs @ Georgia Institute for Technology, Normative Theory in International Relations. 1999, Page 272</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To conclude this chapter </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> feminist and normative theorists generally.</span>



The ONLY objective approach to knowledge accumulation is to engage in empirical falsification through the scientific method – this is a framing issue for evaluating truth claims and evidence

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fischer</span>, PolSci Professor at Rutgers, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">’98</span> (Frank, Spring, “Beyond Empiricism: Policy Inquiry in Postpositivist Perspective” Policy Studies Journal, Vol 26 No 1, p 129-146)


Neopositivism (or logical empiricism) ... reaffirm and more intensively apply.



Only deterrence can provide competing nations with stable, peaceful identities – this de-escalates all violence and creates a global norm against hostility

**Lupovici 8** (Amir, Post-Doctoral Fellow Munk Centre for International Studies, Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf|http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/ papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf]]</span>, AD: 9/22/10)


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I suggest that</span> __deterrence__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">norm</span> ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deterrence Norm and Ontological Security. </span>



Deterrence has empirically worked and is necessary as a stop-gap to any transition away from the status quo

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butfoy</span>, Senior Lecturer in IR at Monash University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span> [Andrew, “The Future of Nuclear Strategy,” //Contemporary Security and Strategy//, Ed. Craig A. Snyder, p. 166]



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Conclusion The central conclusion here must be ... </span>__especially utility beyond the deterrence of nuclear attack.__



Realism is inevitable

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guzzini 98</span>(Professor at the Central European University, 1998 [Stefano, Realism in International Relations and International Political Economy]


Third, this last chapter has argued ... to<span class="UnderlineChar"> tacitly and </span>uncritically reproduce it.

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2AC Visa CP</span>=== 

Obama has already extended EB-5 visas until 2015 – means the CP is status quo funding so it’s not competitive and perm do the CP solves

Cook 10/10<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (William, President Obama renews EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program − the Green Card alternative for foreign investors, [[http://www.dlapiper.com/global/publications/Detail.aspx?pub=7431&RSS=true]])</span>



President Barack <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Obama ...</span> Press Secretary of the White House.

===2AC Immigration DA=== 
It will never pass, there’s no bill, and Obama’s political capital is irrelevant
Fox 2/17<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Republicans rip Obama immigration plan; Rubio calls it 'dead on arrival' Read more: [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2013/02/17/report-bill-would-set-8-year-path-to-residency/#ixzz2LD1iWGGi|http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2013/02/17/report-bill-would-set-8-year-path-to-residency/#ixzz2LD1iWGGi]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congressional </span>Republicans<span class="UnderlineChar"> on Sunday ...</span> to Capitol Hill on immigration.

Gun Control thumps
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North, 1/18</span>/13
Gary, The Current, “President Obama Shoots Himself in the Foot on Gun Control”, [[http://current.com/community/94025078_president-obama-shoots-himself-in-the-foot-on-gun-control.htm]], BJM

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">North’s law of knee-jerk politics ... kicked him into action.</span>
No controversy over the plan – new consensus emerging
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Powell 12</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Stewart, Houston Chronicle, 1/27, [[http://blog.chron.com/txpotomac/2012/01/budget-conscious-gop-candidates-largely-accept-obamas-roadmap-for-space/]], BJM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The candidates showed </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a </span>political consensus ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> deep space exploration.” added Logsdon.</span>
Boeing likes the plan and has enormous leverage to shape congressional votes – outweighs their internals
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Smith 12</span>
Stephen C., Space KSC, “Time to Play the Game”, [[http://spaceksc.blogspot.com/2012/04/time-to-play-game.html]], BJM

Commercial crew advocates<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have </span>pressed ... Congress on this issue, it's Boeing<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

The idea that political capital would have any effect on political issues is totally distortionary when attempting to understand political power.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hirsh 2/7</span>is chief correspondent for National Journal, February 7, 2013 (Michael, National Journal, Online, pg. [[http://www.nationaljournal.com/reporters/bio/42]])

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">On Tuesday, in his State of the Union address, ...</span> It’s a bandwagon effect<span class="UnderlineChar">.”</span>

No impact to Latin America
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CTV 08</span>, March 3, 2008, http://www.ctv.ca/servlet/ArticleNews/story/CTVNews/20080303/chavez_colombia_080303/20080303?hub=CTVNewsAt11.

On CTV Newsnet, Vladimir Torres, ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> that exists between the countries</span>.
==Mayport== 
===1AC Greenhill RR=== 

====1AC Crisis Management==== 

**__The advantage is Crisis Management__**

**No __[[#|funding]]__ for homeporting a nuclear powered aircraft carrier in Mayport, Florida __[[#|now]]__ – disads are non-unique because the Navy remains committed**
<span class="CiteChar">O’Rourke 12</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]] EG)</span>
<span class="TagChar">The Navy’s proposed FY2013 budget </span>… to fiscal constraints.”

**Terrorist attack at the Hampton Roads port in Norfolk, Virginia is likely – technology can’t predict it**
Kimberlin 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Joanne, The Virginian-Pilot, “Millions of containers. Now, find the 'Boom Box.'”, February 5, [[http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box]] EG)</span>

They look harmless enough … boom box before it ever gets here<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Detrimental event is __inevitable__ because of the structure of Norfolk’s port**
Lessig 10<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Hugh Lessig joined the __[[#|Daily Press]]__ in 1997 as the Hampton city reporter. He spent eight years in Richmond covering state politics and the administrations of three Virginia governors, “Senior Navy commander says Mayport move is "not idle talk.", January 12, [[http://weblogs.dailypress.com/news/local/military/blog/2010/01/senior_navy_commander_says_may_1.html]] EG)</span>

Adm. John Harvey, head of Fleet Forces … — moving to Mayport.

**Norfolk is the __most vulnerable port__ in the country – dispersing forces to Mayport breaks up assets and ensures continued force strength**
Crenshaw 8<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ander, Representative in Florida, “The Case For Two East Coast Homeports Is "Overwhelming And Simply Irrefutable"”, December 7, [[http://votesmart.org/public-statement/443948/the-case-for-two-east-coast-homeports-is-overwhelming-and-simply-irrefutable]] EG)</span>

Recently, the Navy announced … further affirm the Navy's decision<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**New legislation guarantees commitment to 11 carriers – it’s only a question of effectiveness**
__[[#|Associated Press]]__ 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“US to keep 11 aircraft carriers to show sea power”, January 22, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/01/21/us-to-keep-11-aircraft-carriers-to-show-sea-power/)</span>
ABOARD THE USS ENTERPRISE – Defense Secretary Leon Panetta told sailors … both in the Pacific and in the Middle East."

**__Strategic dispersal__ key – catastrophic events at Norfolk will leave the US __without__ an aircraft carrier force because it’s the only location in the US capable of CVN refueling**
O’Rourke 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]] EG)</span>

Strategic dispersal: The strategic dispersal of surface ships<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>repair infrastructure supporting those crucial assets.

**Department of Navy must make this __critical__ [[#|investment]] – aircraft carriers are the most valuable asset of the US military**
Crenshaw 9<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ander, Representative in Florida, Press Release, October 23, Appendix of Rourke’s report, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]] EG)</span>

Prior to 2007, the Navy had operational flexibility … the nation’s most valuable assets.

**Homeporting solves strategic dispersal – it’s critical to operational readiness and overall Navy strength**
O’Rourke 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]] EG)</span>

The FEIS identified Alternative 4 as the Navy’s preferred alternative … obligation to the Commander in Chief.24

**__Scenario One is Power Projection__**

**US leadership is on the brink of collapse – the military is undergoing a fundamental transition to a __naval force__ and continued strength is key – none of your generic heg defense applies**
__[[#|Kaplan]]__ 7<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, in Washington, D.C, “America’s Elegant Decline”, November, The Atlantic, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/11/america-8217-s-elegant-decline/6344/?single_page=true]] EG)</span>
Are we prepared to fight these wars? Our Army and Marine Corps together<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>to which our elites appear blind.

**Aircraft carriers are the __quintessential symbol__ of American power – without a shift in strategy, Navy’s power projection capabilities will __inevitably decline__**
Martinez et. al. 9<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Mel Martinez (R-FL), Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) are members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) is a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee and Reps. Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) and Jack Kingston (R-GA) are members of the House Appropriations Committee. “Strategic Dispersal is a Priority”, January 19, [[http://votesmart.org/public-statement/403642/strategic-dispersal-is-a-priority]] EG)</span>

Strategic dispersal has been key … and Congress to help the Navy meet this important objective.

**Failure to shore up the carrier fleet will embolden potential adversaries, risking multiple scenarios for great power war – it’s reverse causal**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brookes 8</span> Senior Fellow in National Security Affairs at the __[[#|Heritage Foundation]]__, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs, 2k8 (Peter, May 2nd, “Flattop Follies: Navy Cuts Back on Carriers”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/05/flattop_follies_navy_cuts_back.html)

After cutting the number of active aircraft carriers … quantity has a quality all its own.

**5 internal links to hegemony and naval power – only aircraft carriers solve**
US Navy 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Aircraft Carriers – CVN”, Fact File, January 6, [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200&tid=200&ct=4]] EG)</span>

Description Aircraft carriers are the centerpiece … delivered in 2015 to replace USS Enterprise (CVN 65).

**Naval power independently deters nuclear conflict.**
Asbjornsen 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Rear Adm. Douglas J. Asbjornsen, USN, deputy commander, Navy Region Northwest, is the senior Navy representative for Spokane Navy Week. “Guest opinion: Strong Navy still essential”, May 12, [[http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2012/may/12/guest-opinion-strong-navy-still-essential/]] EG)</span>

America needs a strong Navy now … requires the best sailors in the world: the men and women of the United States Navy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Hegemony solves nuclear war and extinction – even if multipolarity is inevitable, US power is key to peaceful transition.**
Barnett 11<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas P.M., Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7<span style="color: #427eb1;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>)</span>

Events in Libya are a further reminder for Americans<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

**Absolute decline means the US will become uncooperative and desperate-hegemonic wars will ensue**
Goldstein 7<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August 2007, pages 639 – 682)</span>

Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical … period prior to the possible crossover.19

**Every credible measure of study shows violence is down because of everything consistent with the aff – heg, democracy, liberal trade – it’s only a question of sustaining current dynamics and preventing shocks to the system**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pinker 11</span> (Steven Pinker is Professor of psychology at Harvard University "Violence Vanquished" Sept 24 online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904106704576583203589408180.html)

On the day this article appears, you will read about a shocking act of violence <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>rights revolutions coincided with the __[[#|electronic]]__ global village<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**__Scenario Two is the Strait of Hormuz__**

**A __complete force__ of aircraft carriers is key to prevent Iran from closing the Strait of Hormuz – any reductions in force will inhibit our ability to deter closure of the Strait**
Indian Express 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“US to keep 11 aircraft carriers to to project sea power against Iran”, Report aboard the USS Enterprise, January 23, [[http://www.indianexpress.com/news/us-to-keep-11-aircraft-carriers-to-to-project-sea-power-against-iran/903009/0]] EG)</span>

Defense Secretary Leon Panetta told sailors … after which it is scheduled to be deactivated.

**Closure of the Strait will cause massive oil price shocks that will destroy global economic recovery**
Lafakis 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Chris, economist at Moody’s Analytics, “Odds and Costs of an Iran Oil Shock”, [[http://www.economy.com/dismal/article_free.asp?cid=229078&tid=5FCB4BBF-D759-422D-BD25-BFF7D505D457]] EG)</span>

A conflict in the Middle East that … driving the U.S. economy into recession<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

**Empirical studies prove that unmanaged economic decline leads to conflict – defer to __statistical analysis__**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span> Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10 [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]

Less intuitive is how periods of … economic-security debate and deserves more attention<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====1AC Topicality==== 

**Definitions that focus on transportation infrastructure investment as a function of economic productivity are politically biased and intellectually lazy – it’s much harder for economists to measure military impact so they leave it out of their studies. However, the most logical definition is public-owned natural monopolies – aka military investments; other interpretations simply devolve this topic to a States CP every round, leading us to the same round every time.**
__**Gramlich 94**__, PhD from Yale, former member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and former Dean of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at University of Michigan (Edward M., “Infrastructure Investment: A Review Essay”, Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. 32, No. 3. (Sep., 1994), pp. 1176-1196. Stable URL: http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-0515%28199409%2932%3A3%3C1176%3AIIARE%3E2.0.CO%3B2-C)

Nowhere has this speculative bubble¶ of economic research been … or changes in them. No wonder there are empirical controversies.

**Federal Transportation Infrastructure includes defense facilities – military is the only fed key warrant**
__**Poole 96**__ (Robert W. Former member of the President’s Commission on Privatization, “Defederalizing Transportation Infrastructure, http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf)

This paper has sought to demonstrate that federal taxes and trust funds are … purposes requires any tax on ¶ general highway or airport users.

**“Its” refers to the United States Federal Government and is possessive**
__**Updegrave 91**__ (W.C., “Explanation of ZIP Code Address Purpose”, 8-19, http://www.supremelaw.org/ref/zipcode/updegrav.htm)

More specifically, looking at the map on page 11 of the National ZIP Code Directory ... Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, making the explanatory statement literally correct.

**Transportation infrastructure includes military ports**
__**GAO 8**__ (Government Accountability Office, Defense Critical Infrastructure, http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08851.html, August 08)

The Department of Defense (DOD) relies on a global network … organizations involved in the program.[Footnote 4]

**Transportation sector includes the military**
Kim 9 (Brian, Wyle Laboratories, Inc., et al., “Guidebook on Preparing Airport Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventories”, Airport Cooperative Research Program – Report 11, http://onlinepubs.tr...crp_rpt_011.pdf)

Transportation Sector: Consists of private and public passenger and freight transportation, as well as government transportation, including military operations.

**Military education is uniquely good – allows us to have better advocacy skills – the impact is extinction**
__**Hanson 7**__ (Victor Davis Hanson, Professor of Classics at CSU Fullerton, “Why Study War?” City Journal, Summer) *we don’t affirm the gendered language in this card*

It’s no surprise that civilian Americans tend to lack a basic … men, we who have learned from the past, have a moral obligation to stop them.

====1AC Plan==== 

**The United States federal government should dredge, make infrastructure and wharf improvements, and construct CVN nuclear propulsion plant maintenance facilities at Naval Station Mayport for the purpose of homeporting a CVN.**

===1AC Meadows=== 

====1AC Crisis Management==== 

**Took out economy impact. Added this new scenario as impact for Strait of Hormuz module:**

**Atlantic aircraft carriers are the critical deterrents to Iran closing the Strait of Hormuz**
__**Tan 12**__ (Corporal Rubin Tan of the US Marines, “Enterprise makes safe transit from sea to shining sea”, http://www.marines.mil/Pages/NewsStoriesItemDetails.aspx?ItemUrl=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.marines.mil%2Funit%2Fmcasbeaufort%2FPages%2Fssafetransit.aspx EG)

USS ENTERPRISE, At Sea - Last month Marine Fighter Attack Squadron 251 … maneuver­ing environment and to provide standard defen­sive precautions.

**Closure causes Middle East war and US-Russia conflict**
__**Cochrane 12**__ (Paul, Special Reporter on Energy Wars for Executive Magazine, “Flirting with death”, March 1, http://www.executive-magazine.com/getarticle.php?article=15225)

If any of the above plays out, Gulf War Three, if not World War Three, … off if a war breaks out are incalculable,” concludes Elleman.

**Middle East war goes nuclear**
__**Steinbach 2**__ – Analyst, Center for Research on Globalisation
http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html

Meanwhile, the existence of an arsenal of mass destruction in such an unstable region … the deepening Middle East conflict could trigger a world conflagration." (44)

**US-Russia conflict causes extinction.**
__**Bostrom 2**__ (Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)

The unique challenge of existential risks Risks in this sixth category are a recent … to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

====1AC Topicality==== 

**Same as St. Mark's.**

====1AC Plan==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**The United States federal government should construct the necessary transportation infrastructure for homeporting for a CVN at Naval Station Mayport.** </span>

===1AC Emory=== 
====1AC Plan==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should construct transportation infrastructure for homeporting a CVN at Naval Station Mayport. </span>**
====1AC Pacific Rebalancing==== 
**US is strategically pivoting to Asia now – the shift is inevitable, it’s only a question of effectiveness – and it’s not predicated off of increased forces, but __focus__**
**Mount 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Mike, CNN, A pivot to Asia, but how much is changing?, June 6, [[http://security.blogs.cnn.com/2012/06/06/a-pivot-to-asia-but-how-much-is-changing/]])</span>

A funny thing happened to … <span class="UnderlineChar">not done before," Cha said.</span>

**But Atlantic hotspots remain critical – detrimental events in the Atlantic prevent __surge capability__ to Asia**
**Sisk 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Richard, Pacific Pivot Offers Navy Hope in Austere Times, October 10, [[http://www.military.com/daily-news/2012/10/10/pacific-pivot-offers-navy-hope-in-austere-times.html]])</span>

Obama’s current proposals would build ... <span class="UnderlineChar">Haney told the San Diego Times-Union.</span>

**Military resources are finite – hits to our Atlantic force hinder effective strategic pivot to the Asia**
**Hao 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Zheng, Global Times, Asia pivot policy pragmatic choice for US, June 10, [[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/713974.shtml]])</span>

To put it simply, <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> Australia and the Philippines

**Detrimental losses in the Atlantic necessitate rebalancing away from Asia**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Holmes 12</span>** (James, Foreign Policy, Is America Pivoting to Asia Fast Enough?, June 4, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/06/04/is_america_pivoting_to_asia_fast_enough?page=0,2]])

As Panetta noted, it's standard practice<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">plied the Pacific as a deterrent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Effective US rebalancing is key to alliances in East Asia and prevention of Chinese military modernization**
**DOD 12**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Sustaining US Global Leadership: Priorities for 21st Century Defense, January 2012, [[http://www.defense.gov/news/Defense_Strategic_Guidance.pdf]])</span>

U.S. economic and security interests … constructive defense cooperation.

**Multiple hotspots go nuclear without the US to stabilize them – North Korea, Indo-Pak, and South China Sea**
**Pumphrey 2**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Carolyn, Strategic Studies Institute, INTRODUCTION, [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub61.pdf]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">One way to gauge the impact of China … from East Asian nations.</span>

**Korean War causes extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes and Green 10</span>** - *Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)**

**<span class="UnderlineChar">The consequences of </span>failing to address<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> … from the international community.</span>**

Indo-Pak war will cause global extinction
**Ghulam Nabi** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fai</span>**, Kashmiri American Council, WASHINGTON TIMES, July 8,** 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1</span>**, p. online**

**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">The foreign policy of the United States … </span> advanced delivery vehicles<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

South Asian war goes nuclear
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Landay 2k</span>** (Jonathan S., “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, Knight Ridder, 3-10, Lexis)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Few</span> if any <span class="UnderlineChar">experts think China … </span> for potential disaster."

===1AC Golden Desert=== 

====1AC Status Quo==== 

__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention One is the Status Quo</span>**__

**No funding for homeporting a nuclear powered aircraft carrier in Mayport, Florida now – disads are non-unique because the Navy remains committed**
__**<span class="CiteChar">O’Rourke 12</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]] EG)</span>

The Navy’s proposed FY2013 budget defers the Navy’s … at this time due to fiscal constraints.”

**Terrorist attack at the Hampton Roads port in Norfolk, Virginia is likely – technology can’t predict it**
__**Kimberlin 12**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Joanne, The Virginian-Pilot, “Millions of containers. Now, find the 'Boom Box.'”, February 5, [[http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box]] EG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">They look harmless enough. And, so far, they … import data, hoping to stop a boom box before it ever gets here. </span>

**Detrimental event is __inevitable__ because of the structure of Norfolk’s port**
__**Lessig 10**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Hugh Lessig joined the Daily Press in 1997 as the Hampton city reporter. He spent eight years in Richmond covering state politics and the administrations of three Virginia governors, “Senior Navy commander says Mayport move is "not idle talk.", January 12, [[http://weblogs.dailypress.com/news/local/military/blog/2010/01/senior_navy_commander_says_may_1.html]] EG)</span>

Adm<span class="UnderlineChar">. John </span>Harvey<span class="UnderlineChar">, head of Fleet Forces Command</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, recalled …associated jobs and economic effects — moving to Mayport</span>.

**Norfolk is the __most vulnerable port__ in the country – dispersing forces to Mayport breaks up assets and ensures continued force strength**
__**Crenshaw 8**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ander, Representative in Florida, “The Case For Two East Coast Homeports Is "Overwhelming And Simply Irrefutable"”, December 7, [[http://votesmart.org/public-statement/443948/the-case-for-two-east-coast-homeports-is-overwhelming-and-simply-irrefutable]] EG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recently, the Navy announced </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a decision to homeport …</span> are staggering differences<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and further affirm the Navy's decision.</span>

**New legislation guarantees commitment to 11 carriers – it’s only a question of effectiveness**
__**Associated Press 12**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“US to keep 11 aircraft carriers to show sea power”, January 22, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/01/21/us-to-keep-11-aircraft-carriers-to-show-sea-power/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ABOARD THE USS ENTERPRISE – </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Defense Secretary</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Leon </span>Panetta … power projection<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> both in the Pacific and in the Middle East." </span>

====1AC Plan==== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should construct the necessary transportation infrastructure for homeporting a CVN at Naval Station Mayport. </span>**

====1AC Leadership==== 

**__Contention Two is Leadership__**

**__Strategic dispersal__ key – catastrophic events at Norfolk will leave the US __without__ an aircraft carrier force because it’s the only location in the US capable of CVN refueling**
__**O’Rourke 12**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]] EG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Strategic dispersal: The strategic dispersal of surface ships, … and associated maintenance and repair infrastructure supporting those crucial assets....</span>

**Homeporting solves strategic dispersal – it’s critical to operational readiness and overall Navy strength**
__**O’Rourke 12**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]] EG)</span>

The FEIS identified Alternative 4 as the Navy’s preferred alternative. <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> mission and obligation to the Commander in Chief.24
**US leadership is on the brink of collapse – the military is undergoing a fundamental transition to a __naval force__ and continued strength is key – none of your generic heg defense applies**
__**Kaplan 7**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, in Washington, D.C, “America’s Elegant Decline”, November, The Atlantic, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/11/america-8217-s-elegant-decline/6344/?single_page=true]] EG)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Are we prepared to fight these wars? Our Army and Marine Corps …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> decline of our Navy is a big, dangerous fact </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to which our elites appear blind. </span>

**Hegemony is sustainable and key to prevent multiple scenarios of accidents, nuclear war, and extinction – also an impact filter for all other impacts – retrenchment fails**
__**Brookes, Ikenberry, and Wolforth 13**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (1Associate Professor of Government, Dartmouth College 2Professor of Politics and International Affairs, Princeton University, Global Eminence Scholar, Kyung Hee University in Seoul 3Daniel Webster Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, “Lean Forward”, Foreign Affairs)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Proponents of retrenchment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> argue that a globally engaged grand strategy wastes …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> without an engaged and liberal leading power. The results could well </span>be disastrous<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Every credible measure of study shows violence is down because of everything consistent with the aff – heg, democracy, liberal trade – it’s only a question of sustaining current dynamics and preventing shocks to the system**
__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pinker 11</span>**__ (Steven Pinker is Professor of psychology at Harvard University "Violence Vanquished" Sept 24 online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904106704576583203589408180.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the day this article appears, you will read about a shocking act of violence. Somewhere … the Enlightenment, that the Long Peace and rights revolutions coincided with the electronic global village. </span>

====<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1AC Strait of Hormuz</span>==== 

**__Contention Three is Strait of Hormuz__**

**Atlantic aircraft carriers are the __critical deterrents__ to Iran closing the Strait of Hormuz**
__**Tan 12**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Corporal Rubin Tan of the US Marines, “Enterprise makes safe transit from sea to shining sea”, [[http://www.marines.mil/Pages/NewsStoriesItemDetails.aspx?ItemUrl=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.marines.mil%2Funit%2Fmcasbeaufort%2FPages%2Fssafetransit.aspx]] EG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">USS ENTERPRISE, At Sea - </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Last month </span>Marine Fighter Attack Squadron<span class="UnderlineChar"> 251 …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the restrictive maneuver­ing environment and to provide standard defen­sive precautions. </span>

**Iran has the __will__ to close it**
__**UPI 10/18**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Fears grow Iran will block Hormuz Strait, </span>[[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Energy-Resources/2012/10/18/Fears-grow-Iran-will-block-Hormuz-Strait/UPI-75721350583574/]]<span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

Iran has denied a report it plans to block the strategic Strait of Hormuz …<span class="UnderlineChar"> disruption and push oil prices through the roof.</span>

**And they have the __capabilities__**
__**Komath 12**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ashwatch, International Relations Correspondent, “Can Iran Block The Straits of Hormuz?”. </span>[[http://newsflavor.com/politics/international-relations/can-iran-block-the-straits-of-hormuz/]]<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> EG)</span>

So does Iran have the capability to block the strait<span class="UnderlineChar">s of …</span> of numbers and<span class="UnderlineChar"> also in a way its </span>quality<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

**Closure causes Middle East war and US-Russia conflict**
__**Cochrane 12**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Paul, Special Reporter on Energy Wars for Executive Magazine, “Flirting with death”, March 1, [[http://www.executive-magazine.com/getarticle.php?article=15225]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If any of the above plays out, </span>Gulf War Three<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>if not World War … breaks out are incalculable<span class="UnderlineChar">,” concludes Elleman</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Middle East war goes nuclear**
__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Steinbach 2</span>**__ – Analyst, Center for Research on Globalisation [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html]]

Meanwhile, __the existence of an arsenal of mass destruction … **conflict could trigger a world conflagration****."**__ (44)

**US-Russia conflict causes extinction.**
__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bostrom 2</span>**__ (Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The unique challenge of </span>existential risks<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Risks in this sixth … preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

====1AC Topicality==== 

**__Contention Four is We Are Topical__**

**Definitions that focus on transportation infrastructure investment as a function of economic productivity are politically biased and intellectually lazy – it’s much harder for economists to measure military impact so they leave it out of their studies. However, the most logical definition is public-owned natural monopolies – aka military investments; other interpretations simply devolve this topic to a States CP every round, leading us to the same round every time.**
__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gramlich 94</span>**__, PhD from Yale, former member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and former Dean of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at University of Michigan (Edward M., “Infrastructure Investment: A Review Essay”, Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. 32, No. 3. (Sep., 1994), pp. 1176-1196. Stable URL: http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-0515%28199409%2932%3A3%3C1176%3AIIARE%3E2.0.CO%3B2-C)

Nowhere has this speculative bubble<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>of economic research …<span class="UnderlineChar"> to its goals, or changes in them. </span>No wonder there are empirical controversies.

**Federal Transportation Infrastructure includes defense facilities – military is the only fed key warrant**
__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Poole 96</span>**__ (Robert W. Former member of the President’s Commission on Privatization, “Defederalizing Transportation Infrastructure, [[http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper has sought to demonstrate that federal taxes and trust funds are … (e.g. for defense installations). None of these purposes requires any tax on </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> general highway or airport users.</span>

**Transportation infrastructure includes military ports**
__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">GAO 8</span>**__ (Government Accountability Office, Defense Critical Infrastructure, http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08851.html, August 08)

The<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Department of Defense </span><span class="UnderlineChar">(</span>DOD) relies on<span class="UnderlineChar"> a global network of critical …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> responsibilities for DOD organizations involved in the program.[Footnote 4]</span>

**Counter-interpretation – infrastructure includes homeporting**
__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ullman 95</span>**__ – PhD, Defense advisor, retired United States Naval Commander, Senior Fellow @ National Defense Univesity, Chairman of the Killowen Group that advises leaders in business and government; is chairman or vice chairman of a number of private companies and advisory boards; and a director of the Wall Street Fund - one of the nation's first mutual funds
Harlan, “In irons U.S. military might in the new century,” p. 154

Of all the major defense-related issues, perhaps none is more politically … with the best and worst characteristics of the political process.

**Our interpretation is most predictable – infrastructure is derived from the military**
__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edwards 3</span>**__ – Professor in School of Information @ UM
Paul, “Infrastructure and Modernity: Force, Time, and Social Organization in the History of Sociotechnical Systems,” Scholar

The word “infrastructure” originated in military parlance, referring <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> • government services • banking and finance • electrical power • information and communications.

==2AC== 
===Add Ons=== 
====Venezuelan Instability==== 
**<span class="UnderlineChar">Successful Fourth Fleet requires homeporting a CVN</span>**
<span class="UnderlineChar">Dixon 8</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Drew, The Jacksonville Times, “New Mayport fleet, commander uplifting for base”, July 12, [[http://jacksonville.com/tu-online/stories/071208/nes_302439784.shtml]])</span>

The reinstatement of a long-dormant fleet<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> ... last three years and some on multiple occasions," Stevenson said.</span>
**That’s key to stability in Venezuela**
Santana 8<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Humberto, International Committee of the Fourth International, “US Navy resurrects Fourth Fleet to police Latin America”, May 7, [[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2008/may2008/navy-m07.shtml]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Washington announced</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the end of last month </span><span class="UnderlineChar">that it is resurrecting ...</span> floating base for US interventions throughout the continent<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Electoral tensions will escalate to civil war – stabilizing force is key**
International Crisis Group 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Dangerous Uncertainty Ahead of Venezuela Elections”, June 26, [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/publication-type/media-releases/2012/latam/dangerous-uncertainty-ahead-of-venezuela-elections.aspx?utm_source=venezuelaemail&utm_medium=mr&utm_campaign=mremail]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The president’s cancer overshadows electoral preparations<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> ...</span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> opposition protests</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> and </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">escalating confrontation</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> with government loyalists.</span>

**Unchecked civil war causes extinction**
<span class="CiteChar">Manwaring 5</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, VENEZUELA’S HUGO CHÁVEZ, BOLIVARIAN SOCIALISM, AND ASYMMETRIC WARFARE, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Chávez</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span class="UnderlineChar">understands that</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the process </span><span class="UnderlineChar">leading to state failure ... associated problems </span>endanger global security,<span class="UnderlineChar"> peace, and prosperity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 65</span>

===T=== 
====2AC T-Throughout==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C/I-- In means within – this is the core meaning</span>**
<span class="CiteChar">Encarta, 9 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Encarta® World English Dictionary [North American Edition] © & (P)2009, http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620513)</span>

in<span class="UnderlineChar"> [ in ] </span>CORE MEANING ... <span class="resultbodysmallitalic">He spent a whole year in Russia.</span>

====2AC T-Military==== 
*most cards are in the 1AC*

**We meet - Homeporting at Mayport is transportation infrastructure**
Inside Business 11<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Bill includes money for Mayport”, June 17, [[http://insidebiz.com/news/bill-includes-money-mayport]] EG)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The House recommended that $51 million ... </span>homeporting a nuclear aircraft at __[[#|Mayport Naval Station]]__<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

===CP=== 
====2AC Private Condition CP==== 
**Private sector will say no – zero perceived economic benefit because military ports don’t generate revenue – prefer contextual evidence**
Segila et al 11<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Joseph Seliga Partner, Mayer Brown LLP, Berend Paasman Senior Vice President, Infrastructure Finance Americas, HSH Nordbank, Boudewijn Jansen Port Advisor, Rebel Group Advisory. Availability Payment Public-Private Partnerships for Port Projects, [[http://www.mayerbrown.com/files/Publication/f83f06cf-20b5-4152-974b-3d561728c0b9/Presentation/PublicationAttachment/735ab7d8-3c8f-4b0f-92e4-d298819cf896/11266.pdf]])</span>

The Private Sector<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> contracts were successfully executed.</span>
**That means the aff is a DA - lack of certainty collapses alliances and leads to counterbalancing**
Alexandroff 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Dr. Alan S Alexandroff is currently the Director of Online Research and the Director of the Digital20 Project at the Munk School of Global Affairs, the University of Toronto. "The Fear of The "Boogey Man" And Other Thoughts - China as a Great Power", August 30)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is a get tough/stay ... “</span>leading from behind.

**Their net benefit evidence is about things like highways and affs that build infrastructure all over the country and at different levels – the plan is a specific, single military project – and the defense industry isn’t analogous to what their evidence is talking about**
House Committee on Armed Services 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Challenges to Doing Business with the Department of Defense Findings of the Panel on Business Challenges in the Defense Industry. March 19, [[http://armedservices.house.gov/index.cfm/files/serve?File_id=f60b62cb-ce5d-44b7-a2aa-8b693487cd44]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Noted in their report ... taxpayer money in R&D.</span>

====2AC JCS/NMS CP==== 
**You don’t have a solvency advocate – the NMS only controls overseas strategy**
GAO 1<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Military Readiness: Management Focus Needed on Airfields for Overseas Deployments, [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/GAOREPORTS-GAO-01-566/html/GAOREPORTS-GAO-01-566.htm]])</span>

The National Military Strategy calls for ... ensure that the operations of the

**NMS fails – too broad and easily misinterpreted – means it won’t result in the aff**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hills 2</span> (Thomas, National Defense University – Naval War College, JOINT DOCTRINE: OUT OF SYNCH WITH NATIONAL SECURITY STRATEGY
AND TRANSFORMATION, [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a442425.pdf]])

N<span class="UnderlineChar">ational </span>m<span class="UnderlineChar">ilitary </span>s<span class="UnderlineChar">trategy </span>has little operational value ... implementation of<span class="UnderlineChar"> joint </span>doctrine<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

**NMS won’t result in the plan – it’s too arbitrary, gets delayed, and has no enforcement mechanism**
Weitz 11<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (ichard Weitz is a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and a World Politics Review senior editor. Global Insights: The Many Messages of National Strategy Documents, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/7961/global-insights-the-many-messages-of-national-strategy-documents]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The documents are also theoretically ... significant national security risk."</span>

**Links to politics**
Riley 94<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Don, Lieutenant Colonel Don T. Riley N'TIS NTI S CRAMI C. United States Army, A NATIONAL MILITARY STRATEGY PROCESS FOR THE FUTURE, [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a279522.pdf]])</span>

Fourth, the NMS has ... making it difficult to sell to Congress.

=====AT: CMR Net Benefit===== 
**CMR is already past the breaking point - Afghanistan**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wood 11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Wood, has been a staff correspondent successively for Time Magazine , the Los Angeles Times, Newhouse News Service and The Baltimore Sun. A birthright Quaker and former conscientious objector, he covers military issues, foreign affairs and combat operations, and has been a Pulitzer Prize finalist for national reporting. For four years (1977-1980), he covered guerrilla wars in Africa as Time Magazine's Nairobi bureau chief. A Washington-based correspondent since 1980, Mr. Wood has covered national security issues at the White House, Pentagon and State Department, and has reported on conflict from Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East and Central America. During the Cold War he reported from Russia and China, patrolled the inter-German border with American troops on one side and visited a Soviet motorized rifle regiment across the border in East Germany. He reported from Nicaragua during the Sandinista-Contra conflict, and covered the overthrow of President Marcos in the Philippines and the war in Bosnia before and during the U.S. military intervention in 1995. He has written extensively about international conflict resolution, peacekeeping and the post-war rebuilding of civil societies. He has accompanied U.S. military units in the field many times, both on domestic and overseas training maneuvers and in Desert Storm, the Persian Gulf tanker war, the interventions in Panama, Somalia and Haiti, peacekeeping missions in the Balkans and combat operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. He was embedded with the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit in Somalia, and the 10th Mountain and 101st Airborne Division units in Afghanistan in 2002. In four trips to Iraq he has embedded with numerous units including the 2d Armored Cavalry Regiment's 2nd Squadron in East Baghdad, the 1st Battalion, 2nd Marines in al-Anbar and the 386th Air Expeditionary Wing flying resupply missions across Iraq. In five trips to Afghanistan since January 2002, he has lived and worked with the 10th Mountain and 101st Airborne Divisions, the 1st Battalion, 6th Marines, the 82nd Airborne Division’s special troops battalion, the 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry, in RC-East and, most recently, with the 10th Mountain Division’s 1st Brigade in Kunduz, Faryab and Kandahar provinces. He has flown on B-52 and B-1 bombers, slogged through Army Ranger School, accompanied Rangers on night airborne maneuvers and Marines on amphibious and air assault operations, flown off aircraft carriers and sailed on battleships, cruisers, minesweepers and amphibs, and has submerged aboard attack and strategic missile submarines. He has been scared much of his professional life. Wood has written widely across the span of national security issues, from nuclear deterrence theory to combat stress, domestic terrorism, military technology and doctrine, and scarce resources and demographic shifts as causes of instability. In 1992-1993 he spent a year with the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit, including three months of ground operations in Somalia. His account of that experience, A Sense of Values, was published by Andrews & McMeel in 1994. A Pulitzer Prize finalist, he has won the Gerald R. Ford Prize for Distinguished Defense Reporting and other national awards. He has appeared on CNN, CSPAN, the PBS News Hour, WUSA , RTV and the BBC, and is a regular guest on National Public Radio’s Diane Rehm Show. He has lectured at the U.S. Army Eisenhower Fellows Conference , the Marine Staff College, the Joint Forces Staff College and Temple University. Mr. Wood was raised as a pacifist and in 1968 completed two years of civilian service in lieu of military duty. 04/20/11 “Obama White House, Pentagon At Odds Over Libya Policy” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-wood)</span>

CULTURE CLASHES WILL __[[#|CONTINUE]]__ ... next Republican president<span class="UnderlineChar">, too</span>."
**Civil military tensions don’t spill over between issues – no impact**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Szayna and McCarthy ‘7</span>[Thomas S. Szayna – RAND Associate Director, Strategy, Doctrine, and Resources Program, Arroyo Center; Senior Political Scientist, Kevin F. McCarthy - RAND Adjunct Staff . RAND Study “The Civil-Military Gap in the United States Does It Exist, Why, and Does It Matter?” online ]

The Current Security Environment ... survey in the appendix.

====2AC States CP==== 
**No jurisdiction or expertise –**
**A) DOD controls the CVNs**
DOD 11<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Selected Acquisition Report, CVN 78 CLASS As of December 31, 2011 Defense Acquisition Management Information Retrieval (DAMIR), [[http://www.dod.gov/pubs/foi/logistics_material_readiness/acq_bud_fin/SARs/DEC%202011%20SAR/CVN%2078%20CLASS%20-%20SAR%20-%2031%20DEC%202011.pdf]])</span>

The FY 2007 National Defense Appropriations Act<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... funds within the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP).</span>

**B) NNSA controls the nuclear refueling**
NNSA No Date<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (National Nuclear Security Administration, “Powering the Nuclear Navy”, [[http://nnsa.energy.gov/aboutus/ourprograms/powernavy2]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Presidential </span>Executive Order<span class="UnderlineChar"> 12344</span> , 42 U.S.C. Sec 7158, Public Law 98-525 and ... serves as a Deputy Administrator in the National Nuclear Security Administration.

**C) NNSA has __complete__ jurisdiction and the requisite contracting skills**
NNSA No Date<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Powering the Nuclear Navy”, [[http://nnsa.energy.gov/aboutus/ourprograms/powernavy2]])</span>
The Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program comprises the<span class="UnderlineChar"> military and civilian </span>personnel ... Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program Headquarters and field offices.

**D) NNSA has the only contractor capable of creating the right installation components for the plan**
NNSA No Date<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Powering the Nuclear Navy”, [[http://nnsa.energy.gov/aboutus/ourprograms/powernavy2]])</span>
Since the late 1950s, the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program ... nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, submarines, and prototype plants.


===DA=== 
====2AC F-35 Tradeoff DA==== 
**<span class="CiteChar">Plan is funded through Milcon – that’s the navy’s infrastructure budget</span>**
<span class="CiteChar">O’Rourke 12</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]] EG)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Navy’s proposed FY2013 budget ... time due to fiscal constraints.</span>

**That’s distinct from procuring new tech like F-35’s**
DON 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Information Paper: Subject: FY 2013 Department of the Navy (DON) President’s Budget Summary”, February, [[http://www.finance.hq.navy.mil/fmb/13pres/FY_2013_PB_Overview.pdf]])</span>

FY 2013 baseline funding … Infrastructure: $2.4 billion

**F-35 cuts inevitable**
<span class="UnderlineChar">Daggett and Towell 12 (Stephen, Specialist in Defense Policy and Budgets, and Pat, Specialist in U.S. Defense Policy and Budget, “Defense Budget Request: Overview and Context”, April 20, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/R42489.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The largest reduction to the planned … </span><span class="CiteChar">would be a “manageable risk.” 7</span>

**F-35s are unsuccessful – tech failures**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trimble 11</span> ( Stephen, Staff @ FlightGlobal, 11/3, [[http://www.flightglobal.com/articles/2011/03/11/354281/in-flight-failure-leads-to-f-35-grounding.html]])

This is the second grounding order for the F-35 … <span class="UnderlineChar">power requirement for the F-35C.</span>

**F-35s will be sold to Taiwan, causes US-China war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The National Interest 11</span> (Selig S. Harrison, A Chinese Civil War, [[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/chinese-civil-war-4830]])

When China recently unveiled a radar-evading<span class="UnderlineChar"> … </span>prophecies of an adversarial China self-fulfilling.

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Straits Times 2k </span>[Jun 25, LEXIS]

THE high-intensity scenario postulates … sovereignty above everything else<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>


====2AC Radiation DA==== 
**No risk of radiological accident**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NAVFAC 2008</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Naval Facilities Engineering Command, NAVFAC Southeast, “Final EIS for the proposed homeporting of additional surface ships at Naval Station Mayport, FL Vol I: Final Environmental Impact Statement,” November, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ada491893]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The NNPP’s conservative design ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">and Hewlett and Duncan 1974.</span>

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">No environmental impact from the plan—even if some species are effected, they won’t be hurt</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NAVFAC 2008</span> (Naval Facilities Engineering Command, NAVFAC Southeast, “Final EIS for the proposed homeporting of additional surface ships at Naval Station Mayport, FL Vol I: Final Environmental Impact Statement,” November, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ada491893]])
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The focus of these ESA consultations ... any of the species and stocks assessed.</span>



====2AC Elections DA==== 
**Homeporting generates substantial economic activity in Duval Country, Florida**
O’Rourke 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]] EG)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">Serving as the </span>home port for a CVN can generate substantial economic activity ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> generate a total of $671 million in initial economic activity.32</span>
**That means __only__ we control the link –a small vote margin in Duval offsets Romney’s wins in other districts and ensures Obama wins Florida**
Smith 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Adam, Tampa Bay Times Political Editor, “Conservative Duval County in the midst of transition”, July 29, [[http://www.tampabay.com/news/politics/national/conservative-duval-county-in-the-midst-of-transitionbr-br-/1242623]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">JACKSONVILLE — If ever there's a place to see if Democratic enthusiasm for Barack Obama ... GOP electorate far more energized in Duval than four years ago.</span>

**Florida is key to the election**
Oliver 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Chad, NBC, “Florida a key swing state in presidential election”, August 20, [[http://www.nbc-2.com/story/19323865/florida-a-key-swing-state-in-presidential-election]])</span>

FORT MYERS - <span class="UnderlineChar">Experts say </span>Florida is the swing state<span class="UnderlineChar">in this year's election ... Florida's racial diversity makes it a bellwether for the rest of the country. </span>

**Independents aren’t key**
Khan 12 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Huma, staff writer at abcnews.com, “Independent Voters on the Rise but Do They Matter?”, January 9th, abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/01/independent-voters-on-the-rise-but-do-they-matter/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span class="UnderlineChar">Increased independent identification is not uncommon ...</span> less than 10 percent of the actual voters<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**And even if they are, Romney’s winning them by a landslide**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferrechio, 9/11</span>/12
Susan, Chief Congressional Correspondent, Washington Examiner, “Polls show Romney soars with independent voters”, [[http://washingtonexaminer.com/polls-show-romney-soars-with-independent-voters/article/2507679#.UFDJ1KSqHhU|http://washingtonexaminer.com/polls-show-romney-soars-with-independent-voters/article/2507679#.UFDJ1KSqHhU]], BJM

<span class="UnderlineChar">The CNN/ORC International poll of registered and likely voters</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span>If Romney can beat Obama among independents this time, he can win the election<span class="UnderlineChar">."</span>

===<span class="UnderlineChar">K</span>=== 
====<span class="UnderlineChar">2AC Wilderson K</span>==== 
**There are no prior questions and their framework arguments __paralyze politics__.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Owen 2</span> (David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7)

Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that <span class="UnderlineChar">... so a potentially </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">vicious circle arises</span>.

**Ontology focus at the expense of action causes paralysis**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McClean 2001</span> David McClean (philosopher, writer and business consultant, conducted graduate work in philosophy at NYU) 2001 “The cultural left and the limits of social hope” [[http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm]]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There is a lot of philosophical prose … </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-size: 10pt;">Spirit and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Utopia.</span>
**We are rational human subjects - Knowledge is objective – we can use our understanding of our shared reality to make decisions – MAKE THEM PROVE WE ARE WRONG.**
Daniel <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Farber</span> (PhD University of Michigan) and Suzanna Sherry (JD Constitutional Law Vanderbilt University). Beyond All Reason: A radical Assault on Truth in American Law. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>. P. 27

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">At least since the Enlightenment</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-size: 10pt;"> … fiat, or careless investigation.</span>
**Calculation is good and doesn’t devalue life**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Revesz 2008</span> Richard L. Revesz (Dean and Lawrence King Professor of Law at New York University School of Law, JD Yale Law School) and Michael A Livermore. (JD NYU School of Law, Executive Director of the Institute for Policy Integrity, and Managing director of the NYU Law Review). Retaking Rationality How Cots-Benefit Analysis Can Better protect the Environment and Our Health. 2008. P. 1-4.

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Governmental decisions are also </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-size: 10pt;">… bring about a better world</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>

**Political participation with the state is critical for any real change—star this card.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arias 10</span> (Oscar, President of the Republic of Costa Rica and Nobel Peace Prize Winner, //University for Peace: Peace and Conflict//, “Peace needs Messengers,” [[http://www.monitor.upeace.org/innerpg.cfm?id_article=695]])

I am well aware that not everyone … is to fight for peace.
**Perm-Vote <span class="spelle">aff</span> to promote progressive <span class="grame">change, which</span> endorses wise-whiteness as the only method to truly confront white-<span class="spelle">privilege</span>. Simply rejecting ontological whiteness without attempting to fill in in with progressive anti-racist intent simply empowers reactionary racist structures such as the KKK.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shannon Sullivan, 08</span>Penn State University, “Whiteness as Wise Provincialism: Royce and the Rehabilitation of a Racial Category” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society: A Quarterly Journal in American Philosophy, Vol. 44, Num. 2, Spring 2008, Muse

Likewise, whiteness need not conflict … <span class="UnderlineChar">depoliticizing the meaning of those differences.</span>

**The state is inevitable – it’s only a question of how we engage it – bad engagement causes extinction**
Robyn <span class="tagChar0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eckersly 2004</span>__</span> the green state: rethinking democracy and sovereignty p. 5-6

While acknowledging the basis for this antipathy … seeking to transform state power

**Totalizing critiques of whiteness through the lense of anti-blackness commodify races- essentialisms ensure no alt solvency**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hartigan 2005</span>- prof of anthropology @ UT, PhD from University of California, Santa Cruz
(John, South Atlantic Quarterly 104.3, Summer, “Culture against Race: Reworking the Basis for Racial Analysis”)

One might be tempted to assume that <span class="UnderlineChar"> … but seemingly not with culture</span>
**Frontal assaults on whiteness can’t unseat racist systems of thought- Categorically rejected by the adaptive unconscious**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berklak 2009</span> (Ann <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Berlak</span>, Elementary Education Program, San Fransisco State University, 2009, “Challenging the Hegemony of Whiteness by Addressing the Adaptive Unconscious,” in Undoing Whiteness in the Classroom)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (p50-1) </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-size: 10pt;">The theory of the adaptive unconscious</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> … they are not monitoring their actions.</span>
**Anti-Blackness can’t be the root cause- history of other races justifying violence based on racialization**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spickard 2009</span> Paul Spickard, Graduated Harvard, Ph.D in History from UC Berkeley, professor of history at UC Santa Barbara, review of “Amalgamation Schemes: Antiblackness and the Critique of Multiracialism”, in American Studies, vol 5 num 1/2, MUSE

<span class="UnderlineChar">For Sexton</span> (as for the Spencers and Gordon) <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> and that is not a fair assessment.
**THE NEGATIVES JUSTIFICATION MAKES BLACKNESS SPECTACULAR. The 1NC approach of a critical examination of racism serves to OBJECTIY anti-blackness narratives.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hartman ‘97</span>Associate Professor of English @ UC BERKLEY 1997
Saidiya V.- “SCENCES OF SUBJECTION: Terror, Slavery, and Self-Making in Nineteenth-Century America”; pp. 20-21

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> As well, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">we need ask why the site of … and other popular amusements.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">THIS TURNS THEIR CRITICISM, SPILLING THEIR HARMS OVER TO THE DEBATE SPACE ALLOWING FOR COMMODIFICATION</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hartman ‘97</span>Associate Professor of English @ UC BERKLEY 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">97 </span>Saidiya V.- “SCENCES OF SUBJECTION: Terror, Slavery, and Self-Making in Nineteenth-Century America”; pp. 21-23

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> By </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">slipping into the black body and figuratively …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> expectations of the “peculiar institution.</span>
**Your explicit focus black academia flips the poles – if our scholarship is flawed because of its narrow focus then yours is too**
John <span style="font-size: 12pt;">McWhorter</span> (Senior Fellow at the Manhattan Institute, Associate Professor of Linguistics at UC Berkeley after teaching at Cornell University) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span> “Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America” p. 51-4
Under the Cult of Separatism, <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> has learned to speak the language.
**You should hold their arguments to rigorous logical standards and not simply dismiss our evidence as ‘just another link’**
John <span style="font-size: 12pt;">McWhorter</span> (Senior Fellow at the Manhattan Institute, Associate Professor of Linguistics at UC Berkeley after teaching at Cornell University) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span> “Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America” p. 54-5

As the spawn of Victimology, Separatism shares … <span class="UnderlineChar"> reinforcing community self-esteem</span>

**No impact on minorities from the plan**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NAVFAC 2008</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Naval Facilities Engineering Command, NAVFAC Southeast, “Final EIS for the proposed homeporting of additional surface ships at Naval Station Mayport, FL Vol I: Final Environmental Impact Statement,” November, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ada491893]])</span>

As discussed in the preceding sections, <span class="UnderlineChar"> … </span>human __[[#|health]]__ or the environment.




====<span class="UnderlineChar">2AC Hillman K</span>==== 
**Access to scientific data is a __core benchmark__ for policy- good data is key to effective political engagement**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosekind 09</span> [Mark R. Rosekind, Ph.D Kevin B. Gregory Alertness Solutions The Moebus Aviation Report on "Scientific and Medical Evaluationof Flight Time Limitations": Invalid, Insufficient, and Risky Alertness SolutionsJanuary 2009] [ct]

While the extensive sources ... of the questions posed.

**Weak data and subjective policy assessments cause __serial policy failure__- there must be a __uniform standard__**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zellner 07</span> [Arnold Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago Philosophy and objectives of econometrics Journal of Econometrics Volume 136, Issue 2, February 2007, Pages 331-339] [ct]

On the relation of science ... effect unless shown otherwise.”
**We don’t need to embrace war in every instance as long as we don’t engage in pure pacifism. Our heg advantage is an example of this.**
Cavarero 09<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Adriana, Professor of Political Philosophy at the Università degli studi di Verona, Horrorism: Naming Contemporary Violence, p. 63-4]</span>

At the __[[#|start]]__ of the third ... impedes comprehension of it.

**Psychoanalysis only explains individual decisions—not applicable to social experiences or broader governmental decisions**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gordon 1</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">—Psychotherapist</span>
Paul, Psychoanalysis and Racism: The Politics of Defeat, Race Class 2001 42: 17
The problem with ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> therefore nothing can be true</span>.

**Their ev is incoherent psychobabble – it sounds sophisticated but doesn’t mean anything**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mahrer 99</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">Alvin R., professor emeritus at the University of Ottawa School of Psychology, “Embarrassing Problems for the Field of Psychotherapy” John Wiley</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">& Sons, Inc. J Clin Psychol 55: 1147–1156, 1999. p. 1153, via Wiley Inter Science</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">One of the main things ...</span> professional psychotherapists<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

**War isn’t natural- political leaders just frame it as such to justify it. Any evidence you present is correlation, not causation.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stuhr 08</span> [John, Arts and Sciences Distinguished Professor of Philosophy and American Studies, and Chair, Department of Philosophy, Emory University; “A Terrible Love of Hope,” The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, 22:4]

These and related ... the term, educational.

**War isn’t inevitable-it’s a cultural phenomenon**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fry 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Assistant Professor, Department of Anthropology, Eckerd College, St. Petersburg, Douglas P. Fry, "Beyond war", p 220)</span>
Anthropology suggests ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> immense human potential</span>

====<span class="UnderlineChar">2AC Security K</span>==== 
**Reps and epistemology can’t be fully settled – can and should act with some uncertainty**
Cochran 99<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Molly Cochran Assistant Professor of International Affairs @ Georgia Institute for Technology, Normative Theory in International Relations. 1999, Page 272</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To conclude this chapter, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">while </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">modernist and postmodernist</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can be a useful ally to feminist and normative theorists generally.</span>
**Perm – do both. Security is necessary to critically investigate concrete scenarios to help us avoid destructive effects of national security.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Booth 5</span> (Ken, Professor of International Politics @ Wales (Abery Stwyth), “Critical Security Studies and World Politics”)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While criticizing various contending theories, and outlining the case for a specific critical theory</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ...</span> growth of critically informed security __[[#|studies]]__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
**Predictions are good – they create interpersonal connections and support global civil society.**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Fuyuki </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurasawa</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">, Associate Professor of Sociology at York University in Toronto, Canada, 2004, Constellations Vol 11, No 4, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">, Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight http://www.yorku.ca/kurasawa/Kurasawa%20Articles/Constellations%20Article.pdf cp</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Rather than bemoaning </span>the<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> contemporary </span>preeminence ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> become institutionalized via strong publics.</span>
**Heg solves genocide.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rieff 1999</span> (David, deputy editor of World Policy Journal, World Policy Institute, “A new age of liberal imperialism?” accessed via Free Online Library)
But <span class="UnderlineChar">the implications of not doing anything ... one, two, three, </span>many Kosovos<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>
**Realism is inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guzzini 98 </span>(Professor at the Central European University, 1998 [Stefano, Realism in International Relations and International Political Economy]
Third, this last chapter has argued that although the evolution of <span class="UnderlineChar">realism</span> ... best way to<span class="UnderlineChar"> tacitly and </span>uncritically reproduce it.

**Rejecting securitization destabilizes identity—causes more violence.**
Kenneth <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reinhard</span>, Professor of Jewish Studies, UCLA, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>, UCLA Center for Jewish Studies, “Towards a Political Theology of the Neighbor,” http://www.cjs.ucla.edu/Mellon/Towards_Political_Theology.pdf

If the concept of the political is defined, as Carl Schmitt does ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> because they would be identifiable” (PF 83).</span>

**Refusal to identify problems and find pragmatic solutions leads to a fascist takeover**
Ole <span style="font-size: 12pt;">WAEVER</span> Senior Research Fellow @ Copenhagen Peace Research Inst. ‘<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2K</span> in International Relations Theory and the Politics of European Integration eds. Kelstrup and Williams p. 284-285

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The other main possibility is to stress responsibility. Particularly</span> in<span class="UnderlineChar"> a field like </span>__[[#|security one]]__ ... escalations**,**violence and mutual vilification.

=====Empirics Good===== 
**The ONLY objective approach to knowledge accumulation is to engage in empirical falsification through the scientific method and historical decision-making.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fischer</span>, PolSci Professor at Rutgers, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">’98</span> (Frank, Spring, “Beyond Empiricism: Policy Inquiry in Postpositivist Perspective” Policy Studies Journal, Vol 26 No 1, p 129-146)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Neopositivism (or logical empiricism) has supplied ... </span>neopositivists seek to reaffirm and more intensively __[[#|apply]]__.


=====AT: Author Bias===== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The hermeneutics of suspicion makes efforts to forge a better future impossible—they sacrifice pragmatic political change at the altar of paranoid critique.</span>**
<span style="color: #222222;">Paul Schiff </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berman</span><span style="color: #222222;">, Associate Professor at the University ofConnecticut School of Law, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span><span style="color: #222222;"> (“Approaches To The Cultural Study OfLaw: Telling A Less Suspicious Story: Notes Toward A Non-SkepticalApproach To Legal/Cultural Analysis,” Yale Journal of Law & theHumanities (13 Yale J.L. & Human. 95), Available Online to SubscribingInstitutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The second drawback of the hermeneutics of suspicion ... world cannotafford to maintain. 113</span>


====<span class="UnderlineChar">2AC Terror Talk K</span>==== 
**We must recognize terrorism is a legitimate threat while rejecting its militarization—the politics of fear employed by Bush doctrine strategies make endless military intervention, the erosion of rights, and the very conditions for terrorism inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kohn 2009</span> [Richard H., Professor of History and Adjunct Professor of Peace, War, and Defense at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. A two-term president of the Society for Military History (1989–93), he has served on the faculties of the City College of the City University of New York, Rutgers University–New Brunswick, Dickinson College, and the Army and National war colleges, and as the Chief of Air Force History for the U.S. Air Force (1981–91), "The Danger of Militarization in an Endless "War" on Terrorism, Journal of Military HIstory, Volume 73, Number 1, January, Project Muse]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A Global War on Terrorism that may last a generation ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Americans have allowed fear to get the better of them.</span>


**The War on Terrorism is not constructed, nor can it be deterred. Our criticisms of the government won’t deter those who are ready to strike us. This is analogous to how the reactions to post-WWI did not inevitably produce Nazism – it was a group of people taking over state power independently.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elshtain 3</span> (Jean Berthke, Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics, University of Chicago Divinity School, Just War Against Terrorism)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Certain critical events in the past remind us ... </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">threat it poses would not be deterred</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


====<span class="UnderlineChar">2AC Psychoanalysis K</span>==== 
**The K isn’t falsifiable**
Francis J. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mootz 2k</span> II, Visiting Professor of Law, Pennsylvania State University, Dickinson School of Law; Professor of Law, Western New England College School of Law, Yale Journal of the Law & Humanities, 12 Yale J.L. & Human. 299, p. 319-320

<span class="UnderlineChar">Freudian psychoanalysis increasingly is the target of blistering criticism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> plausible according to their own criteria of validation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n66</span>

**That's a prerequisite to evaluating their claims**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lett 91</span> Professor of Anthropology, Department of Social Sciences, 1991 “A field Guide to Critical Thinking” p.32

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It may sound paradoxical, but </span>in order for<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> any </span>claim to be true ... <span class="UnderlineChar">Nonfalsifiable statements are propositionally vacuous.</span>

**Wrong within their own framework - psychological bias runs towards threat deflation- we are the opposite of paranoid.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schweller 4</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Randall L. Schweller, Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at The Ohio State University, “Unanswered Threats A Neoclassical RealistTheory of Underbalancing,” International Security 29.2 (2004) 159-201, Muse]</span>


Despite the historical frequency of underbalancing, little has been written ...<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> intervene to thwart balance of power predictions.</span>
**Disengaging hegemony destroys value to life**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vatter 02</span>(Migel Vatter, Author, “ Politics as war : a formula for radical democracy ?”, [[http://multitudes.samizdat.net/Politics-as-war-a-formula-for]], 10 May 2002)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Schmitt argues that in war it is up to each individual to decide for themselves ... through the prior acknowledgment of the other as other.</span>

**<span class="cite0">No offense-- Friend/Enemy distinctions are inevitable; it is only a question of how we orient ourselves toward it </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norman 09</span>(Emma R. Norman, University of the Americas Puebla, Mexico, Department of International Relations and Political Science, " Applying Carl Schmitt to Global Puzzles: Identity, Conflict and the Friend/Enemy Antithesis", [[http://works.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1000&context=emma_norman]], September 4, 2009)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">The emphasis on the exclusive nature of identity construction leads to the conclusion ... hardest parts of my job is to connect Iraq to the war on terror."27 </span>

=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===T-Repair/Maintenance=== 
====1NC T-Repair/Maintenance==== 
**Infrastructure investment includes only the support for large infrastructure projects – repairs, maintenance, and minor projects aren’t topical**
__**Chang et. al. 10**__ (Diana Chang, Sheryl Pankhurst, Matthew Schneer, and Daniel Schreiner, Monitoring and State Improvement Planning Division Recovery Act Facilitators “MSIP ARRA Monitoring and Technical Assistance” leadershipmega-conf-reg.tadnet.org/.../original_S3-105-ARRA_Technical-RAF.ppt)

__[[#|Financial support]]__ for a physical asset or structure ... “minor remodeling” as defined in 34 CFR §77.1(c).’

==Counterplans== 
===Privatization CP=== 
===**1NC Privatization CP**=== 
**Text – The United States federal government should mandate that public port authorities enter into renewable 50-year lease agreements with private terminal operating companies to operate and maintain United States ports, transfer non-civilian port activities of the Army Corps of Engineers to the Department of the Interior, and abolish the civilian side of the Army Corps of Engineers. The United States federal government should delegate authority over user fees on shippers in United States ports to said private terminal operating companies. The United States federal government should not tax such user fees.**

**CP solves best – “landlord” port authority structures with the ability to charge user fees creates an economic incentive and capability do dredge more efficiently than the plan does**
Connaughton 12 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Sean, The Virginian-Pilot, What would privatization mean? September 30, [[http://hamptonroads.com/2012/09/what-would-privatization-mean]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most common global port operating model … </span> in the Port of Baltimore<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**Army Corps causes cost overruns and engineering failures – turns case**
Edwards 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Chris, CATO Institute, Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers, [[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/usace]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the Army Corps</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has built some … </span> should be closed down<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Overview</span>==== 

Leasing ports leads to better projects and surpluses – empirics prove

Times-Dispatch 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Richmond Times-Dispatch, [[http://www2.timesdispatch.com/news/rtd-opinion/2012/oct/14/tdopin01-yes-ar-2279375/]])</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>there is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> indeed </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> … for the commonwealth.</span>

===Goldman Sachs CP=== 
====1NC Goldman Sachs CP==== 
**Text: Goldman Sachs should <plan>.**

**Goldman Sachs can solve – they’ve done similar projects before and can leverage private capital.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldman Sachs 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (“Direct Private Investing Equity – GS Infrastructure Partners,” [[http://www.goldmansachs.com/what-we-do/investing-and-lending/direct-private-investing/equity-folder/gs-infrastructure-partners.html]]) NYan</span>

__[[#|Goldman Sachs]]__ is one of the largest infrastructure fund <span class="UnderlineChar"> …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> partners/management teams.</span>

**Only the CP solves structural problems with government bureaucracy that tank our transportation infrastructure – the plan doesn’t solve.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Winston 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Clifford, “The Private Sector Can Improve Infrastructure with Privatization Not A Bank,” [[http://www.economics21.org/commentary/private-sector-can-improve-infrastructure-privatization-not-bank]]) NYan</span>

The notion of an “infrastructure bank” seems to <span class="UnderlineChar"> … The private sector does</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">2NC AT - Perm do Both</span>==== 

Stimulus trades off with money and jobs from the private sector—net worse for the economy

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Riedl 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Brian, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, BA in economics and political science from the University of Wisconsin, MA in public affairs from Princeton University. November 19th 2008, “Why Spending Stimulus Plans Fail” The Heritage Foundation [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2008/11/Why-Spending-Stimulus-Plans-Fail]])</span>



Government stimulus bills are <span class="UnderlineChar"> … </span>ufficient to enforce contracts<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.</span>


Crowd out is true and turns solvency

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Riedl 2010</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Brian, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, BA in economics and political science from the University of Wisconsin, MA in public affairs from Princeton University. January 5th, 2010. “Why Government Spending Does Not Stimulate Economic Growth: Answering the Critics” [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/01/Why-Government-Spending-Does-Not-Stimulate-Economic-Growth-Answering-the-Critics]])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Moving forward, the important … will not expand the economy</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.</span>



Public __[[#|investment]]__ is manipulated by project managers who cook the data to win project approval – exaggerates aff benefits and causes massive cost overruns, and means better projects lose out

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flyvbjerg, 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This situation may need some explication, because … major infrastructure projects.</span>

===Climate PIC=== 
====1NC Climate PIC==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in hazard mitigation and emergency preparedness resilient transportation infrastructure in the United States.**

**Adapting transportation infrastructure sans the use of the word “climate” avoids the link to politics**
Lowy 11/22<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Joan, Huffington Post, Climate Change Challenges Transportation System In The U.S., [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/22/climate-change-transportation_n_2174703.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON (AP) — Wild weather is taking a toll on roads, airports, railways ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> talking to state and local officials.</span>
===Adaptation CP=== 
====1NC Adaptation CP==== 

**Text: The United States federal government should ratify the Safeguarding America’s Future and Environment Act.**

**Solves adaptation – develops national and state-level plans**
__**Johnson 11**__ (Brad Johnson on Nov 17, 2011 “Climate Hawk Sheldon Whitehouse Introduces Climate Resilience Legislation” http://thinkprogress.org/green/2011/11/17/370595/climate-hawk-sheldon-whitehouse-introduces-climate-resilience-legislation/)

With incidents of prolonged drought, rising sea levels, and flooding … opposed action to limit climate change pollution.

===Regulations CP=== 
====1NC Regulations CP==== 
**The United States federal government should revise relevant laws, executive orders, infrastructure plans, standards, and agency guidance to incorporate climate adaption into all future transportation infrastructure projects.**

**Solves the aff**
__**Neumann, their author, 9**__ – Resources for the Future think tank [Resources for the Future, “Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms”, December 2009, Resources for the Future Issue Brief 09-15, http://www.rff.org/rff/documents/RFF-IB-09-15.pdf]

The main threats presented by climate change to infrastructure assets … climate change and extreme events.

===States CP=== 
====1NC States CP==== 
**Text: In an appropriate test case, the United States Supreme Court should issue a narrow ruling that federal authority over [insert plan] commandeers the states’ legislative functions in violation of the 10th and 11th Amendments. The Supreme Court should devolve authority of this narrow ruling to the State Governments and United States Territories. The 50 states and relevant U.S. territories should then [insert plan] through the use of state infrastructure banks.**

====1NC Solves - General==== 

**State jurisdiction over transportation infrastructure is comparatively better for the implementation of the plan.**
__**Poole 96**__ – director of transportation policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at Reason Foundation (Robert W., October 1996, “ Defederalizing Transportation Funding,” Reason Foundation, http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf)

Airports, highways, and mass transit systems are primarily … management decisions to state, city, and private decision-makers.

====1NC Solves - Climate Adaptation==== 

**States are working together to develop plans to take control of global warming.**
**__Northrop & Sasson 8__**, Northrop, Michael, Program Director for Sustainable Development at the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, David, Sassoon, runs SolveClimate.com dedicated to debating and advancing solutions to global warming, 06-03-08, “States Take the Lead on Climate” http://e360.yale.edu/feature/states_take_the_lead_on_climate/2015/

The federal government in the Bush era has … publicly demanding a state-federal partnership to proactively address climate and energy issues.

**States can effectively fund climate policies.**
__**Northrop 8**__ Michael [Yale Environment 360, June 3rd – online “ States Take the Lead on Climate” http://e360.yale.edu/feature/states_take_the_lead_on_climate/2015/]

Individually, the size of many of these state economies … for the United States to engage meaningfully in international climate efforts.

====2NC Ext - States Better==== 

**States have the advantage:**

**1. Local expertise.**
Miller 9 (John, Virginia Transportation Research Council Office of Intermodal Planning and Investment, Virginia’s Long-Range Multimodal Transportation Plan 2007-2035 INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION DECISION MAKING, http://www.virginiadot.org/projects/vtransNew/resources/VTrans2035_Decisionmaking_FINAL.pdf)

Several articles have noted that greater local involvement … and knowledge of local conditions.” (Rylander, 2001).

**2. Fewer cost overruns and delays.**
__**Slone 11**__ (Sean Slone is a Health Policy Analyst at Council of State Governments, “State Infrastructure Banks”, July 5, 2011, http://knowledgecenter.csg.org/drupal/content/state-infrastructure-banks)

When transportation projects are __[[#|financed]]__ in a traditional way, funds from a state … Better, more benefit-producing projects can be the result.4

**3. Greater overall efficiency and quality.**
__**Poole 11**__ - director of transportation policy at the Reason Foundation, MIT-trained engineer, has advised the previous four presidential administrations on transportation and policy issues. He is a member of the Government Accountability Office's National Aviation Studies Advisory Panel and he has testified before the House and Senate's aviation subcommittees on numerous occasions (Robert W., March 7, 2011; “Interstate 2.0,” http://www.weeklystandard.com/print/articles/interstate-20_552551.html?page=3)

The defining issue of our time is figuring out how to reduce the scope and cost of … bloated scope of the current program.

**4. Faster implementation and construction.**
__**Miller 9**__ John is an American journalist and a former government official. He is the former Associate Deputy Director of National Intelligence for Analytic Transformation and Technology, http://www.virginiadot.org/projects/vtransNew/resources/VTrans2035_Decisionmaking_FINAL.pdf

One reason is an increase in efficiency that results from local … or eliminated in order to expedite the design and construction of the project.

====2NC AT - No Investors==== 

**We straight turn this argument – investors are uniquely more likely to invest in SIBs than USFG projects.**
__**GAO 96**__ (Government Accountability Office, “State Infrastructure Banks: A Mechanism to Expand Federal Transportation Financing”, October, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/GAOREPORTS-RCED-97-9/pdf/GAOREPORTS-RCED-97-9.pdf)

Ten of the states we surveyed viewed SIBs’ ability to attract … businesses that would benefit from an improved transportation network.

**States would draw from a number of investment sources, private and public.**
__**AASHTO 11**__ (Center for Excellence in Project Finance & U.S. Department of Transportation, “State Infrastructure Banks: Credit Enhancement”, 2011, http://www.transportationfinance.org/funding_financing/financing/credit_assistance/state_infrastructure_banks.aspx)

SIBs serve as a flexible and useful tool to meet a state's project financing demands, … considerations are factors to be weighed by states in evaluating a leveraged SIB approach.

==Disadvantages== 
===Elections DA=== 
====1NC Obama Bad (Greenhill)==== 

**Romney leading – prefer unskewed polls that balance the electorate to any of the polls that favor Obama.**
__**Chambers 9/18**__/12 Dean, Examiner, “Mitt Romney vs. Barack Obama: An unskewed look at the latest polls”, http://www.examiner.com/article/mitt-romney-vs-barack-obama-an-unskewed-look-at-the-latest-polls, BJM

There are exactly seven weeks left today before Election Day in November … are included in the UnSkewed Average of Polls.

**Spending on transportation infrastructure requires capital – empirics prove**
__**AP 10-7**__ (Associated Press, “WHY IT MATTERS: Creaky bridges, potholed roads, tricky politics,” Washington Post Politics, October 7, 2012, http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/why-it-matters-creaky-bridges-potholed-roads-tricky-politics/2012/10/08/07e948d8-1108-11e2-9a39-1f5a7f6fe945_story.html)

The issue:¶ From bridges to broadband, America’s infrastructure is supposed … federal transportation spending, which finally passed after nine temporary extensions.

**Obama election causes Congressional gridlock—the nation will fall off the fiscal cliff and hit the debt ceiling—crashes the economy and turns case**
__**Klein 12**__ (Erza, columnist for The Washington Post, columnist for Bloomberg, contributor to MSNBC, The Washington Post, “The Keynesian case for Romney ,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/the-keynesian-case-for-romney/2012/06/04/gJQAIETuDV_blog.html)

Even if you disagree with every one of Mitt Romney’s policies, there’s a … debt ceiling the moment a Romney win became clear.

**Economic decline causes protectionism and war – their defense doesn’t assume accompanying shifts in global power.**
__**Royal 10**__ – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of … featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

====1NC Link - General==== 

**Funding Transportation Infrastructure popular and can swing elections – prefer ev about likely voters.**
__**HNTB 12**__ National highway __[[#|survey]]__ polled a random nationwide sample of 1,024 Americans April 2-10, 2012. It was conducted by Kelton Research. Quotas were set to ensure reliable and accurate representation of the total U.S. population ages 18 and over. The margin of error is +/- 3.1 percent. HNTB Corporation is an employee-owned infrastructure firm serving public and private owners and contractors. With nearly a century of service, HNTB understands the life cycle of infrastructure and solves clients’ most complex technical, financial and operational challenges. “Americans value highways and bridges as a national treasure” – May 18th – http://www.hntb.com/news-room/news-release/americans-value-highways-and-bridges-as-a-national-treasure

A new survey from HNTB Corporation finds two-thirds (66 percent) of Americans … bridges than continue current funding levels and risk allowing our roads and bridges deteriorate.

====2NC Impact - Hegemony==== 

**Romney will purchase F22s**
__**McCoy 9/13**__/2012 (Daniel, Wichita Business Journal, “Romney wants more F-22 Raptors for Air Force,” http://www.bizjournals.com/wichita/news/2012/09/13/romney-wants-more-f-22-raptors-for-air.html)

Republican Presidential candidate Mitt Romney says he not only … its plant in Seattle, Wash.

**They’re key to the military.**
__**Forbes 9**__ (Steve, President and Chief Executive Officer of Forbes and Editor-in-Chief of Forbes magazine, honorary doctorate in economics from Stevenson University “Resurrect the Raptor” 9/7/9 http://www.forbes.com/forbes/2009/0907/opinions-steve-forbes-resurrect-the-raptor.html)

The Obama Administration has successfully killed the fabulous … military capabilities in all areas--conventional and unconventional.

**Military heg key to solve nuclear war.**
__**Gray 5**__ – Professor and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies at the University of Reading (Colin S, “How has war changed since the end of the cold war?”, Parameters, Pg. 14(13) Vol. 35 No. 1)

Logically, the reverse side of the coin … of the triad of motives for war: "fear, honor, and interest." (23)

===Fiscal Cliff DA=== 
====1NC Fiscal Cliff==== 

**Fiscal cliff will be resolved in the status quo, economy will rebound**
__**Pannozzo, 10/16**__/12
Andrea, John Thomas Financial, PR Web, “John Thomas Financial Chief Economist, Mike Norman, says Economy Improving, but Fiscal Cliff Remains a Concern”, http://www.prweb.com/releases/prweb10017821.htm, BJM

John Thomas Financial Chief Economist, Mike …reached before the New Year.


**Obama has the influence to prevail in fiscal cliff negotiations now**
__**Sprung, 9/21**__ (Andrew Sprung is a political commentator & media consultant. He is the CEO of Sprung PR and hold a PhD from the University of Rochestor, “Ezra Klein's unconvincing theory that Obama misunderstands (or misrepresents) "change," http://xpostfactoid.blogspot.com/2012/09/ezra-kleins-unconvincing-theory-that.html)

Obama also used the bully pulpit at crucial points, if not to rally … who want to decide who you can marry, or control health-care choices that women should make for themselves.

**Going over the fiscal cliff causes a second great depression**
__**M****orici 8/7**__ Peter, PhD, is a "recognized expert on economic policy and international economics." He is a Professor of International Business at the R.H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland. "Fix fiscal cliff now or face next Great Depression," 2012, http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/08/07/fix-fiscal-cliff-now-or-face-next-great-depression/

President Obama and Republicans are engaging in dangerous ... only $300 billion annually, such a shock would thrust it into a prolonged contraction.

**Goes nuclear.**
__**Mead 9**__ – Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)

If current market turmoil seriously damaged the performance … if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

**Sequestration would destroy our nuclear triad’s capabilities—specifically the bomber**
__**Maginnis 11**__ (Robert Maginnis is a retired Army lieutenant colonel, and a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television, ‘CATASTROPHIC’ DEFENSE CUTS SEEN AS TIPPING POINT OF U.S. MILITARY SUPREMACY, 10/20/11, Human Events)

Our nuclear deterrence could diminish. Cuts would undermine our nuclear triad… tipping point for America as the world’s leading military power.

**Nuclear deterrence stops global nuclear war**
__**Caves 10**__ (John P, Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National Defense University, January, Strategic Forum, No. 252, “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” da 11/16, mat)

Perceptions of a compromised U.S. nuclear deterrent as … what nuclear-armed terrorists alone could inflict.

==Kritiks== 

===Chow K=== 
====1NC Chow K==== 

**The affirmative occupies the position of the Maoist – their anti-Orientalist polemics effaces the subject position of the so-called “suffering Other.”**
__**Chow 93**__ (Rey Chow, Professor of English 0061nd Comparative Literature, and Director of the Comparative Literature Program at the University of California, Writing Diaspora: tactics of intervention in contemporary cultural studies, pp 15-17)

The Orientalist has a special sibling whom I will, in order … a puritanical alternative to the West in human form—a dream come true.

**This locks-in an investment in the oppression of the Other about whom we are allowed to speak. The other is confined to a position of perpetual lack.**
__**Chow 93**__ (Rey Chow, Professor of English 0061nd Comparative Literature, and Director of the Comparative Literature Program at the University of California, Writing Diaspora: tactics of intervention in contemporary cultural studies, pp 12-15)

In the 1980s and 1990s, however, the Maoist is disillusioned … do we intervene in the productivity of this overdetermined circuit?

**This knowledge production strategy is the enabling mechanism of modern apocalyptic warfare – the west is continually re-anchored as “center” and the east peripheralized as global target.**
__**Chow 6**__ (Rey Chow, Professor of the Humanities at Brown, The Age of the World Target, pp. 38-41)

In the decades since 1945, whether in dealing with the … of a definable object" —and by "the problem of the vanishing object."55

**Our framework – the role of the modern Western intellectual is not to interrogate oppression, but how we deal with and interrogate our privileged positions which allow us to speak in the first place.**
__**Chow 93**__ (Rey Chow, Professor of English and Comp Lit, Writing Diaspora: tactics of intervention in contemporary cultural studies, pp 17)

While the struggle for hegemony remains necessary for … in the military no less than in the academic sense?

===First Priority K=== 
====1NC First Priority K==== 

**The silence of the 1AC is strategic—at best, their lip-service to the first priority of violence against American Indians avoids confronting the primordial justification of the violence their 1AC. Their progressive struggle will fail, because its progress will only occur on STOLEN LAND.**
__**Churchill 96**__ (Ward Churchill, Former Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder [“I Am Indigenist,” From A Native Son pgs 520-30)

I’ll debunk some of this nonsense in a moment, but first I want to take up the … status quo to continue imposing a racist, sexist, classist, homophobic, militaristic order on non-Indians.

**And, their omission is not neutral—it obscures the fact that the most egregious structural violence in America is perpetuated against Native Americans**
__**Churchill 92**__ (Ward Churchill, Codirector of the Colorado chapter of the American Indian Movement. A previous professor at the University of Colorado/Boulder, “Fantasies of the Master Race.” pg. 7-9)

The true cost to native people bound up in the complex of relations … which the U.S. status quo has erected and maintains itself.

**Historical amnesia of colonial dispossession maintains white supremacy: The most important necessary cause of white supremacy is white possession: The idea that we can take something and say “that’s my property” by right. The very act of starting with slavery & migration hides the reality of where we live. Rather than begin with slavery, our historical analysis of white supremacy starts with and centers appropriation of indigenous land and its relationship to white possessiveness.**
__**Moreton-Robinson 8**__ (Aileen, “Transnational Whiteness Matters”, p. kindle)

Despite the colonial history of the United States and racializing Native Americans in … within the United States of America and is fundamental both to its establishment and to its continued existence.

**The continuing genocide of Native America puts all life on earth at risk**
__**Friedberg 2K**__ (Lilian Friedberg, author and political activist with a master's degree in the humanities from the University of Chicago and is currently a doctoral candidate in Germanic Studies at the University of Illinois at Chicago, Dare to Compare: Americanizing the Holocaust, The American Indian Quarterly 24.3 (2000) 353-380)

This is not to deny or diminish the clear and present danger in the ominous … the specter of committing collective suicide--exercising the authority of the sovereign over life and death on all our behalf.

**Thus, the alternative is to advocate the topic as a site to avow the displacement, theft, and genocide of Native Americans as America’s first policing apparatus. Politics invariably requires the establishment of priorities—ours should be this: First Priority to First Americans**
__**Churchill 96**__ (Ward Churchill, Former Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder, “I Am Indigenist,” From A Native Son pgs 89-94)

The question which inevitably arises with regard to indigenous land claims, … it time we all went to work on attaining it?

===Security K=== 
====1NC Security K==== 

**The affirmative operates within a framework of nation-state security that leads to serial policy failure.**
__**Burke 7**__ (Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in Theory & Event, Vol. 10, Iss. 2)

This tells us much about the enduring power of … violence as necessary policy responses, however ineffective, dysfunctional or chaotic.

**Insecurity is inevitable – their ontological commitment to global order renders all life calculable and is the root cause of violent conflict.**
__**Burke 7**__ (Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in Theory & Event, Vol. 10, Iss. 2)

By itself, such an account of the nationalist ontology of … human lives are reduced to tools, obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.

**The alternative is to refuse security – only a radical break allows us to forge new ways of thinking.**
__**Neocleous 8**__ (Mark Neocleous, Prof. Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History at Brunel University – West London, “Critique of Security,” p. 184-6)

The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, … to be brave enough to return the gift.143

====1NC Link - Deterrence==== 

**Let’s the clear, the argument that “deterrence has worked” is flat-out bad argumentation. It ignores that correlation does not equal causation, and relies on un-provable arguments. Deterrence is an ideology, not an empirical fact – it doesn’t “work” in the sense that it prevents wars; it “works” in the sense that it causes war planners to hold the world hostage – this means we do solve the root cause and they do not.**
Ron __**Hirschbein 5**__ Professor of Philosophy and Director of the Peace Institute at California State University, Chico Amassing the Tropes p 104ff

Advocates of automatic deterrence are generally well … imagination and agendas because attempts to liken the arsenal to a deterrent or to a provocation can be neither confirmed nor disconfirmed.

====2NC Ext - Framework==== 

**We access the only internal link to policy education**
__**Biswas 7**__ (Shampa Biswas, Politics @ Whitman College, “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist” Millennium 36 (1) p. 117-125)

The recent resuscitation of the project of Empire should give International … (rather than techno-expertise) in the most fundamental and important senses of the vocation.21

**You are not a policy-maker—pretending you are absolves individual responsibility for violence—ensures the aff’s impacts are inevitable and is an independent reason to vote neg**
__**Kappeler 95**__ Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11

We are the war' does not mean that the responsibility for a war is … result of a collective human choice and therefore subject to human control. 12

====2NC AT - Threats Real==== 

**There are no objective threats—the discourse we use is how we understand reality**
__**Bleiker 9**__ (Roland, October 11, Millennium: Journal of International Studies, 2001. ISSN 0305-8298. Vol. 30, No. 3, “The Aesthetic Turn in International Political Theory,” pp. 521-522)

A slightly different way of conceptualising postmodern approaches would …, as detached observer, can produce value-free knowledge.55

==Past Negative Strategies== 
===Greenhill RR=== 

Round 1 2NR v. Bronx BK - Climate Adaptation: States CP, Elections DA (Obama Bad)
Round 3 2NR v. Centennial MK - Climate Adaptation: Security K
Round 6 2NR v. GBS SW - Bering Strait: First Priority K

===Greenhill=== 

Round 2 2NR v. Colleyville Heritage - Bering Strait: States CP, Elections DA (Obama Bad)
Round 3 2NR v. University of Chicago GF - Space Ports: China DA, Heg Bad
Round 5 2NR v. Bingham GH - Immigration Ports: Chow K

===St. Mark's=== 

Round 2 Pembroke Hill LF (Disabilities):
1NC - T-Maintenance, Fiscal Cliff DA, Courts CP, Framework, Chow K, Util Good
2NR - Fiscal Cliff DA, Case

Round 3 Pembroke Hill GS (Disabilities):
1NC - T-Maintenance, Fiscal Cliff DA, Courts CP, Framework, Chow K, Util Good
2NR - Fiscal Cliff DA, Case

Round 5 Woodward SD (Minimum Threshold for Bridges/Roads):
1NC - China Steel DA, States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Stimulus Bad, Case
2NR - China Steel DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case

===Meadows=== 

Round 1 Brophy HS (Destroy Dams):
1NC - Fiscal Cliff DA, Courts CP, States CP, T-Increase/Construction, Framework/Util
2NR - T-Increase/Construction

Round 3 Juan Diego FW (DAR):
1NC - Fiscal Cliff, T-Military, XO CP, Security K, Heg Bad
2NR - Fiscal Cliff, Heg Bad

Round 6 Juan Diego KW (DAR):
1NC - Fiscal Cliff, T-Military, XO CP, Security K, Heg Bad
2NR - Fiscal Cliff

===Glenbrooks=== 
Round 1 Pembroke Hill FL (Disabilities):
1NC - T-Maintenance, Courts CP, Chow K, Fiscal Cliff DA, Framework, Util Good
2NR - Framework, Courts CP, Fiscal Cliff DA

Round 3 Iowa City West YM (Port Dredging):
1NC - T-Maintenance, Security K, Fiscal Cliff DA, State Bonds CP
2NR - State Bonds CP, Fiscal Cliff DA

Round 5 Chattahoochee KL (Disabilities):
1NC - T-Maintenance, Courts CP, Ethics PIC, Framework, Fiscal Cliff DA, Util Good
2NR - Ethics PIC

Round 7 Brophy WS (Destroy Dams):
1NC - T-Increase/Construction, Framework, Fiscal Cliff DA, Lopez CP, Army Corps Tradeoff DA, Util Good
2NR - Framework, Fiscal Cliff DA

Doubles New Trier KS (Bikes):
1NC - Framework, Oil DA, Lopez CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Util Good
2NR - Lopez CP, Fiscal Cliff DA

===MBA=== 
Round 1 Ransom Everglades (Zizek Slum Dwellers)
1NC - Chow K, Infinite Demand CP, Framework
2NR - Chow K

Round 3 St. Mark's (NIB)
1NC - T-Financing, Goldman Sachs CP, Immigration Politics DA, Security K, Stimulus Bad
2NR - Goldman Sachs CP, Immigration Politics DA

Round 5 Centennial (Climate Adaptation)
1NC - Climate PIC, Lopez CP, Adaptation K, Immigration Politics DA
2NR - Immigration Politics DA, Case

===Golden Desert=== 
Round 1 Ashland BK (Icebreakers)
2NR - Immigration DA and Case

Round 3 Saratoga HJ (Abjection)
2NR - Framework

Round 5 Rowland Hall RW (Homelessness)
2NR - Framework

Octas San Dieguito HW (ITS)
2NR - 8 Minutes Hate

Semis Gulliver SZ (Bonds)
2NR - Goldman Sachs CP and Immigration DA

===Berkeley RR=== 
Round 1 Centennial HS (NIB)
2NR - Goldman Sachs CP and Immigration DA

Round 3 GBN KS (Space Elevator)
2NR - T

Round 6 Carrollton DS (Icebreakers)
2NR - 8 Minutes Hate

===Berkeley=== 
Round 1 Nevada Union GW (Ruralism)
2NR - Interpassivity K

Round 4 Sage Ridge CL (PPSP)
2NR - Security K

Round 5 Bingham GH (Mexico Borders)
2NR - Framework

Triples St Marks GJ (NIB)
2NR - Plan Flaw, Politics, Case

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]