<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>


For aff cites or questions email Julian at [[mailto:asilisjulian@gmail.com|asilisjulian@gmail.com]]
For neg cites or questions email Jake at [[mailto:jakesoria62098@gmail.com|jakesoria62098@gmail.com]]
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">National Infrastructure Bank </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Glenbrooks </span>=== 
====**Econ Advantage**==== 

**Recovery will stall --- recession is coming**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">UN ’12</span> (Updated in Early 2012 “World Economic Situation and Prospects” “The present report is a joint product of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN/DESA), the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the five United Nations regional commissions (Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), Economic Commission for Europe (ECE), Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) and Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA)).”
Prospects for the world economy in 2012-2013 ...... against the pressures for adjustment.

**New transportation investment is vital to __[[#|employment]]__, innovation and the environment**
Walker ’11 (et al, ,- Dave Walker is founder and CEO of the Comeback America Initiative. He served as the seventh comptroller general of the United States and as head of the U.S. Government Accountability Of􏰀ice Bill Bradley,- former managing director of Allen & Company LLC. Tom Ridge,- president and CEO of the international con- sulting 􏰀irm Ridge Global, headquartered in Washington, D.C. He served as the nation’s 􏰀irst secretary of the U.S. Department of __[[#|Homeland Security]]__ David “Road to Recovery: Transforming America’s Transportation” http://carnegieendowment.org/files/road_to_recovery.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 7px;">These shortfalls in our federal transportation program do not justify abandoning ..... </span>drivers of sustainable development.

**Innovation checks extinction**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Heaberlin ’04</span> (Scott, led the Nuclear Safety and Technology Applications Product Line at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, 2004 “A Case for Nuclear-Generated Electricity” pg 45-6)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Cohen looked at all the various population estimates ...... However, it is a road that can lead to a happier place, a better place.</span>

**Infrastructure deficiencies put a __ceiling__ on growth --- investment is necessary to break the cycle**
**Likosky, 11** [Michael B. Likosky, //senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge at NYU//, July 12, 2011, “Banking on the Future”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/13/opinion/13likosky.html]]]
__FOR decades, we have neglected ....... we possess modern infrastructure.__

**No Advantage Cps - reform is a prerequisite to recovery**
**Davidson, 5/20** (Paul, 5/20/2012, “USA's creaking infrastructure holds back economy,” [[http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-20/creaking-infrastructure/55096396/1]], JMP)
__Inland waterways quietly keep ...__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">at lower costs," Caterpillar Chief Financial Officer Ed Rapp says of the move.</span>

**Confidence is collapsing destroying investment --- NIB is a key __short term stimulus__ that __doesn’t drive up the deficit__**
Skidelsky & Martin, 11**[**Robert Skidelsky, //Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick,// and Felix Martin, //macroeconomist and bond investor//, March 30, 2011, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]]]
<span style="font-size: 9px;">But could a National Investment Bank also help ...... </span>assets for pension __[[#|funds]]__ and other long-term investors.

**Recovery isn’t sustainable --- NIB is key to stimulate the economy and boost __[[#|jobs]]__**
Skidelsky & Martin, 11**[**Robert Skidelsky, //Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick,// and Felix Martin, //macroeconomist and bond investor//, March 30, 2011, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]]]
<span style="font-size: 9px;">President </span>Obama<span style="font-size: 9px;"> is in a bind. ...... </span>bring to the//broader economy//<span style="font-size: 9px;">.</span>

**Prefer expert studies --- the plan is a __uniquely beneficial__ form of stimulus**
Tyson, 11[Laura D. Tyson, //Chan Chair in Global Management at UC Berkeley's Haas School of Business,// 2011, “A Better Stimulus Plan for the U.S. Economy”, http://hbr.org/web/extras/hbr-agenda-2011/laura-d-tyson]
<span style="font-size: 9px;">Although stimulus spending is a politically contentious ..... The time has come to make it happen.</span>

**None of their generic turns apply – NIB uniquely secures private investment and investor confidence**
Tyson, 10[Laura Tyson, P//rofessor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, was chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers and the National Economic Council in the Clinton administration. She is a member of President Obama's Economic Recovery Advisory Board.// August 29, 2010, “Why We Need a Second Stimulus,” NYT, Lexis]
OUR national debate about fiscal policy..... should be jobs and investment<span style="font-size: 9px;">.</span>

**__Support__ for __EXPANDED__ P3s is high, but lack the __necessary capacity__ – a national infrastructure bank serves as a critical model**
LIKOSKY ET AL ’11 - senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge, New York University (Likosky, Michael. Josh Ishimatsu. Joyce Miller. “RETHINKING 21ST - CENTURY GOVERNMENT: PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND THE NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE BANK”. June, 2011. http://www.ssrc.org/workspace/images/crm/new_publication_3/%7B2c5cfcc9-6b9e-e011-bd4e-001cc477ec84%7D.pdf)
<span class="Underline">In an era of severe budgetary constraints ..... fiber-optic cables around the globe</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>

**The threat of a devastating cyber attack is real – P3 is critical to solve cyber-security cooperation**
FARRELL ’11 - deputy chief of staff for the US Air Force; Program for Senior Executives in National and International Security, Harvard University (“To Improve Cyber-Security, U.S. Needs Cohesive Public-Private Partnership”. February, 2011. http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/February/Pages/ToImproveCyber-Security,USNeedsCohesivePublic-PrivatePartnership.aspx)
For the Pentagon<span class="Underline">, </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">which operates ....... </span>transported by private companies<span style="font-size: 11px;">.”</span>

**Great power escalation.**
**Fritz, 2009**
[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 11px;">This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism ........ </span>__and control centres directly.__

Global instability results without the plan
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Raja ’12</span> (Kanaga,- Editor of the South-North Development Monitor (SUNS),
hich is published by the Third World Network “Expansionary policies needed to avoid a new recession”)
<span class="Underline">The world stands ..... urgent challenges of our age</span>," concluded UNCTAD.

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic decline triggers nuclear war</span>
Harris and Burrows 9<span class="Underline"> (</span>Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]], AM)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses …</span> __in a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">more </span>__dog-eat-dog world.__

Prefer our evidence – __statistical__ support
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Less intuitive is how periods …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>

**Independently, growth solves war**
**Yee 99** – B.Sc. (Econs) from the London School of Economics and Political Science; Singaporean infantry officer (Major Tan Yan, Jan-March. “Democratisation, Interdependence, and the Prospects for Future War.” Journal of the Singapore Armed Forces, V25 N1 . http://www.mindef.gov.sg/safti/pointer/back/journals/1999/Vol25_1/7.htm)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like the Democratic Peace Proposition, the notion … to prevent war from happening.</span>

**Growth causes __global coordination__ – solves extinction and sustainability**
**Hefner 9** (Robert, Founder and Owner – GHK Explorations, //Grand Energy Transition: The Rise of Energy Gases, Sustainable Life and Growth, and the Next Great Economic Expansion//, “Chapter 14: Crisis and Opportunity,” p. 219-222)
<span class="Underline">There will be nothing more transformational …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> might slow down this opportunity for you and for all humanity. We must all work together to jet the GET!</span>

**Growth is the __largest__ impact – __empirically__ accesses all others**
**Weede 08** [Erich, professor at the Institute for Political Science and Sociology, “Globalization and Inequality” Comparative Sociology 7, p. 415-433]
__Globalization refers to an increasing international …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it is fortunate that the two demographic giants of this world seem to prosper under global capitalism.</span>

====**Plan**==== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment through a national infrastructure bank.**

====**Solvency**==== 
Only a federal NIB solves --- take outs are wrong
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thomasson ’11</span> (Scott,- Economic and Domestic Policy Director Progressive Policy Institute “Hearing before the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit“National Infrastructure Bank: More Bureaucracy and Red Tape”)
The idea of establishing a national infrastructure bank<span class="TitleChar"> to ...... </span>state banks is entirelymisplaced.


**federal action is key for large scale projects and effectiveness**
**McConaghy & Kessler, 11** --- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND **Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]], JMP)**
**<span style="font-size: 11px;">America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods ....... </span>**__enduring infrastructure investments.__**


=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Framework </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">First is topicality –</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">‘resolved’ means to enact a policy by law.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Words and Phrases 64 (Permanent Edition)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Definition of the word “resolve,”….as meaning “to establish by law”.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And, “United States Federal Government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ericson, 03 (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Proposition of Policy: Urging Future … side in such a debate is to offer sufficient and compelling reasons for an audience to perform the future action that you propose. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">topic education – competitive policy debate is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lewis and Williams, 99 (David, Ph.D., President, Hickling Lewis Brod Economics, Inc., and Fred Laurence, Ph.D., United States Department of Transportation, “Policy and Planning as Public Choice Mass Transit in the United States,” Ashgate Publishing Company, pg. 27-33,[[http://www.fta.dot.gov/documents/Policy_and_Planning_as_Public_Choice.pdf]], Tashma)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A primary goal of the research reported in …. have been impatient with difficult measurement. </span>
== == 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kritiks </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Capitalism K </span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Infrastructure investment is a tool of the capitalist state—people, values and goods all become commodities to be transported</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Giddens and Held 82 (Anthony and David; M.A. and Ph.D. in economics, Prof. at Cambridge, Director of the London School of Economics, he has 15 honorary degrees; Master of University College, Durham, professor of politics and international relations at Durham University; “Classes, Power and Conflict: Classical and Contemporary Debates”; Pg. 253)RSW</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">7. Policies which pursue the goal of reorganizing, …. which are willing and able to defend the reformist policies of the capitalist state against the obstructive resistance of the capitalist class itself.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Capitalism results in neo-imperialist wars, the destruction of the environment and the subjugation and genocide of entire sections of the population</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Everest 12 (Larry; correspondent for Revolution newspaper; 5/24/12; “WAR AND GLOBAL CAPITALISM: “Money for Jobs Not for War”: American Chauvinism and Reformist Illusions” [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=31024]])RSW</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">“Money for Jobs and Education! Jobs and Education, ….and state that is in the actual interests of the people in the U.S. and around the world.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative as an instance of capital– only through a radical rejection of the system can we avoid extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Herod 4(James, author of several books on capitalism, Getting Free, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It is time to try to describe, at first abstractly and later …. for its own sake, and to establish in its place a society of free people who democratically and cooperatively self-determine the shape of their social world. </span>
=== === 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Taoism K </span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Insecurity is inevitable – attempts at control fail – propagates security dilemma</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Der Derian 98 (James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No other concept in international ...... identities calcifying into a fearful sameness.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth—</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kirkland, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, 2001</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Russell, “'Responsible Non-Action' in a Natural World: Perspectives from the Neiye, Zhuangzi, and Daode jing,” Daoism and Ecology: Ways within a Cosmic Landscape, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the Taoist classic Huai-nan-tzu, one finds a famous story ....... simply acceptingthe new state of things.’</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Take no action to achieve desired ends</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kirkland, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, 1996</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Russell, “The Book of the Way,” Great Literature of the Eastern World, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Specifically, the Tao is ..... thwart its unceasing operation. </span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Disadvantages </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fiscal Cliff DA</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fiscal cliff compromise now</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Taylor 11/16</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Andrew, Associated Press, 11/16/12, [[http://www.wlfi.com/dpps/news/politics/whitehouse/obama-fiscal-cliff-is-urgent-business-nd-12-jos_4984756]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Congressional leaders are expressing confidence they can reach a deal ..... an ultimatum against renewing them for top income earners. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Capital is resolve long-term fiscal policy.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Atkins, 11/8/2012 (Kimberly, Prez returns to D.C. with more clout, Boston Herald, p. http://bostonherald.com/news/columnists/view/20221108prez_returns_to_dc_with_more_clout)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">When President Obama returned yesterday to the White House, ...... more power to push back.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economy Scenario</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fiscal cliff overwhelms economic resiliency --- there are no more checks.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Naroff, 11/11/2012 (Joel – president and chief economist of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc., "Fiscal cliff' poses risks of another recession, Philly Inquirer, p. [[http://www.philly.com/philly/business/20121111__quot_Fiscal_cliff__poses_risks_of_another_recession.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Now that the election is over, it is time to get back to reality. Unfortunately, ....... , and that is a risk most people don't want to take.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Auslin 9 (Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman – Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">What do these trends mean in the short and medium term? ..... series of small explosions that coalesce into a big bang. </span>
====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Democracy Scenario </span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fiscal cliff overwhelms economic resiliency --- there are no more checks.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Naroff, 11/11/2012 (Joel – president and chief economist of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc., "Fiscal cliff' poses risks of another recession, Philly Inquirer, p. [[http://www.philly.com/philly/business/20121111__quot_Fiscal_cliff__poses_risks_of_another_recession.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Now that the election is over, it is time to get back to reality. ..... , and that is a risk most people don't want to take.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Growth is key to sustainable democracy and equality, that is good </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Acemoglu et al 8 (Daron, Professor of Economics – Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Income and Democracy,” The American Economic Review, Vol. 98, No. 3, pp. 808-842. JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">One of the most notable empirical regularities in …. Dietrich Rusechemeyer, John D. Stephens, and Evelyn H. Stephens 1992).</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Counterplans </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">States CP</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The 50 state governments, the territories, and Washington DC should invest in a Title XI loan guarantee funding for short sea transportation in the United States , audit their transportation programs to maximize efficiency, eliminate duplication and waste, and authorize any necessary increase in user fees to finance the plan.The 50 states and all relevant territories should enact legislation to facilitate interstate cooperation and provide for multijurisdictional planning on transportation infrastructure investments.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">States solve – reforms overcome solvency deficits</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Puentes, 11- senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Robert, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">III. A New State Approach An emphasis on fiscal …., that vote came in November 2008, right it the middle of the economic downturn. 23 Governors should encourage this kind of self help.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NC - Port Security </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">State and Local Governments Solve Port Security </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Frittelli, 05 – Specialist in Transportation Resources, Science, and Industry Division, Congressional Research Service (John F., May 27, 2005, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress,” CRS, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Port Governance and. even or are minimally profitable. 32</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Port Governance and Financing. In considering how to enhance seaport security …. Most ports generally break even or are minimally profitable.32</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">EIS CP </span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text – The United States Federal Government should initiate an environmental impact and life cycle assessment regarding the consequences of </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">expanding United States Maritime Administration Title XI loan guarantee funding for short sea transportation in the United States</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">and adopt such a measure if, and only if, it complies with said assessment. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">cp solves the aff and avoid environmental consequences</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gilpin 2k (Dr. Alan, Commissioner of Inquiry for Environment and Planning with the New South Wales Government, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA): Cutting Edge for the Twenty-first Century, p. 14-15</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Life cycle EIA ..... major infrastructure developments.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Reforming the process is critical for transportation policy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Schenck 09 – Institute for Environmental Research and Education American Center for Life Cycle Assessment (Rita, February 22nd, “The Business Case for Life Cycle Assessment in US Policy and Legislation” http://lcacenter.org/Data/Sites/1/SharedFiles/whitepapers/thebusinesscaseforlca.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Over the last forty .... get for the impacts they absorbe</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cp builds international support and spills over– solves extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Purvis, 03 –Nonresident Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institute (Nigel, “Greening U.S. Foreign Aid through the Millennium Challenge Account” Brookings Institute, June, http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2003/06/energy-purvis SW)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Third, the global environment ....... ensure a level international playing field for U.S. companies.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">EIS CP (vs. Critical Affs)</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text – The United States federal government should initiate an environmental impact and life cycle assessment regarding the consequences of investment in the construction and maintenance of rural transportation infrastructure in the United States </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government should implement the least environmentally damaging alternative identified in the results of its assessment.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">cp solves the aff and avoid environmental consequences</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gilpin 2k (Dr. Alan, Commissioner of Inquiry for Environment and Planning with the New South Wales Government, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA): Cutting Edge for the Twenty-first Century, p. 14-15)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Life cycle EIA is a procedure for …. major infrastructure developments. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Reforming the process is critical for transportation policy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Schenck 09 – Institute for Environmental Research and Education American Center for Life Cycle Assessment (Rita, February 22nd, “The Business Case for Life Cycle Assessment in US Policy and Legislation”[[http://lcacenter.org/Data/Sites/1/SharedFiles/whitepapers/thebusinesscaseforlca.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Over the last forty years, NEPA has …. they get for the impacts they absorb.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">key to devastated communities</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Johnson 97 – Professor of Law @ Mercer</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Stephen, “NEPA and SEPA's in the Quest for Environmental Justice,” Digital Commons @ LMU, Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review, Hein Online</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In many cases minority and low-income …. can reach a decision that achieves its goal without disparately impacting minority or lowincome communities. 38</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This impact should be preferred – be skeptical of the affirmative’s advantage because they ignore environmental externalities that devastate minority communities</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bullard and Johnson 2k - *PhD in Environmental Sociology, Professor of Public Affairs, **Professor of Sociology @ Clark</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Robert and Glenn, Environmental Justice: Grassroots Activism and its Impact on Public Policy Decision Making, Journal of Social Issues,[[http://www.unc.edu/courses/2005spring/epid/278/001/Bullard2000JSocIssues.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The environmental protection apparatus in the United … public health and the environment.</span>
=== === 
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Neg. Strats</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Glenbrooks</span>== 
===**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 1 vs. Highland Park WW (Camus) </span>__**=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc: Taoism K, Framework, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: Framework </span>

===**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 3 vs. Niles West NP (Port Security) </span>__**=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc: T, States CP, Cap K, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA </span>

===**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 6 vs. St. Paul Central BF (Ruralism) </span>__**=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc: EIS CP (Critical) , States CP, Cap K, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: EIS CP, Case </span>

===**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 7 vs. Harker MS (Title XI) </span>__**=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc: EIS CP, States CP, Cap K, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: EIS CP, Case</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]