=Jan-Feb= 
===Util AC=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A IS THE FRAMEWORK</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The evolutionary need to justify choices to others requires adopting an impartial evaluation of preferences. **Singer**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Peter Singer [Prof. of Bioethics, Princeton University], __The Expanding Circle: Ethics and Sociobiology__. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux (1981), p. 92-94. </span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Maximizing preferences is the most defensible approach from an impartial point of view. **Singer 2**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Peter Singer [Prof. of Bioethics, Princeton University], __The Expanding Circle: Ethics and Sociobiology__. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux (1981), p. 92-94. </span>


**Thus,** the standard is **net benefits.**

Rehabilitation is distinct from traditional criminal sanctions. **Lipsey** and **Cullen[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]** ’07:
**__Rehabilitation__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> treatment </span>**__is distinguished from correctional sanctions by the centrality of interactions with the offenders aimed at motivating, guiding, and supporting constructive change in__****__whatever__****__characteristics or circumstances__****__engender their criminal behavior__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> or subvert their prosocial behavior. </span>**__It is__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> typically </span>**__provided in conjunction with__****__some__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> form of </span>**__sanction__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (e.g., incarceration or pro- bation) </span>**__but is not defined by that sanction__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and, in principle, could be delivered with- out any accompanying sanction. Cognitive- behavioral therapy, for instance, involves exercises and instruction designed to alter the dysfunctional thinking patterns exhibited by many offenders [e.g., a focus on dominance in interpersonal relationships, feelings of en- titlement, self-justification, displacement of blame, and unrealistic expectations about the consequences of antisocial behavior (Walters 1990)].</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I contend that criminal justice policies associated with rehabilitation reduce crime.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">First is Social Disempowerment</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The paradigm of punishment ignores the state’s obligation to address the causes of crime and instead perpetutates the problems it seeks to solve. This punitive criminal justice project institutionalizes control and dependency. Imprisonment becomes a way of marginalizing outsiders and creating an underclass of recalcitrant individuals and their communities. **Wacquant**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Loic Wacquant—2008. [Professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Institute for Legal Research, Boalt Law School, University of California at Berkeley]. The Place of the Prison in the New Government of Poverty in: After the war on crime: race, democracy, and a new reconstruction by [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Mary+Louise+Frampton%22|Mary Louise Frampton]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Ian+Haney-L%C3%B3pez%22|Ian Haney-López]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Jonathan+Simon%22|Jonathan Simon]]. NYU Press. JS.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">More than the … civalized wage work.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must break out of the mindset of incarceration. This myopic perspective ignores the social dimensions of crime and the widespread impact of criminal justice policy. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wacquant 2</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Loic Wacquant—2008. [Professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Institute for Legal Research, Boalt Law School, University of California at Berkeley]. The Place of the Prison in the New Government of Poverty in: After the war on crime: race, democracy, and a new reconstruction by [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Mary+Louise+Frampton%22|Mary Louise Frampton]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Ian+Haney-L%C3%B3pez%22|Ian Haney-López]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Jonathan+Simon%22|Jonathan Simon]]. NYU Press. JS.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grasping the changing … of convict labor.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The impact is cyclical poverty, crime, oppression, and exclusion. **Ferrell**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Mark W. Lipsey and Francis T. Cullen—5 July 2007. [Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University and Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati]. The Effectiveness of Correctional Rehabilitation: A Review of Systematic Reviews. Annual Review of Law and Social Science. Vol, 3, pp. 297–320. JS.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As the interactionist/labeling … claims, falsely, to solve.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second is Recidivism</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Rehabilitation in the form of CBT and MST are extremely effective at reducing recidivism rates. Multiple meta-analyses as well as reviews of meta-analyses have soundly concluded that it works. **Cullen** and **Gendreau** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #141413; font-size: 6pt;">Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice. JS.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Even if interventions … the interventions “doubles” (p. 98).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Prefer my meta-analytic evidence to isolated studies or individual examples of failure. **Cullen** and **Gendreau2**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #141413; font-size: 6pt;">Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice. JS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">There are, however... interventions they initiate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Taken as a whole, the evidence indicates that rehabilitative therapy lowers recidivism rates by approximately twenty percent. According to the**Bureau of Justice Statistics**, a twenty percent decrease in recidivism nationally translates to nearly 100,000 fewer repeat offenders being sent to prison every single year.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Since the average repeat offender is charged with more than four crimes at a time, that means nearly 4 million fewer crimes a decade. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The direct harm of recidivism has three impacts. **Wilson**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #231f20; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The effects of recidivism … cannot be understood.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">OUR OWN IMAGE NC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality.**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">To evaluate ethical judgements we must //first// untangle our ontological commitments about who is and is not included in the “us” and the “them.” This requires analyzing how policies frame our capacity to apprehend lives. **Butler 1** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We ask such … who will not. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **preventing exclusion from our frames of reference** and preventing control of life by power because</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">First,</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Debate and academica do not take seriously the voices of victims or the complexity of social struggles. **Prosise, et al 1** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">While this emphasis … of logical types.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed allowing us to commit the worst possible violence to them. **Butler 2**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” //Studies in Gender & Sexuality// 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Lives are supported … qualifies for recognition.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Rehabilitation puts peoples lives directly in the government’s hands. It attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. It directly destroys the individual, forcing them to be “cured” in order to best serve society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>