[[toc]]
If you want cites beyond what is posted here or anything please email me at pyroelectricity@gmail.com and I will try to get back to you asap.
(Since I've gotten these requests) Please do not ask me to just "disclose all your cards" or "tell me what cases you are running." If I run a case, the cites will be up here. If you want to see a specific card, then please email me.
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SIGN IF YOU HAVEN'T ALREADY! [[http://www.debatersagainstsexism.org/]]</span>= 
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Legal Norms AC=== 
I value government obligations
Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy defines ought as
**__The principle term with which we express obligation and duty,__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">but also the conclusion of less weighty practical reasoning: ‘if we want a drink we ought to find a café.’</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Res questions gov action, so only gov obligations relevant.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Standard: **Maintaining Consistency with Constitutional Norms**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Constitution is foundational body of law in US</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**First**</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;"> Justice is socially constructed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">David Hume [Scottish Philosopher, #1 Bro], __An Inquiry Considering the Principles of Morals__, in the version presented at www.earlymoderntexts.com (1758), p. 8</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Let’s</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> suppose </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">that... list of virtues.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Moreover, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">there is no universal conception of obligations because there are no self-evident statements from which to derive such obligations. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jurgen Habermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], __The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory__. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 36-37</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">sentence or</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">proposition... </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">all future objections.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">the validity of any normative order is grounded in certain foundational, socially constructed norms. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hans Kelsen—1978. [A</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">ustrian jurist and philosopher of law]. Pure Theory of Law. University of California Press, pp. 193.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">To understand the... a basic norm.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> The norms that we agree upon are the laws.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Anthony D’Amato—1992-1993. [Judd & Mary Morris Leighton Professor of Law, Northwestern University]. On the Connection Between Law and Justice. U.C. Davis Law Review. Vol. 26, pp. 527</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The greatest fear... </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">to the law.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">But this doesn't mean slavery is ok because we value freedom more. We need to keep examining our practices.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">I contend that interpretation of Supreme Court precedent and the constitution requires due process for terrorists.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Right now, detainees are seldom given the constitutional right to habeas corpus,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Aronofsky, David, J.D., Ph. D., Legal Counsel at University of Montana]. “The War on Terror: Where We Have Been, Are, And Should Be Going.” Denver Journal of International Law and Policy. Winter 2011/Spring 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">As Matt and... is a mess</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">due process rights are not absolute protections.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Cole, David. Professor of Law. Georgetown University. “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens.” Thomas Jefferson Law Review. 2003</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">To assert </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">that... differently for some.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">the Supreme Court rules in Boumediene v. Bush 2008 that non-citizens held in Guantanamo Bay were entitled to writs of habeas corpus, Habeas is the central component to Due Process Protection.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Geltzer, Joshua. “Of Suspension, Due Process, and Guatanamo: The Reach of the Fifth Amendment after Boumediene and the Relationship Between Habeas Corpus and Due Process.” Pennsylvania Journal of Constitutional Law. 2012</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Indeed, muchlike... the Bivens context).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Constitution delineates which protections are for citizens and which are for persons. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cole 2</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">While some distinctions... on their nationality.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Third, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">checks between branches of the government is the most fundamental purpose of the constitution. Habeas maintains the judicial check on abuse of power. **Geltzer 2**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Justice</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kennedy’s opinion ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">with judicial enforcement.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Finally, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">even if I lose my interpretation of the constitution, the Supreme Court also appealed to normative reasons for respecting due process rights of non-citizens. **Cole 3**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The normative idea... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">of ordered liberty.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> "</span>



==Negative== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**KSM NC**</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">Justice takes on new meaning in political context. **Rawls**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">John Rawls. 1987. //The Idea of an Overlapping Consensus.// Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 7, No. 1 (Spring, 1987), pp. 1-25. MO.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The first feature […] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">that structure alone. </span>__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">A scheme of justification for the government must relate to the desires of its citizens. **Houser**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Houser, Susan K. //Metaethics and the Overlapping Consensus.// Ohio State Law Journal, Fal 1993. MO.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Government, </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">on the […] should be wide-circle.1</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the standard is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">consistency with public reasons.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">A variety of concerns people spoke up about demonstrate a trend against constitutional rights for terrorists. **Stimson**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Stimson, Cully. [Heritage Foundation] //Escape From New York: Obama Retreats on KSM Trial.// 29 January 2010. The Heritage Foundation Blog. MO.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Today, the **__Obama__** […] force their hand**__.__** </span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Sept/Oct:-NEG:--DECLARE WAR CP]]**DECLARE WAR CP**</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">A is the Text: The United States Congress will declare war on Al Qaeda</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">B is the Competition: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">If we declare war on Al Qaeda, then we can no longer try terrorists in federal courts. **Wedgwood ’02** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Ruth [Edward B. Burling Professor of International Law and Diplomacy; Director of the International Law and Organizations Program at Johns Hopkins University]. “Al Qaeda, Terrorism, and Military Commissions.” //American Journal of International Law//. JE.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">accepted **__use__** […] a military court."'</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">C is the Solvency:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Article 13 in Part II of the Geneva Convention clearly bans torture against prisoners of war,</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Prisoners of war </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">[…] **__war are prohibited__**.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Citizenship NC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">I value government obligations</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">gov obligations different than regular obligations because:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">1. Government is comprised of multiple agents</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">2. Government has a purpose</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">this is sufficient to take out the AC framework</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Resolution asks for obligation of US specifically, so what US is is relevant</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Standard: Maintaining the status of citizenship</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">1. Exclusivity embodies the identity of a state</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Preuss, Ulrich K. [Professor of Law and Politics, Free University Berlin] //The Ambiguous Meaning of Citizenship//, paper presented at the UChicago Law School to the Center for Comparative Constitutionalism, December 1, 2003. MO. </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ccc.uchicago.edu/docs/preuss.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">We know from history... status of a citizen</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">democratic government requires mutual accountability throughout society.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Traboulsi, Berge J. [Assistant Professor of History, Religion, and Intercultural Studies @ Haigazian University Beirut] //Citizenship in Multicultural Lebanon: a Critical Approach,// in Annales de philosophie et des sciences humaines, No 23, t. 2, 2007, pg 97-113. MO.</span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Democracy is </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">literally... discrimination, favoritism, and bribery</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Citizenship gives people a stake in a mutual political project </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Preuss 2**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">This brings me ...</span>**__everybody trusts everybody.__**


**I contend that non-citizens cannot be subject to the same rights and guarantees as citizens.**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> It doesn’t make sense for an exclusive system to treat noncitizens equally. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Parrish, Austen L. [Associate Professor of Law, Southwestern University School of Law] //Sovereignty, Not Due Process: Personal Jurisdiction Over Nonresident Alien Defendants.// Wake Forest Law Review, 2006, Vol 41, No 1. SSRN. MO.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The case law is ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> invoke ‘constitutional rights.’”</span>__**



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Single-Payer AC=== 
A is framework:
The evolutionary need to justify choices to others requires adopting an impartial evaluation of preferences. Singer
Peter Singer [Prof. of Bioethics, Princeton University], The Expanding Circle: Ethics and Sociobiology. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux (1981), p. 92-94.
The transformation must… shall soon see.
Maximizing preferences is the most defensible approach from an impartial point of view. Singer 2
Reasoning in ethics… ought to take.
Thus, the standard is net benefits.
B IS RISK ANALYSIS
We should adjust risk analysis based on common sense - disregard enormous impacts because prior experience disqualifies the probability of catastrophe. Karnofsky
Holden Karnofsky. “Why We Can't Take Expected Value Estimates Literally (Even When They're Unbiased)”. 18 August 2011. Co-Founder of GiveWell, a non-profit charity evaluator (decides whom to give money) Harvard ’03. “An EEV approach…of life experience.”
An EEV approach… of life experience.
And, low probability, high magnitude impacts should be discounted – Disads with long or tenuous link chains have such a low probability that we should round probability down to zero. Herbeck and Katsulas
Dale A. Herbeck and John P. Katsulas – 1992. [Professor of Communication and Director of the Fulton Debating Society at Boston College, and, Debate Coach at Boston College]. “The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate,” Paper Presented at the 78th Annual Meeting of the Speech Communication Association (Chicago, IL), October 29th-November 1st, Available Online via ERIC Number ED354559, p. 10-12
First, and foremost… risks in debates.

C IS THE PLAN
The United States will implement a single-payer health care system in which all health care is paid for by the government. Doctors and hospitals will be privately owned. Patients can choose where and how they receive care, but the government pays for the care. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify.
D IS ADVANTAGES

FIRST IS THE FISCAL CLIFF

A IS INHERENCY
The parties’ positions on how to address the deficit are diametrically opposed. No compromise will be reached before automatic tax hikes and spending cuts take effect. The Money Update 9/5
The Money Update. [Published by Redhawk Research Group, a SEC-registered investment adviser] 5 September 2012, Accessed 16 November 2012. Riding Over the Fiscal Cliff Into 2013. [[http://themoneyupdate.com/riding-over-the-fiscal-cliff-into-2013/]]
Congress Will Probably… the debt limit.
B IS HARMS
The fiscal cliff takes $400 billion out of the economy, triggering recession. The Money Update 2
The Money Update. [Published by Redhawk Research Group, a SEC-registered investment adviser] 19 September 2012, Accessed 16 November 2012. What If Congress Lets Us Go Over The Fiscal Cliff? http://themoneyupdate.com/what-if-congress-lets-us-go-over-the-fiscal-cliff/
Those who feel… that will be?
Fiscal cliff sends unemployment skyrocketing and kills the economy. Morici
Morici, Peter. [Economist, Professor of Business at University of Maryland] Off the fiscal cliff and into the great abyss. November 12, 2012. Accessed 16 November 2012. Fox News.
Negotiations to avert… banks would fail.
Job loss and financial hardship exacts a tremendous human cost. Dao and Loungani
Dao, Mai, and Loungani, Prakash. The Human Cost of Recessions: Assessing It, Reducing It. November 11, 2010. IMF Staff Position Note, IMF Research Department.
The human and… stress and depression.

C IS SOLVENCY
Single-payer saves $400 billion, the amount that will be lost from the fiscal cliff. This money is freed up for investment, offsetting the harm of the fiscal cliff. Mitchiner explains
Mitchiner, James C. [Physicians for a National Health Program, Emergency Physician in Ann Arbor MI] It’s Time for Single Payer. AMERICAN COLLEGE OF EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS News 7 Aug 2012.
Given our current… 3% per year.


Single payer saves massive amounts of money by consolidating overhead and procedures. Weisbart

Weisbart, Ed. [Ed Weisbart, MD, CPE, is a founding member of the Saint Louis chapter of Physicians for a National Health Program, a single-issue organization advocating a universal, comprehensive single-payer national health program; a faculty member at Washington University of Saint Louis; chief medical officer at Rx Outreach, a nonprofit mail-order pharmacy providing affordable medications for people in need; and a volunteer in a variety of safety-net clinics across the country. Formerly, he was a family medicine practitioner and then the chief medical officer of Express Scripts.] A Single-Payer System Would Reduce U.S. Health Care Costs. Virtual Mentor: The AMA Journal of Ethics, November 2012, vol 14, no 11, 897-903. Physicians for a National Health Program.
A second problem… reverse the crisis

SECOND IS ACCESS TO CARE

A IS INHERENCY
There are many people who cannot get any form of health care. Even Medicaid expansion has not solved because states refuse to pay and some people who need it don’t qualify. Goodman
[[@http://www.webmd.com/health-insurance/news/20120629/who-gets-covered-under-health-reform]]. “Who Gets Covered Under Health Reform?” [[http://www.webmd.com/brenda-goodman|Brenda Goodman]]. WebMD Health News. June 29, 2012
The court's decision… Kaiser Family Foundation.

B IS HARMS
A lack of health insurance prevents access to health care and increases the chance of death death. Woolhandler and Himmelstein
Woolhandler, Stephanie and Himmelstein, David. Healthcare Reform 2.0. social research Vol. 78, No. 3. Fall 2011
Obviously, our health… Sanders of Vermont.

C IS SOLVENCY
A single-payer system can provide health care to all. Mitchiner 2
Mitchiner, James C. [Physicians for a National Health Program, Emergency Physician in Ann Arbor MI] It’s Time for Single Payer. AMERICAN COLLEGE OF EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS News 7 Aug 2012.
Given that the… to the physician.

THIRD IS PROFIT MOTIVE

A IS HARMS
Competition in health care drives up prices. Relman
Relman, Arnold S. Eliminate the Profit Motive in Health Care. [Professor Emeritus of Medicine and Social Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Former Editor-in-Chief, New England Journal of Medicine] Tikkun, 24 September 2009. Physicians for a National Health Program.
But the estimate… rarely lowering prices.

Medical prices cause personal bankruptcies and prevent access to care. Woolhander and Himmelstein 2
Woolhandler, Stephanie and Himmelstein, David. Healthcare Reform 2.0. social research Vol. 78, No. 3. Fall 2011
The problems in… bills over time
B IS SOLVENCY

Single-payer reduces the cost of providing healthcare. Weisbart 2
Weisbart, Ed. [Ed Weisbart, MD, CPE, is a founding member of the Saint Louis chapter of Physicians for a National Health Program, a single-issue organization advocating a universal, comprehensive single-payer national health program; a faculty member at Washington University of Saint Louis; chief medical officer at Rx Outreach, a nonprofit mail-order pharmacy providing affordable medications for people in need; and a volunteer in a variety of safety-net clinics across the country. Formerly, he was a family medicine practitioner and then the chief medical officer of Express Scripts.] A Single-Payer System Would Reduce U.S. Health Care Costs. Virtual Mentor: The AMA Journal of Ethics, November 2012, vol 14, no 11, 897-903. Physicians for a National Health Program.
A Single-Payer System… universally needed services.
And this also solves fiscal cliff bc it saves $
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Public Plan Option AC</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Part 1: What is Universal Healthcare?</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Definitions of Universal Health Care are inconsistent across different authors; there are only a few consistent themes in definitions of Universal Health Care. **Stuckler et al.** 2010:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[David Stuckler [. University of Oxford, UK]. Andrea B Feigl [London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK]. Sanjay Basu [Harvard School of Public Health, USA]. Martin McKee [University of California San Francisco, USA]. “The political economy of universal health coverage.” This paper is one of several in a series commissioned by the World Health Organization for the First Global Symposium on Health Systems Research, held 16-19 November, 2010, in Montreux, Switzerland.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A large body of research … than mutually exclusive.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The WHO definition best characterizes UHC as it is used in the literature. **Stuckler et al.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[David Stuckler [. University of Oxford, UK]. Andrea B Feigl [London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK]. Sanjay Basu [Harvard School of Public Health, USA]. Martin McKee [University of California San Francisco, USA]. “The political economy of universal health coverage.” This paper is one of several in a series commissioned by the World Health Organization for the First Global Symposium on Health Systems Research, held 16-19 November, 2010, in Montreux, Switzerland.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Towards an … desired ends (e.g. financial risk protection)</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Part 2 is the Framework:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Moral claims have to be grounded in concrete experience, rather than abstract, ahistoric principles which are ethically bankrupt. Ethical theories must be based in actual social realities. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">**Ryn** </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Claes G. Ryn</span>//</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">—1992. “Universality and History:The Concrete as Normative” From </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.nhinet.org/hum.htm|HUMANITAS]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">, Volume VI, No. 1, Fall 1992/Winter 1993 ©</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.nhinet.org/index.htm|National Humanities Institute]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">, Washington, DC USA. TC</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">The reasons why …</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> stifling philosophical renewal.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Oppression is a social reality that ethics must be grounded in. Morality is the struggle to humanize,. This struggle is contextualized by a struggle against dehumanization, the result of oppression. In order for humanization to commence, it becomes necessary to resist oppression in all its forms.**Freire:**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Freire, Paulo. //Pedagogy of the Oppressed.// New York: Continuum, 2000. Print</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">While </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">the problem …</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">in turn </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">dehumanizes the oppressed.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **minimizing oppression.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Further, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">prefer this standard because:</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">1.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> To evaluate ethical obligation we must //first// untangle our ontological commitments about who is and is not included in the “us” and the “them.” This requires analyzing how policies frame our capacity to apprehend lives. Without untangling these commitments, it is impossible to evaluate normative judgments. **Butler** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Butler, Judith. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Frames of War</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;"> (2009), 138</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">explains: </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We ask</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">such</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> **__… those who will not__**. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">2.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed allowing us to commit the worst possible violence to them. **Butler 2**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Studies in Gender & Sexuality</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;"> 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Lives are supported and maintained …qualifies for recognition.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We cannot allow certain groups of individuals to be excluded from our frames of reference or else our normative systems will fail and unimaginable violence will be done against those people.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Part 3 is the Plan:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The United States Federal Government will implement a system of Public Plan Choice, involving a public insurance plan and a health insurance exchange that allows private insurers to exist and compete with the public plan. I reserve the right to clarify. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: Calibri;">Peter **Harbage and** Karen **Davenport**explains the plan </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Competitive Health</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Care: A </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Public Health Insurance</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Plan That Delivers Market Discipline." //Competitive Health Care: A Public Health Insurance Plan That Delivers// </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Market Discipline</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. Center for American Progress Action Fund, Mar. 25 2009. <[[http://www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/2009/03/public_plan.html]]>.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Key to the Massachusetts ….today if they so choose.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This public option has been implemented in San Francisco and Massachusetts. **Dow et al:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">William Dow, Arindrajit Dube, and Carrie Colla. “A Public Option that Works” August 2009.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Answers might be found …. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">in the private-insurance market.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Part 4 is the Advantages:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">A1 is Poverty:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Calibri;">There are many people who cannot get any form of health care in the status quo. Even Medicaid expansion has not solved because states refuse to pay and some people who need it don’t qualify. **Goodman** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.webmd.com/health-insurance/news/20120629/who-gets-covered-under-health-reform]]. “Who Gets Covered Under Health Reform?” [[http://www.webmd.com/brenda-goodman|Brenda Goodman]]. WebMD Health News. June 29, 2012.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The court's decision … Kaiser Family Foundation.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">And, the lack of affordable health care traps the poor in poverty and closes off life options. Marshall:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Norman Daniels (Tufts University). Justice, Health, and Health Care. [[http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/benchmark/ndaniels/pdf/justice_health.pdf]] National Healthcare and American Constitutional Culture, William P. Marshall, Kenan Professor of Law, University of North Carolina., Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">One of the most sustaining … who we are as nation.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">A2 is Competition</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: Calibri;">Peter **Harbage and** Karen **Davenport** explain why a Public Plan Option increases competition and fixes our broken healthcare system.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Competitive Health</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Care: A </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Public Health Insurance</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Plan That Delivers Market Discipline." //Competitive Health Care: A Public Health Insurance Plan That Delivers// </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Market Discipline</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. Center for American Progress Action Fund, Mar. 25 2009. <[[http://www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/2009/03/public_plan.html]]>.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Doctors and patients, employees …. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri;">have the same innovation.</span>__</span>**

**A3 is Racism**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">There is a significant racial and ethnic disparity in health care access. Richardson and Norris 2010:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Lynne D. Richardson, MD, FACEP, and Marlaina Norris, MD, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY , “Access to Health and Health Care: How Race and Ethnicity Matter”, MOUNT SINAI JOURNAL OF MEDICINE 77:166–177, 2010. RFK</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As previously mentioned... and health status.</span>


<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Peter **Harbage and** Karen **Davenport 2** explain how Public Plan choice solves for this issue </span>

<span style="color: #366388; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Health</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> Care: A </span><span style="color: #366388; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Public Health Insurance</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> Plan That Delivers Market Discipline." //Competitive Health Care: A Public Health Insurance Plan That Delivers// </span>//<span style="color: #366388; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Market Discipline</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">. Center for American Progress Action Fund, Mar. 25 2009. <http://www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/2009/03/public_plan.html>.</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; line-height: 24px;">Even among people... seeking such services.</span>


==Negative== 
===Biopower NC=== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The standard is **preventing exclusion from our frames of reference** because</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">1. To evaluate this judgment we must //first// untangle our ontological commitments about who is and is not included in the “us” and the “them.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span>

We ask such… who will not.

2. <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">It is impossible to determine //who// we have obligations to without interrogating norms that exclude certain people form our frame of reference.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 3-4</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The epistemological capacity… facilitate that recognition.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">UHC controls lives.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">1. Any system of UHC has to choose what is and isn’t covered. This controls what is ok to be and what is ‘diseased’</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">Conrad, Peter and Barker, Kristin. //The Social Construction of Illness: Key Insights and Policy Implications.// Journal of Health and Social Behavior, 51(S) S67-S69. Sagepub. MO.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Eliot Freidson’s (1970) paradigm-shifting… Lupton 1997; Rose 2006)</span>**__.__**


2. UHC forces people to work for our benefit.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">Bernard, Ivan T. [Professor of History @ UCLA] //Foucault and the Welfare State//. European Review, 2005, Vol 13, No 4.</span></span>

For the first… and high salaries

===Biotech DA=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">A) is the uniqueness</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">. Biotechnology is growing now. The industry is recovering well from the economic crisis. **Noonan summarizes Burrill:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Kevin Noonan writing on a speech by Steve Burrill. “Docs at BIO: Steve Burrill’s State of the Biotechnology Industry Report 2011.” July 5, 2011. Biotechnology Industries Organization International Convention.</span>
The underlying theme… in Stanford v. Roche).

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">B) is the Link: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Universal health care destroys biotechnological innovation. **Fazio**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jacome Fazio, managing editor of the Northwestern Chronicle and weekly contributor to the D.C. Writeup, **09** ( Ryan “Public Option will pull the plug on medical innovation” [[http://www.thedcwriteup.com/2009/07/public-option-will-pull-the-plug-on-medical-innovation]] ) </span>

America, we often… innovation requires investment.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">C) is the internal link. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Biotech key to prevent and cure AIDS. Biotechnology Institute Organization:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">( “AIDS: A Terrible Pandemic”, Your World, Biotechnology and You, </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.biotechinstitute.org/resources/YWarticles/9.2/9.2.1.pdf]])</span>
Meanwhile, ever hour… prevent new infection.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">D is the impact.</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> Mutation and spread of AIDS ensures extinction. **American Computer Science Association:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> ("U.N.: HIV Epidemic continues to Spread" American Computer Science Association [[@http://www.acsa2000.net/aids/global_aids_ap.htm#ross|http://www.acsa2000.net/aids/global_aids_ap.htm#ross ]])</span>
At a 12%... will eventually win.

===Free Market CP=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">A) **is the Counter-plan text:** Congress ought pass legislation repealing the Affordable Care Act and lift regulations on health care services that existed before Obamacare, thus embracing a free-market system. </span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Hughes </span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">outlines how health care in the United States is heavily regulated currently.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Jill Elaine Hughes – [</span>[[http://www.phoenix.edu/colleges_divisions/business.html|__University of Phoenix School of Business__]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">] “Is universal health care really anti-capitalist?” June 8, 2011. [[http://www.phoenix.edu/colleges_divisions/business/articles/2011/06/is-universal-health-care-really-anti-capitalist.html]]</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Manoj Pawar, MD,… open, competitive market.</span>


B is the competition: aff has to defend government interference in healthcare

C is the net benefits:

Innovation relies on a free market. Tanner
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Michael Tanner. “A Fork in the Road: Obama, McCain, and Health Care” No. 104 July 29, 2008</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">American research and… higher in Canada.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Laissez-faire economics would solve for the current inefficiencies in the system promoting cheaper prices and innovation. Gratzer</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. David Gratzer. The Cure: How Capitalism Can Save American Health Care. 2006.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">In a normal… their high prices.</span>
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LEGACY AC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity. **Cummiskey**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ‘90</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We must not … some to save many.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The fundamental logical properties of moral words are that they are universalizable and prescriptive. **R. M. Hare[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">My hope then … ‘ought’, and (//a fortiori//) ‘must’.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This means that agents must decide whether to endorse maxims regardless of their own unique position. To determine whether we would will a maxim for all similarly situated agents, we must give equal weight to other’s preferences. **Hare[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]** **2:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">I mention these … to maximize satisfactions.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the standard is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">net benefits.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B IS RISK ANALYSIS</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We should adjust risk analysis based on common sense - disregard enormous impacts because prior experience disqualifies the probability of catastrophe. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Karnofsky</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Holden Karnofsky. “Why We Can't Take Expected Value Estimates Literally (Even When They're Unbiased)”. 18 August 2011. Co-Founder of GiveWell, a non-profit charity evaluator (decides whom to give money) Harvard ’03. “An EEV approach…of life experience.”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">An EEV [explicit] [expected-value] approach … of life experience.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rehabilitation is distinct from traditional criminal sanctions. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lipsey</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cullen[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ’07:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rehabilitation treatment is … of antisocial behavior (Walters 1990)].</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I contend that criminal justice policies associated with rehabilitation reduce crime.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">First is Social Disempowerment</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The paradigm of punishment ignores the state’s obligation to address the causes of crime and instead perpetutates the problems it seeks to solve. This punitive criminal justice project institutionalizes control and dependency. Imprisonment becomes a way of marginalizing outsiders and creating an underclass of recalcitrant individuals and their communities. **Wacquant**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Loic Wacquant—2008. [Professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Institute for Legal Research, Boalt Law School, University of California at Berkeley]. The Place of the Prison in the New Government of Poverty in: After the war on crime: race, democracy, and a new reconstruction by [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Mary+Louise+Frampton%22|Mary Louise Frampton]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Ian+Haney-L%C3%B3pez%22|Ian Haney-López]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Jonathan+Simon%22|Jonathan Simon]]. NYU Press. JS.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">More than the … civalized wage work.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must break out of the mindset of incarceration. This myopic perspective ignores the social dimensions of crime and the widespread impact of criminal justice policy. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wacquant 2</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Loic Wacquant—2008. [Professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Institute for Legal Research, Boalt Law School, University of California at Berkeley]. The Place of the Prison in the New Government of Poverty in: After the war on crime: race, democracy, and a new reconstruction by [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Mary+Louise+Frampton%22|Mary Louise Frampton]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Ian+Haney-L%C3%B3pez%22|Ian Haney-López]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Jonathan+Simon%22|Jonathan Simon]]. NYU Press. JS.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grasping the changing … of convict labor.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The impact is cyclical poverty, crime, oppression, and exclusion. **Ferrell**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Mark W. Lipsey and Francis T. Cullen—5 July 2007. [Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University and Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati]. The Effectiveness of Correctional Rehabilitation: A Review of Systematic Reviews. Annual Review of Law and Social Science. Vol, 3, pp. 297–320. JS.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As the interactionist/labeling … claims, falsely, to solve.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second is Recidivism</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Rehabilitation in the form of CBT and MST are extremely effective at reducing recidivism rates. Multiple meta-analyses as well as reviews of meta-analyses have soundly concluded that it works. **Cullen** and **Gendreau** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #141413; font-size: 6pt;">Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice. JS.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Even if interventions … the interventions “doubles” (p. 98).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Prefer my meta-analytic evidence to isolated studies or individual examples of failure. **Cullen** and **Gendreau2**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #141413; font-size: 6pt;">Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice. JS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">There are, however... interventions they initiate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Taken as a whole, the evidence indicates that rehabilitative therapy lowers recidivism rates by approximately twenty percent. According to the**Bureau of Justice Statistics**, a twenty percent decrease in recidivism nationally translates to nearly 100,000 fewer repeat offenders being sent to prison every single year.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Since the average repeat offender is charged with more than four crimes at a time, that means nearly 4 million fewer crimes a decade. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The direct harm of recidivism has three impacts. **Wilson**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #231f20; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The effects of recidivism … cannot be understood.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Alternate Util Framework</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Phenomenological introspection reveals that pleasure is intrinsically good and pain is intrinsically bad for humans. Sinhababu</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Neil Sinhababu, //The Epistemic Argument For Hedonism//, National University of Singapore, accessible through PhilPapers</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">“We can form a variety of … for this kind of felt goodness.”</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, pleasure and pain must be aggregated because there is no separate self to privilege in evaluation. Instead, identity is fluid. Parfit</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Later selves and moral principles <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://philpapers.org/s/Derek%20A.%20Parfit|Derek A. Parfit]]</span>In A. Montefiore (ed.), //Philosophy and Personal Relations//. Routledge and Kegan Paul (1973) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The identity of people over time … be a further, independent, fact. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Parfit 2 explains that we must evaluate the totality of human experience instead of focusing on the individual as an acting moral agent</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Later selves and moral principles <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://philpapers.org/s/Derek%20A.%20Parfit|Derek A. Parfit]]</span>In A. Montefiore (ed.), //Philosophy and Personal Relations//. Routledge and Kegan Paul (1973)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">It may help to return to … the same or different lives. </span>

==Negative== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">OUR OWN IMAGE NC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality.**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">To evaluate ethical judgements we must //first// untangle our ontological commitments about who is and is not included in the “us” and the “them.” This requires analyzing how policies frame our capacity to apprehend lives. **Butler 1** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We ask such … who will not. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **preventing exclusion from our frames of reference** and preventing control of life by power because</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">First,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Debate and academica do not take seriously the voices of victims or the complexity of social struggles. **Prosise, et al 1** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">While this emphasis … of logical types.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed allowing us to commit the worst possible violence to them. **Butler 2**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” //Studies in Gender & Sexuality// 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Lives are supported … qualifies for recognition.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Rehabilitation puts peoples lives directly in the government’s hands. It attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. It directly destroys the individual, forcing them to be “cured” in order to best serve society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">If this statement by the government.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Chuck Hagel NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Human subjectivity cannot be conceptualized outside of our basic connections to others and the social conditions that enable autonomy. Human identity is dependent on recognition by the other. **Honneth**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Axel Honneth [University of Frankfurt], “Integrity and Disrespect: Principles of a Conception of Morality Based on the Theory of Recognition,” //Political Theory//, Vol. 20, No. 2 (May, 1992), pp. 187-201. Sage Publications, inc. http://www.jstor.org/stable/192001</span>

<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">According to this… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">person to collapse.</span>__**</span>





Humans live in societies and thus need acknowledgement about our worth within our society. **Farnham 1**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

**__We are engaged…__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">acknowledged by others.</span>





<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Our ability to pursue our own ends creates a unique identity and situates the individual within social context. **Farnham 2**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Failures to acknowledge… as an equal</span>**__.__**

**hus,** the standard is **maintaining social recognition.**

When an individual commits a crime against another, he or she creates an asymmetrical relationship between him or herself and the victim, thereby devaluing the victim’s place in society. **Farnham 3**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

**__Wrongful action__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">has realization and acknowledgement.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">A proportional response from an impartial moral authority is necessary to restore the victim’s position as a valued contributing member of society. **Farnham 4**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Where no public… </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">has been established.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation creates a barriers for the public to criticize injustices that are happening within the criminal justice system that typically exist in a retributive system because of the shroud of rehabilitation **Lewis ’87**</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">-</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment” AS.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The distinction will… What is your trouble? “ </span>



This allows the government to take away control of the offender’s standing in society from the offender by subjecting their lives and modes of thought to unassailable outside forces,



Retributivism takes the offender’s search for his or her place in society into account by acknowledging the role of his or her actions in that search. **Farnham 5**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Now</span> **__suppose__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">our … </span>**__and objectionable way.__**









===**__Libertarian NC__**=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Humans must be free from the interference of others in the determination of their life choices. **Boaz** </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">DavidBoaz [Executive vice president, the Cato institute] //Libertarianism: A Primer.// Simon & Schuster, 1997, New York</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Pg 61-62</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Any theory of … rights are self-evident.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">the wrongness of moral atrocities can only be explained through the concept of self-ownership. **Feser**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">EdwardFeser[Visiting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, LMU] //Self Ownership, Abortion, and The Rights of Children: Toward a More Conservative Libertarianism//, Journal of Libertarian Studies, Vol 18, No 3, Summer 2004, 91-114</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The thesis of… </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">for any reason</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">the standard is **consistency with self-ownership.** Government action cannot force an individual to sacrifice his or her own projects and goals for the good of others in society.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">If this statement… by the government.</span>




===<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Truth NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rationality can never justify all of our beliefs. Requiring us to do so is an impossible demand that short-circuits ethical decision-making. **Keller** explains why such strong rationalism fails for //two// reasons.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. 2008. BG.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything… have to bow to.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">explains how what we think of as “truth” is actually determined by power structures that erect a regime of “truth” to legitimate the existence of such structures. It is the structures, which we must overturn in order to make ethical decisions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Michel Foucault. Power And Knowledge. 1980. BG.</span>



<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">It seems to… importance of Nietzsche.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault takes out all other warrants for what states ought to do because such warrants //ultimately// rely on regimes of truth to validate their assumptions. </span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">If this statement i… by the government.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Retribution acknowledges their choices while expressing moral condemnation. **Robson**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">Robson, Regina A. [Assistant Professor of Business, St. Joseph’s University] //Crime and Punishment: Rehabilitating Retribution as a Justification for Organizational Criminal Liability//. 47 Am. Bus. L.J. 109, Spring 2010. MO.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">A second predicate… to specific conduct.</span>[[home#co_footnote_F118352049668_2|118]]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rationality can never justify all of our beliefs. Requiring us to do so is an impossible demand that short-circuits ethical decision-making. **Keller** explains why such strong rationalism fails for //two// reasons.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. 2008. BG.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything… have to bow to.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">explains how what we think of as “truth” is actually determined by power structures that erect a regime of “truth” to legitimate the existence of such structures. It is the structures, which we must overturn in order to make ethical decisions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Michel Foucault. Power And Knowledge. 1980. BG.</span>



<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">It seems to… importance of Nietzsche.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault takes out all other warrants for what states ought to do because such warrants //ultimately// rely on regimes of truth to validate their assumptions. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Moreover</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, we can //never// understand the nature of morality unless we //first// know who we have obligations //to//. This means that interrogating power structures //must// come first because it is the power structures that frame whose lives count. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Butler</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> explains: </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__We ask__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">such… </span>**__those who will not__**.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, it is impossible to determine //who// we have obligations to without interrogating the norms created by power structures. There is no other way; epistemology demands that we look first at power. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Butler 2[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> continues:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 3-4</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__The__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">epistemological</span> **__capacity… facilitate that recognition__**.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Debate and academica do not take seriously the voices of victims or the complexity of social struggles. **Prosise, et al 1**:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">While this emphasis… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">of logical types.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This means that A) philosophical frameworks fail if they fail to take into account these relationsal historical and contextual aspects **and** B) the most important thing for debate to accomplish is to teach debaters 1 how best to open up that space for victims to speak since they are excluded from academia and 2 to understand the ways in which power constructs our moral theories</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Second,</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The study of social power in argumentation and justification is key to the benefits gained from debate. **Prosise 2**:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Argument is </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">most</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> public decision making.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">So we must focus on how our arguments are justifying power structure and how either side can mitigate such existing structures, because argument itself is a form of social power. </span>

I contend that rehabilitation hides the tyrannical system of power that controls truth





**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">First</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, rehabilitation creates a barriers for the public to criticize injustices that are happening within the criminal justice system that typically exist in a retributive system because of the shroud of rehabilitation **Lewis ’87**</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">-</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment” AS.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The distinction will… is your trouble? “</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Second, rehabilitation disguises any possible malicious action as a cure for criminals without drawing any criticism meaning there is no limit to government action **Lewis ’87**</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">-</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment” AS.</span>





<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The practical problem… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">grounds of justice.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Therefore, this leaves the criminal justice system at the total whim of a tyrannical form of power as unique features in a rehabilitative criminal justice system allow it to justify anything to the public. </span>




----
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]] Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 3-4</span>


=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]