[[toc]]
=1AC= 
==**1AC State**== 
===Advantage=== 

**Contention one the Advantage –**
**Our policies on disasters protect New Orleans but leave smaller communities vulnerable**
**Associated Press 8/31/12** Isaac renews old debate about Louisiana levees By CAIN BURDEAU | Associated Press http://news.yahoo.com/isaac-renews-old-debate-louisiana-levees-205959649.html
When Hurricane Isaac whirled into the Gulf Coast … 1930s, and scientists warn that more will follow.

**Sandy proves – populations were ignored**
**Associated Press 11/2** Isolated NYC borough says help is slow after Sandy By EILEEN AJ CONNELLY and MEGHAN BARR | Associated Press – 3 hrs ago Email http://news.yahoo.com/isolated-nyc-borough-says-help-slow-sandy-064220250.html
The youngsters' bodies were recovered … a response by government disaster relief agencies.

**The scope is not limited to New Orleans – many lack the resources to evacuate**
**Tierney et al. 06** [Kathleen Tierney is a professor in the Department of Sociology and the Institute of Behavioral Science at the University of Colorado and director of the University of Colorado Natural Hazards Center. She is also a codirector of the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism, a Department of Homeland Security academic center of excellence that is headquartered at the University of Maryland. Christine Bevc is a doctoral student in sociology at the University of Colorado and a graduate research assistant at the Natural Hazards Center. Her research interests include environmental sociology, geographic information science, the quantitative analysis of crisis response networks, and recent trends in emergency management policies and practices. Erica Kuligowski is a doctoral student in sociology at the University of Colorado and a graduate research assistant at the Natural Hazards Center. Her current research focuses on crisis-related collective behavior, evacuation modeling, and qualitative media analysis] Metaphors Matter: Disaster Myths, Media Frames, and Their Consequences in Hurricane Katrina By KATHLEEN TIERNEY, CHRISTINE BEVC, and ERICA KULIGOWSKI http://cstl-cla.semo.edu/wmiller/ps691/Tierney%20et%20al.pdf
Militarism and disasters. Hurricane … large cities affected by extreme events?

**They are vulnerable to a laundry list of disasters**
**Bloomer 05** (Meteorlogist, “Other U.S. Cities Prone to Natural Disasters”, [[http://www.erh.noaa.gov/car/Newsletter/htm_format_articles/headlines/naturaldisaster_prep_mb.htm)A|http://www.erh.noaa.gov/car/Newsletter/htm_format_articles/headlines/naturaldisaster_prep_mb.htm)]]
The crisis that hit New Orleans at … being aware is the first step to being prepared.

**This is representative of a larger trend – we focus only on the few that we claim important**
**Berger and Cochran 07** (Aimee, instructor of English at Texas Christian University, her studies include cultural studies, southern studies, and the rhetorics of popular culture and new media, and Kate, an assistant professor at Northern Kentucky University, teaches courses in American literature and English education, “COVERING (UP?) KATRINA: DISCURSIVE AMBIVALENCE IN COVERAGE OF HURRICANE KATRINA”, http://www2.widener.edu/~cea/361berger.htm)//AMV//
//Katrina provides “simultaneously a radical narrative … that the real Mississippi continues to be invisible.// 

//**This is the politics of invisibility – we refuse to realize that there are those that need help**//
//**Tiner 9** (Stan, “Eye of the hurricane: Is Mississippi Coast invisible?”, http://onlineathens.com/stories/110109/opi_511235719.shtml)//
//When the White House recently … has come true in only four years.//

//**This supports a system of power of domination – causes war and destruction**// 
//**LaBalme 02** (Fen, Activism.net, “Activism: Pease: NVCD: Discrimination,” 2002, http://www.activism.net/peace/nvcdh/discrimination.shtml, accessed July 2, 2009).//
//In this action, our struggle is not only … at home, in the ways we treat each other.//

//**It will culminate in extinction – we control the scale of violence**//
//**Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois 04** (Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn) (Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)//
//This large and at first sight “messy” … and reversed feelings of victimization).//

//**Federal key to coordination and responsibility**// 
//**Renne et al., 2008** – Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)//BZ
Much of the current evacuation literature … response and evacuation plans be multimodal.

===Plan=== 

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its voluntary evacuation transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.**

===Ethics=== 

**Contention Two is Ethics –**
**Lack of transportation hinders evacuation efforts and reproduces invisibility**
**Bullard and Wright 05** Robert D. Bullard directs the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. His most recent book is The Quest for Environmental Justice: Human Rights and the Politics of Pollution (Sierra Club Books, 2005). Beverly Wright directs the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice at Dillard University. She is a Hurricane Katrina survivor. For more information on environmental racism visit [[http://www.ejrc.cau.edu/|www.ejrc.cau.edu]]. http://www.ejrc.cau.edu/Exec%20Summary%20Legacy.html
Transportation is a major component in any … tend not to own cars and drivers licenses.

**Transportation is key – status quo neglects the other**
**Kellner 07** The Katrina Hurricane Spectacle and Crisis of the Bush Presidency Douglas Kellner University of California–Los Angeles http://cretscmhd.psych.ucla.edu/nola/volunteer/EmpiricalStudies/The%20Katrina%20hurricane%20spectacle%20and%20crisis%20of%20the%20bush%20presidency.pdf
Despite all the warnings, there appeared to … tough Texas behavior and demeanor (Benjamin, 2005a).1

**Welcoming the Other is the only way to prevent apocalypse**
**Fasching 93** Darrell, professor of religious studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia
When I began work on this … approach the coming of the third millennium.

**Our obligation is to make the state ethical – the state is inevitable and the alternative to state ethics is the destruction of the other**
**Simmons 99** William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6
Since ‘it is impossible to escape the … of what it wants to secure.

**Our primary responsibility is the cultivation of compassion towards Otherness – this is critical to avoiding oppression and injustice**
**Porter 06** Elisabeth Porter is a PhD, BA (Hons 1st class), Dip.T. Professor Porter has taught at the University of South Australia, Flinders University of South Australia, University of Ulster and Southern Cross University. As well as a lecturer, she has been a Research Director at INCORE (International Conflict Research) at the University of Ulster, Northern Ireland; and former Head of School of International Studies. Can Politics Practice Compassion?Author(s): Elisabeth PorterReviewed work(s):Source: Hypatia, Vol. 21, No. 4 (Autumn, 2006), pp. 97-123Published by: Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of Hypatia, Inc.Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/4640024 .Accessed: 25/08/2012 09:40
Also, I suggest (but cannot fully develop … is necessary in personal relationships and also in sociopolitical arenas.

**We should view morals before consequences – we can understand the virtue of an action but we can never understand the consequences**
**Lenman 00** Univeristy of Glasglow and the United Kingdom Arts and Humanities Research Board.Consequentialism and Cluelessness Author(s): James Lenman Reviewed work(s): Source: Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Autumn, 2000), pp. 342-370 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2672830 . Accessed: 24/07/2012 09:53
A typical morally significant action … a story would precisely not be consequentialist.

**A crisis focused ethic is wrong – attention to isolated instances of warfare ignores the daily horrors of militarist exceptionalism. This is the precondition for any war to happen**
**Cuomo 1996** – PhD, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Philosophy, University of Cincinnati (Chris, Hypatia Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Issue 3, pg 30)
In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin … to be the inevitability of war and militarism.

**Structural harms outweigh**
**Abu-Jamal 98** (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])
We live, equally immersed, and to … violence passes away with them.

**Even if our politics is impossible, it is still good. Our struggle is necessary to celebrating life. The alternative denies our potential to affirm life and leads to suffering.**
**May 05** (Todd May, prof @ Clemson. “To change the world, to celebrate life,” Philosophy & Social Criticism 2005 Vol 31 nos 5–6 pp. 517–531)
To change the world and to celebrate … be more than willing to take your world up for you.

**Aff spills over and reforms the state**
**Willson 01**- Professor of Department of Urban and Regional Planning @ California State Polytechnic University
Richard, “Assessing communicative rationality as a transportation planning paradigm,” Transportation, [[http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf]]
1. Role of the planner. Communicative rationality … explicit part of the planning activity.

**Integrating ethics into politics is key to prevent totalitarianism**
**Simmons 99** William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6
Levinas argues for a place for both … more just. Levinas calls for the liberal state.


==1AC Harvard Doubles== 
===**Advantage**=== 
**Status quo policies on disasters leave smaller communities vulnerable**
**Associated Press 8/31/12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Isaac renews old debate about Louisiana levees By CAIN BURDEAU | Associated Press http://news.yahoo.com/isaac-renews-old-debate-louisiana-levees-205959649.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When Hurricane Isaac whirled into … warn that more will follow.</span>

**Sandy proves – populations were ignored**
**Associated Press 11/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Isolated NYC borough says help is slow after Sandy By EILEEN AJ CONNELLY and MEGHAN BARR | Associated Press – 3 hrs ago Email http://news.yahoo.com/isolated-nyc-borough-says-help-slow-sandy-064220250.html</span>
The youngsters' bodies were recovered … by government disaster relief agencies.

**The scope is not limited – lots of cities are vulnerable**
**Bloomer 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Meteorlogist, “Other U.S. Cities Prone to Natural Disasters”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.erh.noaa.gov/car/Newsletter/htm_format_articles/headlines/naturaldisaster_prep_mb.htm)A|http://www.erh.noaa.gov/car/Newsletter/htm_format_articles/headlines/naturaldisaster_prep_mb.htm)]]</span>
The crisis that hit New Orleans … first step to being prepared.

**This is representative of a larger trend – we focus only on the few that we claim important**
**Berger and Cochran 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aimee, instructor of English at Texas Christian University, her studies include cultural studies, southern studies, and the rhetorics of popular culture and new media, and Kate, an assistant professor at Northern Kentucky University, teaches courses in American literature and English education, “COVERING (UP?) KATRINA: DISCURSIVE AMBIVALENCE IN COVERAGE OF HURRICANE KATRINA”, http://www2.widener.edu/~cea/361berger.htm)//AMV//</span>
//Katrina provides “simultaneously a radical … Mississippi continues to be invisible.//

//**This is the politics of invisibility – we refuse to realize that there are those that need help**//
//**Tiner 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stan, “Eye of the hurricane: Is Mississippi Coast invisible?”, http://onlineathens.com/stories/110109/opi_511235719.shtml)</span>//
//When the White House recently … true in only four years.//

//**Federal coordination would make evacuation effective**//
//**Renne et al., 2008** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)</span>//BZ
Much of the current evacuation … and evacuation plans be multimodal.

===Plan=== 
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its voluntary evacuation transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.**


===**Ethics**=== 

**The status quo is unacceptable. The arrival of Katrina left hundreds of prisoners behind to slowly drown as the flood waters got deeper. Those that survived had to listen to their friends drown slowly**
**Human Rights Watch 05** [“New Orleans: Prisoners Abandoned to Floodwaters,” http://www.hrw.org/news/2005/09/21/new-orleans-prisoners-abandoned-floodwaters]
As Hurricane Katrina began pounding …charged, much less been convicted.


**Transportation justice requires government action – anything else sustains the private model now which fails millions of citizens**
**Morse 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )//ALo</span>
The American transportation model unfairly …adequate interim care and treatment. 194

**Our obligation is to make the state ethical – the state is inevitable and the alternative to state ethics is the destruction of the other**
**Simmons 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6</span>
Since ‘it is impossible to …what it wants to secure.

**Our primary responsibility is the cultivation of compassion towards Otherness – this is critical to avoiding oppression and injustice**
**Porter 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elisabeth Porter is a PhD, BA (Hons 1st class), Dip.T. Professor Porter has taught at the University of South Australia, Flinders University of South Australia, University of Ulster and Southern Cross University. As well as a lecturer, she has been a Research Director at INCORE (International Conflict Research) at the University of Ulster, Northern Ireland; and former Head of School of International Studies. Can Politics Practice Compassion?Author(s): Elisabeth PorterReviewed work(s):Source: Hypatia, Vol. 21, No. 4 (Autumn, 2006), pp. 97-123Published by: Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of Hypatia, Inc.Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/4640024 .Accessed: 25/08/2012 09:40</span>
Also, I suggest (but cannot … and also in sociopolitical arenas.

**We should view morals before consequences – we can understand the virtue of an action but we can never understand the consequences**
**Lenman 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Univeristy of Glasglow and the United Kingdom Arts and Humanities Research Board.Consequentialism and Cluelessness Author(s): James Lenman Reviewed work(s): Source: Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Autumn, 2000), pp. 342-370 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2672830 . Accessed: 24/07/2012 09:53</span>
A typical morally significant action … would precisely not be consequentialist.

**Confronting militarism in everyday life solves for a focus on crisis-based politics that cause a suspension of morality**
**Cuomo 1996**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Philosophy, University of Cincinnati (Chris, Hypatia Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Issue 3, pg 30)</span>
In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," … inevitability of war and militarism.

**Integrating ethics into politics is key to prevent totalitarianism**
**Simmons 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6</span>
Levinas argues for a place … Levinas calls for the liberal state.

**Planning for disasters leads to a continuous critique of the system**
**Willson 01**- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Department of Urban and Regional Planning @ California State Polytechnic University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard, “Assessing communicative rationality as a transportation planning paradigm,” Transportation, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf]]</span>
Purpose of planning. The purpose … part of the planning activity.

**In this instance, we must have a common morality to prevent indifference to obvious suffering**
**Dimitrijevic 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nenad, associate professor at CEU Political Science Department, “Moral knowledge and mass crime : A critical reading of moral relativism,” Philosophy Social Criticism February 2010 vol. 36 no. 2</span>
When thinking about perpetrators, collaborators … The conclusion reads that authenticity exculpates.

==**1AC Scranton RR-Harvard**== 
**Same 1AC as GBX but added...**

**Structural violence outweighs low probability events.**
**Gilman, 83**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dr. Robert C. Gilman, Ph.D. President of Context Institute Founding Editor of IN CONTEXT, A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture One of the articles in __[[#|The Foundations]]__ Of Peace (IC#4) Autumn 1983, Page 8 [[http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:p_T2jwNn8g4J:www.context.org/ICLIB/IC04/Gilman1.htm+nuclear+war+%22structural+violence%22&hl=en]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE HUMAN </span>__TENDENCY toward, and preparations for, open warfare are certainly the most spectacular obstacles ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> easily look in the other direction and disclaim "response ability." In terms of the suffering it supports, it is by far our most serious flaw.</span>

**AND NEW PLAN --**
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in voluntary evacuation transportation infrastructure in the United States.**

==**1AC Umich-GBX**== 
**Same 1AC as St. Marks but...**

**Sandy proves – populations were ignored** //(Added as the second 1AC card in the advantage)//
**Associated Press 11/2** Isolated NYC borough says help is slow after Sandy By EILEEN AJ CONNELLY and MEGHAN BARR | Associated Press – 3 hrs ago Email http://news.yahoo.com/isolated-nyc-borough-says-help-slow-sandy-064220250.html
The youngsters' bodies were recovered from a marsh … by government disaster relief agencies.

**AND NEW PLAN --**
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in the United States.**
==1AC St. Marks== 
===**Advantage**=== 
**Contention one is the Advantage –**
**Our policies on disasters protect New Orleans but leave smaller communities vulnerable**
**__[[#|Associated Press]]__ 8/31/12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Isaac renews old debate about Louisiana levees By CAIN BURDEAU | Associated Press http://news.yahoo.com/isaac-renews-old-debate-louisiana-levees-205959649.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When Hurricane Isaac whirled into the Gulf Coast this week, ……, and scientists warn that more will follow.</span>

**The scope is not just limited to the Gulf Coast – all cities are vulnerable**
**Bloomer 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Meteorlogist, “Other U.S. Cities Prone to Natural Disasters”, [[http://www.erh.noaa.gov/car/Newsletter/htm_format_articles/headlines/naturaldisaster_prep_mb.htm)A|http://www.erh.noaa.gov/car/Newsletter/htm_format_articles/headlines/naturaldisaster_prep_mb.htm)]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The crisis that hit …..</span> __But being aware is the first step to being prepared.__

**This is representative of a larger trend – we focus only on the few that we claim important**
**Berger and Cochran 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aimee, instructor of English at Texas Christian University, her studies include cultural studies, southern studies, and the rhetorics of popular culture and new media, and Kate, an assistant professor at Northern Kentucky University, teaches __[[#|courses in]]__ American literature and English education, “COVERING (UP?) KATRINA: DISCURSIVE AMBIVALENCE IN COVERAGE OF HURRICANE KATRINA”, http://www2.widener.edu/~cea/361berger.htm)//AMV//</span>
//__Katrina provides__<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">….</span> __Mississippi continues to be invisible.__//

//**This is the politics of invisibility – we refuse to realize that there are those that need help**//
//**Tiner 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stan, “Eye of the hurricane: Is Mississippi Coast invisible?”, http://onlineathens.com/stories/110109/opi_511235719.shtml)</span>//
//__When the White House__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">……. If that is the case, then my previous concern that history books won't contain the accurate story of Katrina has come true in only four years.</span>//

//**This supports a system of power of domination – causes war and destruction**//
//**LaBalme 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Fen, </span>//Activism.net, //“Activism: Pease: NVCD: Discrimination,” 2002, http://www.activism.net/peace/nvcdh/discrimination.shtml, accessed July 2, 2009).//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this action, </span>__our struggle__ __…..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n. The term recognizes the historical importance of the feminist movement in insisting that nonviolence begins at home, in the ways we treat each other.</span>//

//**It will culminate in extinction – we control the scale of violence**//
//**Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn)(Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this anthology’s thesis. ….. gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization).</span>//

//**Federal key coordination and responsibility**//
//**Renne et al., 2008** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)</span>//BZ
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Much of the …. and evacuation plans be multimodal.</span>

===Plan=== 
**(New Plan Text - vs. Greenhill) Thus the plan: The Untied States federal government should substantially increase its evacuation transportation infrastructure in the United States.**

**(Old Plan Text) Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in the United States.**

===Ethics=== 
**Contention Two is Ethics –**
**Transportation justice demands federal action; leaving policies up to local populations CREATES disasters and cannot solve our obligation**
**Morse 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )//ALo</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__American transportation model unfairly tends to burden minorities …**including the right to return and to adequate interim care and treatment**. 194__

**Welcoming the Other is the only way to prevent apocalypse. Their flashpoint ethic claims don’t matter – without overhauling the system the status quo is futile**
**Fasching 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Darrell, professor of religious studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When I began work on this book in …</span>

**Our obligation is to make the state ethical – the state is inevitable and the alternative to state ethics is the destruction of the other**
**Simmons 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6</span>
__Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’, ….</span>__Each of these principles, left to itself, only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure.__

**Our primary responsibility is the cultivation of compassion towards Otherness – this is critical to avoiding oppression and endless injustice that plagues isolated societies. That is a precondition for war.**
**Porter 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elisabeth Porter is a PhD, BA (Hons 1st class), Dip.T. Professor Porter has taught at the University of South Australia, Flinders University of South Australia, University of Ulster and Southern Cross University. As well as a lecturer, she has been a Research Director at INCORE (International Conflict Research) at the University of Ulster, Northern Ireland; and former Head of School of International Studies. Can Politics Practice Compassion?Author(s): Elisabeth PorterReviewed work(s):Source: Hypatia, Vol. 21, No. 4 (Autumn, 2006), pp. 97-123Published by: Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of Hypatia, Inc.Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/4640024 .Accessed: 25/08/2012 09:40</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Also</span>__, I suggest__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (but cannot fully develop here) </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. However, the underlying motivation still is sensitivity toward those in distress and thus those who are suffering are helped as a side effect. To summarize, my first counter to critics is that compassion is necessary in personal relationships and also in sociopolitical arenas.</span>

**We should view morals before consequences – we can understand the virtue of an action but we can never understand the consequences**
**Lenman 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Univeristy of Glasglow and the United Kingdom Arts and Humanities Research Board.Consequentialism and Cluelessness Author(s): James Lenman Reviewed work(s): Source: Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Autumn, 2000), pp. 342-370 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2672830 . Accessed: 24/07/2012 09:53</span>
__A__ __typical morally significant ….__
**A crisis focused ethic is wrong – attention to isolated instances of warfare ignores the daily horrors of militarist exceptionalism. This is the precondition for any war to happen**
**Cuomo 1996**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Philosophy, University of Cincinnati (Chris, Hypatia Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Issue 3, pg 30)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," ….</span>__what appears to be the inevitability of war__ __and militarism.__

**Structural harms outweigh**
**Abu-Jamal 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span>
__We live__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, equally immersed…</span> **__violence passes away with them.__**

**Even if our politics is impossible, it is still good. Our struggle is necessary to celebrating life. The alternative denies our potential to affirm life and condemns others to unnecessary suffering.**
**May ‘5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Todd May, prof @ Clemson. “To change the world, to celebrate life,” Philosophy & Social Criticism 2005 Vol 31 nos 5–6 pp. 517–531)</span>
__To change the world and to …. **others who would be more than willing to take your world up for you.**__

**Integrating ethical obligations to the other into politics is the only way to prevent totalitarianism**
**Simmons 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6</span>
__Levinas argues for__ __a place for both ethics and politics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">….</span>__Politics is necessary but it must be continually checked by ethics. Levinas calls for a state that is as ethical as possible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, one which is perpetually becoming more just. </span>__Levinas calls for the liberal state__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Aff spills over**
**Willson 01**- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Department of Urban and Regional Planning @ California State Polytechnic University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard, “Assessing communicative rationality as a transportation planning paradigm,” Transportation, [[http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Purpose of planning. ……g </span><span class="Underline">process is an explicit part of the planning activity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Ignoring morals justifies Nazi Germany**
**Dimitrijevic 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nenad, associate professor at CEU Political Science Department, “Moral knowledge and mass crime : A critical reading of moral relativism,” Philosophy Social Criticism February 2010 vol. 36 no. 2</span>
__When thinking about perpetrators__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, collaborators or bystanders, </span>__we try to understand what made it possible__ __for them to commit or support crimes. W……__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The conclusion reads that authenticity exculpates.</span>



=2AC Note= 
See: [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Pace Academy (GA) - Paula Cheng & Brian Klarman aff Evacuation NewOrleans|Evacuation - New Orleans]]
=2AC Add-On= 
==2AC Add-On - Cap (Vs. Race)== 
**We break down cap**
**Tahmasebi 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victoria, assistant professor in women's studies/humanities at the University of Toronto Scarborough, “Does Levinas justify or transcend liberalism? Levinas on human Liberation”, Philosophy Social Criticism June 2010 vol. 36 no. 5</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Usually the answer to these objections is met by an argument that … the struggle against them is central to Levinas’ concept of one-for-the-other.</span>

**That’s the root cause**
**Young 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Red Critique, Winter/Spring, “Putting Materialism back into Race Theory”, [[http://www.redcritique.org/WinterSpring2006/puttingmaterialismbackintoracetheory.htm]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This essay advances a materialist theory of race. In my view, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">race …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> democratic multiculturalism, </span>**__ultimately, requires the transformation of capitalism__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
=2AC Case= 
==2AC Case - AT: Badiou Turn== 
Ethics are derived from how we respond to suffering and injustice – failure to judge responsibility in relation to human suffering creates worse forms of victimization and ignores the complexity of violence. Badiou’s displacement of human suffering leads to banal atrocities and makes suffering inevitable
Santilli 2003 (Paul C. Santilli, Professor of Philosophy at Siena College, “Radical Evil, Subjection, and Alain Badiou’s Ethic of the Truth Event” – World Congress of the International Society for Universal Dialogue,” http://www.isud.org/papers/pdfs/Santilli.pdf)
Forboth Badiouand Kant, then, the emphasis is on the subject as an agent of moral good and evil. The suffering … to evil in the world, wherever it comes from,God, man, the devil, free will, or animal instincts.
==2AC Case - AT: Other Must Overcome== 
**Helping others does not insist the other does not act**
**Ferreira 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bachelor of Arts (BA), Brown University Master of Arts (MA), Princeton University Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Princeton University; 2003: Carolyn M. Barbour Professor of Religious Studies (endowed chair) 1992- present: University of Virginia , Professor, Departments of Religious Studies and of Philosophy 1993-95: Assistant Dean of the Faculty, College of Arts & Sciences l985-1992: University of Virginia, Associate Professor, Departments of Religious Studies and of Philosophy 1980-l985: University of Virginia , Assistant Professor, Department of Religious Studies 1977-1980: Yale University , Assistant Professor, Department of Religious Studies 1976-1977: Yale University , Acting Instructor, Department of Religious Studies] "Total Altruism" in Levinas's "Ethics of the Welcome" Author(s): M. Jamie Ferreira Reviewed work(s): Source: The Journal of Religious Ethics, Vol. 29, No. 3 (Fall, 2001), pp. 443-470 Published by: on behalf of Journal of Religious Ethics, Inc Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/40015299 . Accessed: 18/07/2012 15:41</span>

__The fear that a Levinasian ethics__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is too passive </span>__… other's initiative implies a nonresponsible passivity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==2AC Case - AT: Util (Update)== 
**6. Extinction doesn’t outweigh – the quest for survival undermines other rights and values.**
**CALLAHAN 73**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Daniel, institute of Society and Ethics, The Tyranny of Survival, p. 91-3)</span>

__The value of survival could not be so readily abused ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> be the Pyrrhic victory to end all Pyrrhic victories. </span>
==2AC Case - AT: Western Bad== 
**No link and impact turn – they attempt to oppress**
**Fasching 95** 1995 (Darrell J. Fasching, “Response to Peter Haas,” The Ellul Forum, January)
Finally, let me say that I have little … ideologies that legitimate violence under the guise of cultural diversity.

=2AC CP= 
==2AC CP - Equity Impact Statements== 

**CP is impossible—there’s no definition of what counts as equitable**
**Transportation Research Board 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">("Equity of Evolving Transportation Finance Mechanisms” http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr303.pdf, October 2012)</span>
A transportation finance … in¶ more detail in Chapter 3.

**CP is impossible and won’t result in the plan—courts won’t enforce and haven’t set a clear precedent—means there’s no way to determine what meets Title VI**
**Johnson, ’11** [Olatunde C.A Johnson., Associate Professor of Law, Columbia Law School, January 2011, 111 Colum. L. Rev. 154, lexis nexis]
Enforcement of Title VI, however, … consider or correct racial impacts. n187

**Turn – bureaucratic discussions of process cause doubling and destroy ethics**
**Fasching 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, //The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima ,//Pp.241-243)</span>
The heart of the problem lies in … personal responsibility for their actions.

**Framework of exchange operates under the guise of neutrality while actively precluding cooperation – this continual misunderstanding will destroy the planet**

**Vaughan 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director – Foundation For Compassionate Society – Social Justice Organization, 98 [Genevieve, "Jacob Wrestles With The Angel", [[@http://www.gift-economy.com/articlesAndEssays/jacobWrestles.html|Http://Www.Gift-Economy.Com/Articlesandessays/Jacobwrestles.Html]]) </span>
There are today two major paradigms … we finally destroy life on earth.

**Plan key to breaking down disabilities and the CP fails**
**Martin 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Brian Martin is Professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, Australia.] Nonviolent action and people with disabilities Published in Civilian-Based Defense, Vol. 15, No. 3, 2000, pp. 4-16 Brian Martin and Wendy Varney http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/00cbd.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is often useful to distinguish … be considered a reasonable option.</span>
==2AC CP - Levees== 

**Levees fail – termites**
**LSU Ag Center 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Researchers Evaluating Grass For Levee Protection News Release Distributed 07/27/06 http://text.lsuagcenter.com/en/environment/conservation/wetlands/Researchers+Evaluating+Grass+For+Levee+Protection.htm</span>
One of the problems … contributing to levee breaches.

**Levees encourage bad city planning and kill wetlands**
**Frank 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Jeffrey, "The Impact of Hurricane Katrina on Gulf Coast Libraries and Their Disaster Planning" (2011). This Thesis is brought to you for free and open access by the Master's Theses and Graduate Research at SJSU ScholarWorks. It has been accepted for inclusion in Master's Theses by an authorized administrator of SJSU ScholarWorks.. http://scholarworks.sjsu.edu/etd_theses/3925 </span>

Further, while the levee system … coast has greatly diminished.



==2AC CP - States Update== 

CP assures segregation
Bracey 1 (Christopher A., Visiting Assistant Professor, Northwestern University School of Law, “Louis Brandeis and the Race Question,” Spring 2001, 52 Ala. L. Rev. 859)
One possible explanation relates to Brandeis' … it came to racial issues, but is not particularly persuasive in this instance. [*908]

==2AC CP - States Updates (Harvard)== 

**States don’t have the data – feds key**
**GAO 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States Government Accountability Office GAO Report to Congressional Committees TRANSPORTATIONDISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS Actions Needed to Clarify Responsibilities and Increase Preparedness for Evacuations </span>
__According to experts__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and officials, </span>__the … person in addition to his or her location__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">2</span>


==2AC CP - Weather Mod== 

**HAARP is a WMD; destroys the environment. Also – the aff is not inherent and it’s a space weapon.**
**Chossudovsky 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Weather Warfare: Beware the US military’s experiments with climatic warfare by Prof. Michel Chossudovsky, the author of the international bestseller America’s "War on Terrorism”. He is Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa and Director of the Center for Research on Globalization. Global Research, December 7, 2007. The Ecologist, December 2007. http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=7561)</span>
"HAARP is a weapon of mass destruction, … of Global Research articles on Weather Warfare

==2AC CP - Word PIC== 
**Reappropriating the meaning of oppressive words is the ultimate confrontation to oppressive language**
**Butler 04** - (Judith, “Undoing Gender,” Routledge)
In the same way that the terms of an exclusionary … for politics that cannot be fully anticipated, a politics of hope and anxiety.

**Censorship fails—destroys our ability to fight dominant interpretations of words**
**Schram, 95** - prof social theory and policy @ Bryn Mawr College, (Sanford F. Schram, professor of social theory and policy at Bryn Mawr College, 1995, words of welfare: The Poverty of Social Science and the Social Science of Poverty
Euphemisms also encourage self-… interpretations as possible.

**Permutation do the plan without the representations – ethics are a prior question and the focus on discourse destroys our obligation.**
**Jovanovic and Wood 4** Spoma and Roy, Communications/Rhetoric Professors at Denver University and U North Carolina, Philosophy and Rhetoric Vol 37 no 4, 2004

To consider these opening facts of … are indicative of a turn outward toward a communal life.

**Placing representations and discourse first trades off with concrete political change**
**Taft-Kaufman, 95** Jill Speech prof @ CMU, Southern Comm. Journal, Spring, v. 60, Iss. 3, “Other Ways”, p pq

The postmodern passwords of "polyvocality," "Otherness," … both a cultural and humane failure.
==2AC CP - XO== 
**Unilateral presidential action threatens democracy and leads to pointless wars – Congressional oversight is necessary**
**Ackerman,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">9/7/</span>**2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bruce, Sterling professor of law and political science at Yale University; “Mission Accomplished. Finally.” Foreign Poilcy.com, September 7, 2011;</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/09/07/mission_accomplished_finally]]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The long war provoked by the attacks of Sept. 11 is … Congress or the American people. Is that what we really want?</span>__

**It will be rolled back by the courts:**
**Cooper 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Phillip, Professor of Public Administration @ Portland State University, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action” pg..77]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the apparent deference by the judiciary to … consequences of admittedly legitimate decrees.</span>

**Single executive orders don’t spillover to broader presidential powers**

**Kreider 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Kyle L. Kreider, Assistant Professor of Political Sciences at the Political Science Department, Wilkes University June 2006 [http://www.bsos.umd.edu/gvpt/lpbr/subpages/reviews/warber0606.htm]//DoeS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A part of the strategic environment surrounding … to decide upon their constitutionality</span>

**LINKS TO POLITICS.**
**Risen 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Clay, Managing editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas, M.A. from the University of Chicago “The Power of the Pen: The Not-So-Secret Weapon of Congress-wary Presidents” The American Prospect, July 16, http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_power_of_the_pen]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most effective check on executive orders has proven … as an anti-environmental president.</span>

=2AC DA= 
==2AC DA - Bonds== 
**Econ declining and collapse inevitable** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">----aging population, declining educational attainment, rising income inequality, offshoring, climate change, new carbon taxes, and a high debt burden</span>
**Kahn 1/22** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- (Jeremy, an independent journalist who writes about foreign affairs, politics, business, the arts, travel and the environment. He is currently based in New Delhi, India QUOTING Northwestern professor Robert Gordon and George mason University economist, " Is U.S. economic growth now stunted forever?" http://www.leaderpost.com/business/economic+growth+stunted+forever/7847883/story.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Asia, slowing growth in China and India … and capital, tells a slightly more encouraging story. </span>

**Econ collapse doesn’t cause war**
**Bazzi and Blattman, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Samuel Bazzi (Department of Economics at University of California San Diego) and Christopher Blattman (assistant professor of political science and economics at Yale University) November 2011 “Economic Shocks and Conflict: The (Absence of?) Evidence from Commodity Prices” [[http://www.chrisblattman.com/documents/research/2011.EconomicShocksAndConflict.pdf?9d7bd4]]</span>)
VI. Discussion and conclusions A. Implications for … results than ambiguous ones.20

**Plan key to business confidence – supply chains and life insurance**
**Davenport 2/8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Coral Davenport is the energy and environment correspondent for National Journal. Prior to joining National Journal in 2010, Davenport covered energy and environment for Politico, and before that, for Congressional Quarterly. In 2010, she was a fellow with the Metcalf Institute for Marine and Environmental Reporting. From 2001 to 2004, Davenport worked in Athens, Greece, as a correspondent for numerous publications, including the Christian Science Monitor and USA Today, covering politics, economics, international relations and terrorism in southeastern Europe. She also covered the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, and was a contributing writer to the Fodor’s, Time Out, Eyewitness and Funseekers’ guidebook series. Davenport started her journalism career at the Daily Hampshire Gazette in Northampton, Massachusetts, after graduating from Smith College with a degree in English literature. ]The Scary Truth About How Much Climate Change is Costing You While policymakers fiddle, the threat of economic harm posed by rising sea levels, devastating storms, and drought is growing every day. This article appeared in print as The Cost Of Inaction By Coral Davenport Updated: February 8, 2013 | 2:10 p.m. February 7, 2013 | 4:36 p.m. </span>
If Washington isn’t paying much …—particularly around cities like Norfolk.
==2AC DA - Politics (Sandy Update)== 
Plan key to the election – reverse causal
Khan 10/29 (Naureen, The Atlantic, Staff writer for the National Journal, “Hurricane Sandy Blows a Wrench Into the Presidential Campaign,” October 29, 2012, http://m.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/10/hurricane-sandy-blows-a-wrench-into-the-presidential-campaign/264261/)
OBAMA'S TEST. Hurricane Sandy is a critical …possibly the private sector.¶

==2AC DA - Politics (Winners Win Update)== 
**Winners Win (GBX)**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FOURNIER 11 – 6 – </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">12 Three-time winner of the White House Correspondents' Association Merriman Smith award, Former Harvard Institute of Politics fellow, Former Chief Washington Bureau Editor of the AP [Ron Fournier, Obama wins victory, but mandate is a different story, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.govexec.com/management/2012/11/obama-wins-victory-mandate-different-story/59329/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
Barack Obama won a second term … lawmakers. People will appreciate the effort.”

**Plan creates PC – we control uniqueness – Obama will inevitably start fights and only choosing ones that WILL pass assure he has PC (Emory)**
**Politico 1/9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Why President Obama is picking fights with Congress By: Glenn Thrush and Reid J. Epstein January 9, 2013 04:37 AM EST </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Barack </span>Obama is looking for <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">you want </span>rather than making it harder to achieve.”

==2AC DA - Politics (Republican Threat Con K)== 

**Their attack on the right cause policy failure and turns the DA**
**International Journal of Baudrillard Studies 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Volume 3, Number 1 (January 2006) From the Web: Baudrillard and American Politics Specular People and Democratic Impotence: The Magic of the Yellow Emperor1 Alevtian Rea (Olympia, Washington, USA). http://www.ubishops.ca/baudrillardstudies/vol3_1/rea.htm</span>
Beyond his general statements of … mirror they themselves were brandishing
=2AC K= 

==2AC K - Framework Long== 
**4th – cost benefit analysis**
**Andrews 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(peter, consulting faculty member at the ibm executive business institute in palisades, new york, executive technology report, august, www-935.ibm.com/services/us/bcs/pdf/g510-6313-etr-unlearn-to-innovate.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">High stakes </span>__innovation requires__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> abandoning …</span> __and find the vulnerabilities of a new idea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or approach).</span>

**6th – policy debate solves spectator phenomenon and increases education.**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher C. </span>**Joyner**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Spring 19</span>**99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Professor of International Law in the Government Department at Georgetown University. 5 ILSA J Int'l & Comp L 377, Lexis.</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Use of the debate can be an effective …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, withdrawing from the United Nations, or assassinating Sad</span>

**AND must be competitive – omission is NOT exclusion**
**Rorty 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rorty, Professor of Comparative Literature @ Stanford, `02 (Richard, Peace Review, vol. 14, no. 2, p. 152-153)</span>
__I have no quarrel with__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cornell's and </span>__…____, and should be told____,____in many other ways__

==2AC K - Prior Question== 
**Placing anything before the other is Nazism**
**Druker 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Associate Professor of Italian and Coordinator of the Italian section at Illinois State University where he also teaches Holocaust Literature and Film. He received a B.A. in English from Williams College and a Ph.D. in Italian from the University of California, Berkeley.] Ethics and Ontology in Primo Levi's "Survivial in Auschwitz": A Levinasian Reading Author(s): Jonathan Druker Reviewed work(s): Source: Italica, Vol. 83, No. 3/4 (Fall - Winter, 2006), pp. 529-542 Published by: American Association of Teachers of Italian Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/27669104 . Accessed: 18/07/2012 19:35 </span>

For philosopher Emmanuel Levinas, the logic … role the Nazis cast for themselves.

==2AC K - Boggs Long== 
**Cede the political**
**Boggs 00** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 2K CAROL, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1) Herm</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it is a very deceptive and misleading minimalism. While Oakeshott …</span> **__pragmatic, muddling-through modus operandi.__**

**That outweighs and turns the kritik**
**Boggs, 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreAT- Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6, [[http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fulltext.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century … universal, collective interests that had vanished from civil society. 75</span>

**--OR--**

**Turns race and cap bad args**
**Giroux, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Henry, chair of cultural studies at McMaster University, Dirty Democracy and State Terrorism: The Politics of the New Authoritarianism in the United States, Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East 26.2 (2006) 163-177, http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.library.emory.edu/journals/comparative_studies_of_south_asia_africa_and_the_middle_east/v026/26.2giroux.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We are indeed living in dark times.</span><span class="underline">As the critical …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">as 2006 has unfolded, "This country must go on the offense and stay on the offense."47</span>


==2AC K - Civil Society== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Civil society is key to the anti-nuclear movement</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Falk 97</span>**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Albert G. Milbank Professor of Int’l Law and Practice at Princeton, [Richard, “The Nuclear Weapons Advisory Opinion and the New Jurisprudence of Global Civil Society,” 7 Transnat'l L. & Contemp. Probs. 333, l/n]</span>
__A vivid illustration of this new … will not subject the peoples of the world to unacceptable risks.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> n27</span>

==2AC K - Disaster Reps== 
**Disasters are real and we should prepare**
**Flynn, 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, senior fellow for national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, and Consulting Professor, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, The Edge of Disaster: Rebuilding a Resilient Nation, p. 9-10)</span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">Thinking about and preparing for </span>____…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and to respond effectively when things go wrong.</span>

**Katrina reps breakdown the social construct**
**Harris 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Law, UCLA School of Law; Faculty Director, Critical Race Studies Program. B.A., Wellesley College; J.D., Northwestern University. (Cheryl I., “Whitewashing Race: Scapegoating Culture, Whitewashing Race: The Myth of a Color-Blind Society by Michael K. Brown et al” Book Reviewed published: Berkeley: University of California Press, 2003., Review published: //California Law Review.// Vol. 94, No. 3, (May, 2006). JSTOR) //ALo</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Facts, of course, often powerfully disrupt the comfortable stories …</span> __knew it was happening. Why didn't you?"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">72</span>

==2AC K - Edelman== 

**Edelman oversimplifies—this is a reason to reject their cards.**
**Balasopoulos 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Antonis, Assistant Professor in English Studies at the University of Cyprus, Journal of American Studies, “Evolution and ‘the Sex Problem’: American Narratives during the Eclipse of Darwinism”, proquest)</span>

__Edelman__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’s book takes obvious pleasure in …</span> __climate of American politics in the present.__

**Alternative doesn’t solve patriarchy – Edelman’s use of queer theory can’t be universalized.**
**Snediker 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Visiting Assistant Professor of American Literature at Mount Holyoke College, Postmoden Culture, Vol 16, “Queer Optimism”, May, http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/postmodern_culture/v016/16.3snediker.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Edelman's might be one way of refusing the logic of …</span> __refracted unavailing sides, but a claustrophobia unto itself__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Edelman’s alternative perpetuates essentialism and does not address material oppression.**
**Edwards 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tim, Senior Lecturer of Sociology at the University of Leicester, Routledge, “Cultures of Masculinity” p85, http://books.google.com/books?id=jiDisMipzEsC&source=gbs_navlinks_s)</span>

__Gay liberation is problematic not …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the overtly sexualised and hypermasculine clone.</span>

==2AC K - Ethics Reps Good== 
**Perm do both – our ethic is correct**
**Burns 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lawrence, Professor in History of Medicine at the King’s University College at the University of Western Ontario, “Identifying concrete ethical demands in the face of the abstract other: Emmanuel Levinas’ pragmatic ethics”, Philosophy Social Criticism March 2008 vol. 34 no. 3</span>

__By teaching that the expressiveness of the … and take responsibility for his or her enjoyment.__

==2AC K - Fasching 12== 

**Holy societies break down ethnocentric thought while sacred societies reinforce them**
**Fasching** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">7/4/</span>**12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Sacred, the Secular and the Holy: The Significance of Jacques Ellul's Post-Christian Theology for Global Ethics copyright 2012 By Darrell J. Fasching, Professor Emeritus, University of South Florida, Tampa [[http://www.wheaton.edu/Academics/Departments/Theology/Conferences-and-Lectures/Ellul/~/media/Files/Academics/Departments/BTS/Ellul%20papers/Darrell%20Fasching.pdf]]</span>
If we follow Ellul's sociological analysis, … but about changing the world.

==2AC K - Giroux 06== 

**The action and pedagogy of the plan is key**
**Giroux, 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Katrina and the Politics of Disposability”, http://www.inthesetimes.com/article/2822/)</span>
In the current blitz of media remembrance, … indifferent in the face of death.

==2AC K - Movements Fail== 
**3rd movement fails**
**Spector 10 – Associate Professor of Sociology at Purdue University Calumet**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alan J Spector, “Neoliberal Globalization and Capitalist Crises in the Age of Imperialism” in “Globalization in the 21st Century: Labor, Capital, and the State on a World Scale”, pg 54, IWren)</span>
__Some who consider themselves__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the </span>__… replace a declining U.S. empire__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and breathe new life into the world capitalist system.</span>

**4th is no lasting change – even if they create change it is only temporary**
**Milbrath, 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Sociology at SUNY Buffalo</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lester W., </span>__Building Sustainable Societies__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ed. Pirages, p. 289)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In some respects personal change cannot be … </span>__to change is not likely to be effective.__

**5th is can’t fix transportation**
**Zola, 89** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Irving Kenneth, Activist and Writer in the fields of medical sociology and disability rights, founding member of the Society of Disability Studies, and the first editor of Disability Studies Quarterly, “Toward the Necessary Universalizing of a Disability Policy,” Milbank Quarterly Vol. 67, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/3350151]])</span>
__The nature of mass transport demands a public …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> need to get to work and go shopping, just like we do."</span>
==2AC K - Ontology== 

Our infusion of Levinasian ethics into politics is the only way to solve political concerns – focus on ontology cannot make material change or alter existing systems – this evidence is comparative
Kioupkiolis 11 Alexandros, Lecturer in Political Organization at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, “Keeping it open: Ontology, ethics, knowledge and radical democracy,” Philosophy & Social Criticism vol. 37 no. 6
As he understands it, the ‘political’ implies … together in collective aggregations that fight global inequities.

==2AC K - Rodriguez/Whiteness== 
**Flows aff**
**Rodriguez 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- PhD in ethnic studies from UC Berkeley, prof at UC Riverside Suspended Apocalypse White Supremacy, Genocide, and the Filipino Condition 2009 • Author: Dylan Rodríguez</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Clyde Woods, Cheryl Harris, and others have more adequately elaborated, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span> what is “peace<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” really, </span>in the time of Katrina (et al.)?

**Focus on white supremacy alone reproduces the most dangerous forms of racism and is doomed to fail**
**Hartigan 5**- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">John, professor of anthropology at the University of Texas (Culture against Race: Reworking the Basis for Racial Analaysis, South Atlantic Quarterly 104.3, Online)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One might be tempted to assume that Gilroy’s … to do away with race, but seemingly not with culture.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 14pt;">2AC K - Rodriguez (Updates)</span>== 

**New/Better Rodriguez Card**

**Rodriguez 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in ethnic studies from UC Berkeley, prof at UC Riverside WHAT LIES BENEATH Katrina, Race, and the State of the Nation EDITED BY THE SOUTH END PRESS COLLECTIVE South end press Cambridge, Massachusetts – Dylan Rodríguez </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.masteramericanstudies.unito.it/courses/dawson_course/rodriguez,%20katrina.pdf]]</span>

As others in this collection more … is what most disorients my own sensibilities.



==2AC K - Schmitt== 

**We don’t link but their alternative makes war inevitable**
**Brewer 07** Brewer 2007 (Joe Brewer, M.S. in Atmospheric Science from the University of Illinois, “
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Georgia,'Times New Roman',serif; text-align: left;">Shifting the Climate of Security,”</span>
http://archive.truthout.org/article/joe-brewer-shifting-climate-security)
A central dichotomy during the cold war … control over their circumstances.

**Schmitt causes Nazism**
**Wolin 06**, Richard Wolin, taught at Reed College, the University of Paris-X, and Distinguished Professor of History, Comparative Literature, and Political Science at the Graduate Center at CUNY, The Frankfurt School Revisited, 2006, p. 246-247//MC
During the 1990s a new fascination developed … the salvation of humanity itself was at stake.

**Their understanding of difference and classification is the creation of a sacred society. We reject this view to embrace the holy community**
**Ferreri 04** Sports and the American Sacred: What are the Limits of Civil Religion? by Frank Ferreri A thesis submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Masters of Arts Department of Religious Studies College of Arts and Sciences University of South Florida Co-Major Professor: Dell deChant, M.A. Co-Major Professor: Danny L. Jorgensen, Ph.D. Darrell J. Fasching, Ph.D. Date of Approval: November 12, 2004 Keywords: civil religion, sports, popular culture, secularization, contemporary America © Copyright 2004, Frank Ferreri http://scholarcommons.usf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2031&context=etd
In his analysis of consumer … reveals the function and identity of the culture.

**Causes enemy creation and endless war**
**Specter 4-**Assitant Professor of History @ Central Connecticut State University, PhD and MA in History @ Duke [Matthew, Ph.D candidate in modern European history, 4/26, http://www.politicaltheory.info/essays/specter.htm, DKP]
The Bush administration was born under a Schmittian … with us or against us" speeches.

==2AC K - Speaking For Others/Gift== 

**Speaking for others is inevitable and key to solve oppression**
**Marino 5** Macalester Department of Philosophy (Lauren, “Speaking for Others,” Macalester Journal of Philosophy: Vol. 14: Iss. 1, Article 4, dml)
If the self is located within language games … for is cooption forcing the margins into the mainstream.

**Gift giving is good**
**Mifsud 07**, Mari Lee.[Department of Rhetoric and Communication Studies University of Richmond] Philosophy and Rhetoric, Volume 40, Number 1, 2007, pp. 89-107 (Article) On Rhetoric as Gift/Giving Pg. 93-4 [Project Muse]
The intimacy of the gift economy inextricably links … of cultural intimacy and cultural memory.

**The alt is bad**
**O’Neill 01** John O’Neill, professor of sociology at York University, 2001, Angelaki: Journal of the Theoretical Humanities 6.2, “The Time(s) of the Gift,” pg. 1
Today, we seek to give less to the … for the secular practices of charity (O'Neill, 1994).


==2AC K - Statism Update== 
**Local fails in the context of transportation**
**Zola, 89** (Irving Kenneth, Activist and Writer in the fields of medical sociology and disability rights, founding member of the Society of Disability Studies, and the first editor of Disability Studies Quarterly, “Toward the Necessary Universalizing of a Disability Policy,” Milbank Quarterly Vol. 67, http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/3350151)
The nature of mass transport demands a … need to get to work and go shopping, just like we do."
==2AC K - Truth Bad== 

**Truth Exists – anything else leads to Nazism – partial truth is not a reason to reject it**
**Quodlibet Journal 05**, Quodlibet Journal is a peer-reviewed academic journal of philosophy. Philosophical Objections to the Knowability of Truth: Answering Postmodernism Author: Andrew Uduigwomen Quodlibet Journal: Volume 7 Number 2, April - June 2005 ISSN: 1526-6575
Postmodern philosophers opine that truth is community-… deceive us than to maintain that they can never be trusted.
==2AC K - Zizek== 
**The K is non-falsifiable**
**Robinson (PhD Political Theory, University of Nottingham) 05** (Theory and Event, Andrew, 8:1, The Political Theory of Constitutive Lack: A Critique).
The technical term operates in much the same … don't-know" being underdefined if one misrepresents it mythically.

**Zizeks theory leads to massacres and totalitarianism**
**Johnson 9** Alan Johnson is a professor in the Department of Social and Psychological Sciences at Edge Hill University in England. He is the founder and editor of Democratiya, and the editor of Global Politics After 9/11: The Democratiya Interviews, “The Reckless Mind of Slavoj Zizek” Dissent, Volume 56, Number 4, Fall 2009, pp. 122-127 (Review) (Project Muse) p. 123-124
As for Camus’s wonderful aphorism, “It is no sin to … Žižek, by contrast, knows of the millions dead, but he wants a do-over.

**Alt fails AND cedes the political**
**Robinson 10**(Andrew, Visiting Fellow at Wolfson College, Cambridge University. Symptoms of a New Politics: Networks, Minoritarianism and the Social Symptom in Žižek, Deleuze and Guattari Deleuze Studies. Volume 4, Page 212-214 DOI 10.3366/dls.2010.0004, ISSN 1750-2241, Available Online July 2010, html version at http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:YTLqYnQiLmoJ:www.euppublishing.com/doi/abs/10.3366/dls.2010.0004+Symptoms+of+a+New+Politics:+Networks,+Minoritarianism+and+the+Social+Symptom+in+%C5%BDi%C5%BEek,+Deleuze+and+Guattari&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us)
Hence, the concept is useful in making …: ‘If it works, why not try a dose of it?’ (Žižek and Salecl 1996: 32).

**Zizek is racist and the alt kills people**
**Johnson 9** Alan Johnson is a professor in the Department of Social and Psychological Sciences at Edge Hill University in England. He is the founder and editor of Democratiya, and the editor of Global Politics After 9/11: The Democratiya Interviews, “The Reckless Mind of Slavoj Zizek” Dissent, Volume 56, Number 4, Fall 2009, pp. 122-127 (Review) (Project Muse) p. 126
Adam Kirsch has pointed to the sheer … to be fully endorsed.” Could he be any clearer?

**Psychoanalysis can’t explain policies or war**
**Blight 86** (James, Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, Political Psychology, Vol. 7, No. 4, International Society of Political Psychology, JSTOR//HH)
Several recent attempts are surveyed in …, as it were, without influence, despite all their good intentions.

**The alternative leads to relativism**
**Norris 96** (Christopher, Prof. Phil. – U. Wales-Cardiff, “Reclaiming Truth: Contributions to a Critique of Cultural Relativism”, p. 5-9)
In support of this position he offers a new … beguiling self-images and rhetorics of the age.