[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Valley 1AC== 
===Plan=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Indian Country.**


===Adv 1) Native Culture=== 
**Transportation infrastructure on Indian reservations is suffering from a huge construction and maintenance backlog that will only increase in severity.**
**NCAI 10** (National Congress of American Indians, 10/15/10, NCAI, “SENATE COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS FIELD HEARING: “TO EXAMINE TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION IN INDIAN COUNTRY,” http://www.indian.senate.gov/public/_files/JeffersonKeeltestimony00.pdf )

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The officials at the Department...need in Indian Country.</span>


**Because of the Federal Government’s neglect American Indian traffic fatalities have steadily increased. Yet American traffic fatalities have steadily decreased during the same time.**
**Keel 11,** <span style="font-size: 90%;">Jefferson Keel, president of the National Congress of American Indians, 8-15-11, Senate Committee on Indian Affairs Hearing, “Oversight hearing on tribal transportation: Paving the way for Jobs, Infrastructure, and Safety in Native Communities,” www.indian.senate.gov/hearings/upload/Jefferson-Keel-FINAL-testimony.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">State governments spend....in the United States</span>


**Transportation infrastructure is critical to the sustainability of native life – education, health, and basic necessities**
**Boyles and Brinton et. al 6** <span style="font-size: 90%;">(Benjamin Boyles, Erin Brinton, Anne Dunning, Angela Mathias, and Mark Sorrell, Metapress & The Native American Transportation Issues Committee sponsored publication of this paper. “Native American Transit Current Practices, Needs, and Barriers”, 2006, trb.metapress.com/content/qu42054t10716818/fulltext.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Native Americans have a....their basic needs.</span>


**Everyday violence must be prioritized – it is the largest proximate cause of war, creates priming that psychologically structures the worst atrocities**
**Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois 04**(Nancy and Philippe, Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">This large and at...reversed feelings of victimization).</span>



**This destruction of Indian culture is part of modern racism – the federal government’s hands-off approach disregards the historical genocide of Indian peoples.**
**Adams and Goldbard 95,** Don Adams and Darlene Goldbard, writers and consultants in organizational and cultural development, 1995, Institute for Cultural Democracy, “Cultural Policy in US History,” http://www.wwcd.org/policy/US/UShistory.html#AMERCULT

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The decimation of indigenous....into the mainstream culture.</span>



**And, racism //must be// rejected in __every__ instance**
**Barndt 91** (Joseph Barndt, Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America, 1991, p. 155-56)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">To study racism...allow it to continue</span>



**Transportation policies are critical to issues of race in society**
**Bullard 4**<span style="font-size: 90%;"> (Robert D. Bullard, Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University. Previously Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, known as the 'father of environmental justice', 2004, "Chapter One: The anatomy of transportation racism" in Highway robbery : transportation racism & new routes to equity / edited by Robert D. Bullard, Glenn S. Johnson, Angel O. Torres. Cambridge, Mass. : South End Press, p. 19)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">America’s dirty secret,...live, work, and play.“</span>


**Only engaging with the state can create change**
**Themba-Nixon 2k** <span style="font-size: 80%;">Executive Director of The Praxis Project, a nonprofit organization helping communities use media and policy advocacy to advance their welfare- [makani, Changing the rules what public policy means for organizing Colorlines 3.2]</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">In essence, policies .....committed to making it so.</span>


===Adv 2) Moral Obligation of the Federal Government=== 

**Underfunding by the federal government is a violation of basic civil rights**
**USCCR ‘03**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">(United States Commission of Civil Rights, “A Quiet Crisis: Federal Funding and Unmet Needs in Indian Country,” [[http://www.usccr.gov/pubs/na0703/na0731.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The federal government’s....sustain life on reservations.</span>


**Federal obligation is distinct from federal dominion—the judicial doctrine cited in their evidence should be delinked from positive actions like the plan**
**Wood, 1994 (**Mary Christina, University of Oregon Assistant Law Professor, “Indian Land and the Promise of Native Sovereignty: The Trust Doctrine Revisited”, 1994 Utah L. Rev. 1471)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The Kagama and Worcester .... only Congress that authority. n148</span>


**The federal government has a moral obligation to ensure the well-being of Native Americans, funding fulfills this obligation**
**Berry et al 3** - <span style="font-size: 80%;">Professor of American Social Thought and Professor of History at the University of Pennsylvania (Mary, US Commission on Civil Rights, “A Quiet Crises: Federal Funding and Unmet Needs in Indian Country”, [[http://www.usccr.gov/pubs/na0703/na0731.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">*Mary Berry is the chairperson of the commission</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">A quiet crisis is ..... protection of the laws.</span>



===Adv 3) International Modeling=== 

**Federal policy towards American Indians is modeled worldwide**
**Morris 99** (Glenn T. Morris, (Native American, he formerly served as Co-Director and is now a member of the Leadership Council of the American Indian Movement of Colorado, associate professor of political science at the University of Colorado at Denver) 1999 http://www.cwis.org/fwdp/International/int.txt)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Although this chapter....parts of the planet.</span>


**US Frameworks consistently seen as a role model**
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Deer 97** (Ada, Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, 10 St. Thomas L. Rev. 17)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Indigenous peoples worldwide.... in its first Article.</span>


**Deforestation is a threat to indigenous communities**
**Gonzalez 1** (Carmen G., Asst Prof of Law @ Seattle U, Denver University Law Rev., v. 78, p.995-997)JFS

<span style="font-size: 80%;">While transnational corporations....and regulation of rainfall.</span>


**Loss of forests supercharges further warming**
**Howden 7** (Daniel, editor of the Independent, foreign specialists, http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/climate-change/deforestation-the-hidden-cause-of-global-warming-448734.html)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Most people think ...against climate change."</span>



**Warming will cause extinction - scientific consensus that it’s real and anthropogenic – we have a moral obligation to address it**
**Morgan 9** [Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]

<span style="font-size: 80%;">As horrifying as the..... chances of survival?</span>



**Even if warming is inevitable stabilizing the current CO2 level key to adaptation**
**C2ES 11** (Center for Climate and Energy Solutions - successor to the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, and recently named the world’s top environmental think tank, "Science FAQs," http://www.c2es.org/global-warming-basics/faq_s/glance_faq_science.cfm)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Current atmospheric concentrations.... can be stabilized.</span>



**New Research even convinces climate skeptics – research has disproven doubts**
**Wolchover 7/31** (Natalie, LiveScience.com, http://news.yahoo.com/former-global-warming-skeptic-makes-total-turnaround-113037588.html, )

<span style="font-size: 80%;">A prominent scientist... cause of global warming.</span>



**Major war is obsolete – multiple factors prevent global conflict**
Michael **Mandelbaum**, American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, February 25, **1999**, Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series, “Is Major War Obsolete?” http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/
----


<span style="font-size: 80%;">My argument says, ..... increasingly, like that.</span>





=Negative= 
**<span style="font-size: 120%;">SEE BLAKE SW FOR 1NC SHELLS </span>**

==Specific Neg Strategies== 
===Valley=== 
**Round 1- Port Drudging in Panam Canal.**
1NC -- States CP, Cap K, Elections DA (obama good)
2nr- states and elections

**Round 3 Port Security**
1NC - States CP, Cap K, Elections
2NR - States and Elections


**Round 6 vs Locks&Damns**
1NC - States, Cap, Elections