=Edgemont JN - Wiki= 

Hi I'm Kense.
__don't email me__, full text will be up and running as soon as possible after each tournament-day.

Aff questions? Email Tasha at tjhangiani@gmail.com (You can also email me for strat sheets - I keep track of those)
Neg questions? '__' stare at the wiki and hope that cites you want magically appear when you press F5.

(Honestly - if you want any neg argument posted that isn't already up on the wiki, email me (Tasha) and I'll bother Kense about it. Thanks!)


[[toc]]
=Aff Stuffs= 

==1aC - Wake Forest== 

Plan:

__<span style="font-size: 25.3333px;">The United States federal government should capitalize a bank to substantially increase transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>__

Observation 1 is the Economy

Economy is failing – four internal links into fixing it.

First is Stimulus -

Double dip is coming by 2013 absent stimulus.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rasmus 12</span> (Jack, Jack Rasmus Ph.D in Political Economy and currently teaches economics and politics at St. Mary’s College and Santa Clara University in California is the author of the just-released book, "Obama's Economy: Recovery for the Few," Thursday, 05 January 2012, Economic Predictions for 2012 to 2013,
http://truthout.org/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=5904:economic-predictions-for-2012-to-2013

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A striking fact of the past four years is that the world's 10,000 or so economistshave overwhelmingly failedto predict the three major economic developments</span> of this period, 2007-2011. First, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">only a handful predicted the financial crash of 2007-08</span> and subsequent deep global contraction that I have called an "Epic" recession, to distinguish it from normal recessions (and also from depressions). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Second, the 10,000 have failed to predict the current protracted economic stagnation that has occurred since 2008 as well</span>; instead, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nearly all mainstream economists in recent years forecast a sharp "V"-shaped sustained economic recovery since 2008-09 that has yet to take place. Third, at year end 2011, they once again failed to see the sharp and even deeper retrenchment of the US and global economies that is coming,</span> no later than 2013 - and possibly even earlier should the eurozone currency and banking system crash in 2012, which appears increasingly likely. In contrast to mainstream economists, the methodology applied to the US and global economy used by this writer to predict the US and global economies the past four years (as outlined in my book, "Epic Recession: Prelude to Global Depression") has relatively accurately forecast the course of economic events. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Based onthat same methodology, this writer has recently predicted a double-dip recession in the US no later than early 2013</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a major financial crisis in the eurozone and a slowing of the global economy once again</span>. This double dip in the US and global slowdown in 2012-13 is treated in more detail in this writer's forthcoming book available in 2012, Obama's Economy: Recovery for the Few." In the meantime, here are this writer's predictions for 2012-13 for the US, euro and global economy. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Predictions for 2012 to 2013</span> 1. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The US will experience a double-dip recession in early 2013</span>. Or, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in the event of another banking crisis in Europe, perhaps</span> - though less likely - <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">earlier in 2012</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Despite a continual hyping of economic reportsby the mediaand business press in recent months, there is no recovery underway for jobs, housing or state and local government finances</span>. Job growth has been stuck throughout 2011 at around 80,000 to 100,000 a month per the Labor Department's monthly data. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The broader measure of unemployment, the U-6 rate, has been consistently in the 16 percent range</span>, or about 25 million to 26 million for the past year. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">State and local governments continue to lay off workers</span> in the 20,000 range every month. Little effective stimulus will be forthcoming from the federal government in 2012, despite the election year, and further deficit cutting is even possible in 2012. The first quarter of 2012 will record a significant slowing of gross domestic product (GDP) growth once again. Should the eurozone debt crisis escalate once more in the second quarter of 2012, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the US economy will weaken further in the second quarter</span>. It may even slip into recession if the euro crisis is particularly severe. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">More likely, however, is the scenario of an emerging double-dip recession in early 2013, when deficit cutting by Congress and the administration intensifies</span>.

Infrastructure stimulus improves the economy and prevents recessions from getting worse.
<span class="Cite">Blodget 12</span> ( Henry Blodget is co-founder, CEO and Editor-In Chief of Business Insider a top-ranked Wall Street Internet analyst. Jun. 19, 2012, Yes, It's Time For A Massive Infrastructure Spending Program, ://www.businessinsider.com/infrastructure-spending-program-2012-6?op=1)//

//YES, GOVERNMENT SPENDING DOES WORK--SOME GOVERNMENT SPENDING. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The economy is basically composed of three big spending engines</span> —<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">consumers, corporations</span> (investment), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and governments</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">So when the first two weaken, as they have in recent years, the third can help offset this weakness</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Specifically, the government can increase its spending to offset the lost consumer and business spending</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">When governments spend money well</span>, moreover—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">such as on infrastructure projects that benefit all citizens</span>—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the impact of this spending lasts far beyond the years</span> in which the money is spent. Roads, bridges, schools, airports, national broadband networks, and other investments can improve the country for decades. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">When the government spends money badly, meanwhile--on bailouts and handouts and by perpetuating unsustainable promises of entitlement programs--the money is just wasted</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ever since the 2009 stimulus "failed to fix the economy,"</span> the consensus in the US has been that government stimulus doesn't work. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There's actually a lot of evidence to suggest that it did work</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or at least helped improve the situation</span> (check out these charts). But the theory that government spending "doesn't work" is pervasive. In support of this theory, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">everyone first points to Japan</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">where the government has been frantically "stimulating" the economy for two decades now</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Then they point to the Great Depression, with its massive public-works programs</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But other evidence suggests</span> that the impact of government stimulus, specifically <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">infrastructure stimulus</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is being badly misunderstood.</span> Richard Koo Think Japan's stimulus has failed? Look at what it would have done with government intervention (red line). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The work of economist Richard Koo, for example, suggests that Japan's stimulus has been vastly more successful than is commonly believed</span>. Far from not working, Koo argues, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Japan's government stimulus has kept Japan's economy alive for the past 20 years</span>. Without the stimulus, Koo says, Japan's economy would not have crawled along for the last two decades—it would have collapsed. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">When the same logic is applied to the US stimulus of 2009-2010, the conclusion is that the stimulus "failed to fix"theUSeconomy, but that it kept the recession from being much worse</span>. In addition to Japan, one of the most often-repeated examples cited by those who say stimulus doesn't work is the US experience in the Great Depression. To see that stimulus doesn't work, they say, all you need to do is look at the huge public-works programs of the 1930s, which failed to pull the US permanently out of the Depression. What finally got the US out of the Depression, these folks continue, was World War 2. World War 2: The biggest Keynesian stimulus ever. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But what was World War 2 if not a gigantic government stimulus</span>? That's exactly what World War 2 was. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It put the US government deeply in debt, vastly deeper in debt than we are today. But it got our production engine humming again. And it set the stage for decades of impressive growth, during which we eventually worked off the World War 2 debt</span>. So there's a lot of evidence to suggest that the current consensus that stimulus "doesn't work" is flat-out wrong. In fact, the evidence suggests, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">stimulus can keep the economy from collapsing</span> while the private sector heals itself. And this, in turn, suggests that ruling out future stimulus in the form of infrastructure investment as a way to help the economy is a major mistake, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">especially with US infrastructure in such lousy shape and so many US workers idled by the construction industry slowdown</span>. To learn more about how government stimulus helps economies get through depressions, flip through some of Richard Koo's excellent slides below. They focus on Japan, the Depression, and recent US and Europe experiences...//

//Public investments in infrastructure leads to an economic recovery - leads to private investment and economic growth//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stiglitz 12</span>(University Professor at Columbia University, and a Nobel laureate in Economics) (Joseph E. Stiglitz, “Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit”, The Economists’ Voice Journal, March 2012) TJ//

//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall between actual and potential unemployment is huge and that monetary policy has proven ineffective, at least in restoring the economy to anything near full employment. Under these circumstances, the traditional economists’ solution has been to advocate the use of fiscal policy—tax cuts and/or spending increases. There is an especially compelling case for increasing</span>public investment<span class="Underline">s</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> because they would </span>increase GDP and employment<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">today </span>as well as increase output in the future.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Given low interest rates, the enhanced growth in GDP would more than offset the increased cost of government spending, reducing national debt in the medium term. Moreover, the</span><span class="Underline">ratio of debt to GDP would decrease</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">and the ability of the U.S. economy to sustain debt (debt sustainability) would improve. This happy state of affairs is especially likely given the ample supply of high-return investment opportunities in infrastructure, technology, and education resulting from underinvestment in these areas over the past quarter century. Moreover, well-designed</span>public investments<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">would </span>raise the return on private investments,<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> “crowding in” this additional source of spending. Together, </span>increased public and private investment would raise output and employment in the short run, and increase growth and debt sustainability in the<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">medium and</span>long run<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Such spending would reduce (not increase) the ratio of debt to GDP. Thus, the objection that the U.S. should not engage in such fiscal policies because of the high ratio of debt to GDP is simply wrong; even those who suffer from deficit fetishism should support such measures. Critics of this standard Keynesian prescription raise two objections: (a) government is not likely to spend the money on high return investments, so that the promised gains will prove elusive and (b) the fiscal multipliers are small (perhaps negative), suggesting that the shortrun gains from fiscal policy are minimal at best. Both of these objections are easily dismissed in the current economic environment. First, the assertion that government is incapable of making high return investments is just wrong. </span>Studies of the average returns on government spending on investments in technology show extraordinarily high returns, with returns on investments in infrastructure and education returns well above the cost of borrowing.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Thus, from a national point of view, investments in these areas make sense, even if the government fails to make the investments with the absolute highest returns. Second, the many variants of the argument that the fiscal multiplier is small typically rest on the assumption that as government spending increases, some category of private expenditure will decline to offset this increase. 1 Certainly, when the economy is at full employment and capital is being fully utilized, GDP cannot increase. Hence, under the circumstances, the multiplier must be zero. But today’s economic conditions of significant and persistent resource underutilization have not been experienced since the Great Depression. As a result, it is simply meaningless to rely on empirical estimates of multipliers based on post-World War II data. Contractionary monetary policy is another reason why multipliers may be markedly larger now than they were in some earlier situations of excess capacity. In these cases, monetary authorities, excessively fearful of inflation, responded to deficit spending by raising interest rates and constraining credit availability, thus dampening private spending. But such an outcome is not inevitable; it is a result of policies, often guided by mistaken economic theories. In any case, such an outcome is irrelevant today. This is because the Federal Reserve is committed to an unprecedented policy of maintaining near-zero interest rates through at least the end of 2014, while at the same time encouraging government spending. With interest rates at record lows and the Federal Reserve committed to keeping them there, crowding out of private investment simply will not occur. On the contrary, as I have noted, </span>public investment<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">— for instance, </span>in better infrastructure—is more likely to increase the returns to private investment. Such public spending crowds in private investment, increasing the multiplier<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Sometimes economists claim that consumers, worried about future tax liabilities in the wake of government spending, would contract their spending. However, the applicability of this notion (referred to as Ricardian equivalence) is contradicted by the fact that when George W. Bush lowered taxes and massively increased the deficit, savings plummeted to zero. But even if one believed in the applicability of Ricardian equivalence in today’s economy, government spending on investments that increase future growth and improve the debt-toGDP ratio would induce rational to spend more today. Consumption would also be crowded in by such government expenditures, not crowded out. Indeed, if consumers had rational expectations, the multiplier would increase even more in a long-lived downturn like the current one. The reason isthatsome of the money that is saved this year will be spent next year, or the year after, or the year after that—periods in which the economy is still well-below capacity. </span>This increased spending will lead to higher employment and incomes in these later years<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. But if individuals are rational, the realization that their future incomes will be higher will lead them to spend more today. </span>Deficit spending today crowds in not just investment, but also consumption.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Thus, a careful look at the current situation suggests that </span>the impact of well-designed government programs will be to stimulate the economy more<span class="Underline">than is assumed to be the case in standard Keynesian models</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (which typically assume a short-lived downturn and yield a short run fiscal multiplier of around 1.5). Even in the current period, fiscal policy results in greater output increases because investment and consumption is crowded in, because: (a) the Federal Reserve is unlikely either to increase interest rates or reduce credit availability; (b) public investments are likely to increase the returns to private investments; and (c) rational consumers/ taxpayers may recognize that future tax liabilities will decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.</span>//


//Second is infrastructure –//

//Currently, transportation infrastructure is failing – we need to act now while borrowing costs are low, and has public support.//
//Edward <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Alden</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">7-14</span>-<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span> (CFR Senior Fellow and Renewing America Director, “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere”, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/ :)//

//The Renewing America initiative is publishing today the first of what will be an ongoing series, the Renewing America Progress Report and accompanying Infographic Scorecard. The series is intended to highlight – in both a visually compelling fashion and in a more detailed narrative – the challenges the United States faces in rebuilding the foundations of its economic strength, and some of the initiatives that show the greatest promise. Our first installment, “Road to Nowhere,” says it all in the title. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Transportation infrastructure is one of the pillars of a modern competitive economy</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It allows people to travel to and from work easily every day</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It permits goods to move quickly from U.S. factories to international markets</span>, or from coastal ports to American retail shops, boosting productivity. It lets us hop in the car, or on a train or plane to escape for the weekend or a longer holiday, improving our quality of life and making the United States a more attractive place to live. Americans understood this once upon a time, building the most impressive network of roads and airports in the world, as well as a solid freight rail system. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But for far too long we have been living on that inheritance</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Two data points from the Scorecard stand out</span>: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Since 1980, the number of highway miles traveled by American drivers has doubled, but the miles of road on which they’re driving have increased just 5 percent</span>. It’s no mystery, as the report notes, why traffic congestion takes more than $700 out of the pocket of the average commuter each year. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Two-thirds of Americans say that fully funding transportation infrastructure is either “extremely important” or “very important” to them</span>. Yet solid majorities are opposed to any of the usual ways of funding new roads, including higher gas taxes or new tolls. It would be easy to point a finger at Congress, and we certainly do in the report. Reauthorization of the surface transportation bill, usually known as the highway bill, has always been contentious, but nevertheless it used to win approval routinely. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But the last multi-year bill expired in 2009 and has been replaced by a series of short-term extensions that make rational construction planning all but impossible for state and local governments</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The bill expires again June 30th, and congressional leaders again look unlikely to reach agreement and are predicting another short-term extension</span>. It will be the 10th; as a Miami Herald editorial put it recently, this marks “a new low in congressional irresponsibility.” But congressional inaction in many ways reflects public ambivalence. Americans want uncluttered highways, efficient airports, and seamless mass transit systems, but they are either reluctant to pay for these things or doubt the ability of governments to deliver. The overdue backlash against pork barrel politics for favored projects, for instance, seems to have hardened into a deeper public cynicism about the ability of government to deliver any needed public works. Even proposals like using a federal seed money to create a National Infrastructure Bank that would funnel private investor (not taxpayer) money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress. There are encouraging signs from some state and local governments. Chicago is launching a $7 billion Infrastructure Trust that will rely primarily on private investor capital to finance city projects. New York state has created a new state infrastructure bank intended to leverage $15 billion in investments into state projects. But <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">most big projects, and all interstate projects, require some active federal role</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and that is still missing</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">One of the more tragic aspects of the federal gridlock over infrastructure is that the United States is missing a golden opportunity that the rest of the world is handing us</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and one that probably won’t last for long</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The turmoil in Europe and the lack of developed capital markets in the rest of the world have led investors to continue buying up U.S. Treasuries at record low interest rates that are not even keeping pace with inflation</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">They are paying the U.S. government, in other words, to hold their money</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">And they are doing so despite big U.S. budget deficits that in more normal times would drive interest rates higher</span>. The United States should use some of that free money — along with the plentiful private capital that is searching for stable returns — to invest in projects that promise long-term payoffs in improved productivity that will strengthen the U.S. economy, as well as provide a much-needed short-term boost in employment. As the Progress Report and Scorecard clearly demonstrate, the United States has a lot of catching up to do. Now is the time to start.//

//Transportation infrastructure gets more expensive the longer we wait.//
//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Regan 12</span> (Ed Regan is a CDM Smith senior vice president based in Columbia, South Carolina, USA, and a preeminent thought leader on transportation finance and planning. Nearly 4 decades of dedication to the toll industry have fed his passion to advocate sustainable solutions for funding transportation infrastructure today and in the future. January 10, 2012, Falling Behind: A Crisis in Transportation Infrastructure Investment FUNDING FUTURE MOBILITY: EXIT 1, http://cdmsmith.com/en-US/Insights/Funding-Future-Mobility/Exit-1-Falling-Behind.aspx)//

//This is our first stop in a thought leadership series that discusses the current state of transportation infrastructure and explores future funding solutions. In “Falling Behind,” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we examine how today’s investments are not meeting the growing needs of the U.S. transportation system</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">creating a gap that will continue to grow if action isn’t taken.</span> Coming Up Short Recognizing a growing problem with infrastructure investment, the last federal transportation authorization bill in 2005 enacted by the U.S. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Congress established two independent commissions to address transportation policy and funding</span>: the National Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission and the National Transportation Infrastructure Finance Commission. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Both commissions identified huge shortfalls in transportation funding at virtually every level of government</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Assuming no improvement from current conditions over the next 25 years</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the finance commission forecasted average federal needs for capital transportation investments at $78 billion per yearand total investment at all government levels at $172 billion per year</span>. Assuming reasonable improvements in the system, including capacity expansion, the finance commission estimates rose to $100 billion per year in federal dollars and $215 billion per year at all levels of government. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The policy commission estimated even higher amounts will be needed.</span> Forecasts of revenue from current federal sources are expected to meet just 41 percent of needs without improvements to the system, and only 33 percent of the amount needed to improve the system. Similar shortfalls are shown at all levels of government. In short, the two commissions indicated that transportation funding needs to be increased between 175 and 240 percent over the next 25 years to maintain and improve transportation infrastructure. Inflation Brings Gas Tax Deflation Are these estimates realistic? A quick look at recent trends in the U.S. Highway Trust Fund (HTF) show they are. The HTF is the primary source of dedicated funding for transportation at the federal level. It was established with the advent of the federal gas tax in 1956 as a means to fund the interstate highway system. The current federal gas tax is $0.184 per gallon—slightly higher for diesel—and has not been increased in almost 20 years. This chart shows recent HTF trends and forecasts provided by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO). Revenue into the HTF had historically been close to outlays, but since 2008, outlays have significantly exceeded revenues. The HTF essentially went broke in 2008 and has required significant transfers of funding from the U.S. General Fund in each of the last 3 years. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">By 2015, just 3 years away, federal funding needs are expected to exceed revenues by $17 billion assuming no increase is made to the federal gas tax. Over the long term, there have been increases in both the federal and state gas tax levels, but they have not kept up with inflation</span>. As this chart shows, the total gas tax —including the federal and average state taxes—rose from $0.115 per gallon in 1963 to about $0.39 per gallon in 2009. After adjusting for inflation, the 2009 tax is equivalent to just $0.056 in 1963 dollars, a decrease of 50 percent in purchasing power in spite of several rate increases over 46 years. But the real demand for transportation investment comes from vehicle miles of travel, not gallons of fuel consumed. Over the years, we have seen significant improvements in fuel efficiency, which further erode the effective funding capacity of the per-gallon tax. Fleet fuel efficiency standards for the future have been aggressively increased, which will further reduce the funding capacity by another 45 percent by 2016. Hybrid and electric vehicles are great for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and our dependency on foreign oil, but they will have a major negative impact on transportation funding. The Cost of Falling Behind <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The U.S. transportation system is aging rapidly and is in bad need of reconstruction and rehabilitation</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Much of the interstate highway system is more than 50 years old, and reconstruction and expansion will cost 10 to 20 times its original cost</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There is a real cost to this underinvestment in transportation—a price paid every day by sitting in traffic, paying more for goods, and deteriorating competitiveness in an increasingly global economy</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) recently issued a report, entitled “Failure to Act,” which attempted to quantify the economic impact of underinvestment in infrastructure. It estimated in 2010, the cost to businesses and households was nearly $130 billion, including increased operating costs, safety issues and travel time that delays</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It also projected that this will increase to more than $500 billion per year by2040,with a cumulative economic cost over the next 30 years of $3 trillion ifcurrent transportation investment levels continue. </span>These ASCE estimates may well be conservative. In a recent report, Building America’s Future— a bipartisan coalition of elected officials dedicated to increasing infrastructure investment—puts the annual cost of urban congestion alone at $115 billion, noting that Americans waste 4.8 billion hours per year sitting in traffic. If the costs of delays to freight movement are factored in, congestion costs reach $200 billion per year—about 1.6 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product. Without significant increases in investment, at levels which will not only maintain but increase capacity, we can look forward to exponential growth in congestion in U.S. cities. Global Perspective Today, we see an increasingly global economy with a rapidly changing, competitive landscape. Never has mobility and transportation efficiency been more important to stay competitive in world markets. Thankfully, the United States has always led the world in transportation investment and innovations. At least until now. According to Building America’s Future, U.S. infrastructure was ranked first globally by the World Economic Forum’s 2005 index. In 2010, that number dropped to 15th. It is clear that the United States is facing an uphill battle to improve funding systems and bridge the widening gap between its current transportation system and the worldwide norm. In our next series installment, we will explore how much investment is actually being made in this vital system.//

//Declining transportation infrastructure is undermining the economy - investment alone will create __millions__ of jobs in the short-term//
//<span class="Cite">Donohue 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> --- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” http://dallasmobility.org/Newsroom/09-08-11%20Christian%20Science%20Monitor%20-%20The%20highway%20to%20jobs%20via%20better%20infrastructure.pdf) </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As Obama and Congress talk jobs, here's an appeal from the US Chamber of Commerce: Invest heavily in roads, air transport, and other infrastructure. The economy and jobs depend on it. Adopt innovative financing, including an infrastructure bank to leverage private investment. </span>__Throughout America's history, feats in infrastructure, like the Interstate Highway System, have__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> not only </span>__been__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> symbols of national achievement but also </span>__conduits for commerce and keys to prosperity__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Today__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, however, </span>__much of this foundation of the US economy is costly, cracked, and crumbling. Roads, rail, airports, and harbors need continual investment to keep pace with demand.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Recent research by the US Chamber of Commerce discovered that underperforming transport infrastructure cost the US economy nearly $2 trillion in lost gross domestic product in 2008 and 2009. The chamber's Transportation Performance Index showed that America's transit system is not keeping up with growing demands and is failing to meet the needs of the business community and consumers. Most important, the </span>__research proved for the first time that there is a **direct relationship between transportation infrastructure performance and GDP**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The index findings also showed that if America invests wisely in infrastructure, it can become more reliable, predictable, and safe. </span>__By improving underperforming transport infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__the____U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>__could unlock nearly $1 trillion in economic potential__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span> __Making investments that tackle immediate challenges, like congestion, and that account for growing demand into the future, America would boost productivity and economic growth in the long run and support millions of jobs in the near term.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Investment in infrastructure would also improve quality of life by reducing highway fatalities and accidents and easing traffic congestion that costs the public $115 billion a year in lost time and wasted fuel - $808 out of the pocket of every motorist. Such an investment would also allow the country to better protect the environment while increasing mobility. </span>__If America fails to adequately invest in transportation infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__by 2020 it will lose $897 billion in economic growth. Businesses will see their transportation costs rise by $430 billion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and the average American household income will drop by more than $7,000. US exports will decline by $28 billion. Meanwhile, </span>__global competitors will surge past us with superior infrastructure that will attract jobs, businesses, and capital__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. So how can the US get its infrastructure to go from insufficient and declining to safe, competitive, and productive? An obvious place to start is for Congress to pass core bills for surface transportation, aviation, and water programs - at current funding levels. Congress must move forward with multiyear reauthorizations to restore the nation's highways; modernize air traffic control and improve a irports; and maintain American ports, harbors, dams, and levees.Doing so would enable communities to plan projects, hire employees, and prevent devastating layoffs of existing workers. Reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration alone would help keep 70,000 workers on the job. Next, America should expand energy infrastructure to support growing needs. A great example is the Keystone XL pipeline to connect Canadian oil sands with Texas refineries. The sooner the project is approved and construction begins, the sooner the US can rake in the benefits of added investment and government revenues, job creation, and more resources to fuel energy needs and keep costs down for businesses and consumers. Likewise, the US can't let a needlessly cumbersome permitting process stand in the way of infrastructure development. The administration should limit environmental reviews to six months and forgo reviews when no significant environmental impact is expected. Duplicative reviews by state and federal governments should be prevented and, when multiple agencies are involved, a lead agency should be appointed to coordinate actions and move things along. Accelerating the permitting process would quickly mobilize construction and hiring from one end of the country to the other. </span>__In this era of tight government budgets, America must adopt innovative financing approaches and spur on public-private partnerships. A national infrastructure bank must be a part of a long-term investment strategy.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> An initial government investment of $10 billion could leverage up to $600 billion in private funds.But regulatory impediments must also be removed. They take an estimated $250 billion in global capital out of play. If that private capital were invested in infrastructure projects, it could create 1.9 million jobs over 10 years and spur untold economic growth. As for public investments, sooner or later we'll have to face the fact that the federal fuel tax has not been raised 1 cent in 17 years. The country needs modest, phased-in increase. Comprehensively restoring America's infrastructure and revitalizing the economy are monumental tasks. Fortunately, we are the same nation that built our world-class system in the first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are. </span>//

//US slowing down causes double dip//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rahman 11</span> <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Ashfaqur, former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies.. “Another global recession?”. August 21. http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461)</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Several developments, especially in Europe and the US, fan this fear</span><span class="Underline">. First, </span>the US recovery from the last recession has been fragile.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Its economy is much more susceptible to geopolitical shocks. Second there is a rise in fuel prices. The political instability in the Middle East is far from over. This is causing risks for the country and the international economy. Third, the global food prices in July this year is markedly higher than a year ago, almost 35% more. Commodities such as maize (up 84%), sugar (up 62%), wheat (up 55%), soybean oil (up 47%) have seen spike in their prices. Crude oil prices have also risen by 45%, affecting production costs. </span>In the US, even though its debt ceiling has been raised and the country can<span class="Underline"> now </span>continue to borrow, credit agencies have downgraded its credit rating<span class="Underline"> and therefore its stock markets have started to flounder.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> World Bank President Zoellick recently said: "There was a convergence of some events in Europe and the US that has led many market participants to lose confidence in economic leadership of the key countries." He added: "</span>Those events<span class="Underline">, combined with other fragilities in the nature of recovery, </span>have pushed US into a<span class="Underline"> new </span>danger zone." Employment in the US has,<span class="Underline"> therefore, </span>come<span class="Underline"> near </span>to a<span class="Underline"> grinding </span>halt.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Prices of homes there continue to slide. </span>Consumer and business spending is slowing<span class="Underline"> remarkably. So, </span>when the<span class="Underline"> giant </span>consumer economy slows down, there would be less demand for goods<span class="Underline"> she buys from abroad</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, even from countries like Bangladesh. </span>This would lead to decline in exports<span class="Underline"> from such countries to the US. </span>Then these economies would start to slide<span class="Underline"> too, leading to factory closures and unemployment on a large scale. </span>There would be less money available for economic development activities<span class="Underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Adding to the woes of the US economy are the travails of European economies. There, countries like Greece and Portugal, which are heavily indebted, have already received a first round of bailout. But this is not working. A second bailout has been given to Greece. But these countries remain in deep economic trouble. Bigger economies like Spain and Italy are also on the verge of bankruptcy. More sound economies like France and Germany are unwilling to provide money through the European Central Bank to bail them out. A proposal to issue Euro bonds to be funded by all the countries of the Euro Zone has also not met with approval. A creeping fear of the leaders of such big economies is that their electorate is not likely to agree to fund bankruptcies in other countries through the taxes they pay. Inevitably, they are saying that these weaker economies must restrain expenditures and thereby check indebtedness and live within their means. Thus, with fresh international bailouts not in the horizon and with possibilities of a debt default by countries like Greece, there is a likelihood of a ripple going through the world's financial system. Now what is recession and especially one with a global dimension ? There is no commonly accepted definition of a recession or for that matter of a global recession. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) regards periods when global growth is less than 3% to be a global recession. During this period, global per capita output growth is zero or negative and unemployment and bankruptcies are on the rise. Recession within a country implies that there is a business cycle contraction. It occurs when "there is a widespread drop in spending following an adverse supply shock or the bursting of an economic bubble." The most common indicator is "two down quarters of GDP." That is, when GDP of a country does not increase for six months. When recession occurs there is a slowdown in economic activity. Overall consumption, investment, government spending and net exports fall. Economic drivers such as employment, household savings, corporate investments, interest rates are on the wane. Interestingly, recession can be of several types. Each type may be literally of distinctive shapes. Thus V-shaped, or a short and sharp contraction, is common. It is usually followed by a rapid and sustained recovery. A U-shaped slump is a prolonged recession. The W-shaped slowdown of the economy is a double dip recession. There is also an L-shaped recession when, in 8 out of 9 three-monthly quarters, the economy is spiraling downward. So </span><span class="Underline">what type of recession can the world expect in the next quarter? Experts say that it could be a</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> W-shaped one, known as a </span><span class="Underline">double dip </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">type.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> But let us try to understand why the world is likely to face another recession, when it has just emerged from the last one, the Great Recession in 2010. Do not forget that this recession had begun in 2007 with the "mortgage and the derivative" scandal when the real estate and property bubble burst. Today, </span><span class="Underline">many say that the last recession had never ended. Despite official data that shows recovery, it was only a modest recovery.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> So, </span><span class="Underline">when the recession hit the US in 2007 it was the Great Recession I. The US government fought it by stimulating their economy with large bailouts. But this time, for the Great Recession II, which we may be entering,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">there is a completely different response**.** </span><span class="Underline">Politicians are squabbling over how much to cut spending</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. T</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">herefore**,** </span><span class="Underline">we may be in a new double dip or W-shaped recession.</span>//


//Third is Political Gridlock –//

//An infrastructure bank overcomes status quo funding failures, gets rid of political gridlock, and enables large-scale projects//
//<span class="Cite">McConaghy and Kessler 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">--- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND **Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]], )**</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. Today, our infrastructure is far from meeting the challenge. Upgrading our existing infrastructure and building new conduits to generate commerce will put people to work quickly in long-term jobs and will create robust growth. </span>Funding for new infrastructure will be<span class="Underline"> a </span>crucial<span class="Underline"> investment with substantial future benefits, but </span>the current way that Congress doles out infrastructure financing is too political and wasteful. A National Infrastructure Bank will provide a new way to harness public and private capital to bridge the infrastructure gap, create jobs, and ensure a<span class="Underline"> successful and </span>secure future__.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">THE PROBLEM </span><span class="Underline">America’s investment in infrastructure is not sufficient to spur robust growth.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> In October, </span>__Governor__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Chris </span>__Christie announced his intention to terminate New Jersey’s participation in the Access to the Region’s Core__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (ARC) </span>__Tunnel project, citing cost overruns__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that threatened to add anywhere from $2-$5 billion to the tunnel’s almost $9 billion price tag. At the time, Christie stated, “Considering the unprecedented fiscal and economic climate our State is facing, it is completely unthinkable to borrow more money and leave taxpayers responsible for billions in cost overruns. The ARC project costs far more than New Jersey taxpayers can afford and the only prudent move is to end this project.”1 </span>__Despite the fact that the project is absolutely necessary for future economic growth in the__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> New Jersey-New York </span>__region__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and would have created thousands of jobs, </span>__it was__** __held captive to significant cost escalation, barriers to cooperation between local, state, and federal actors, and just plain politics.__ **<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Sadly, </span>__these factors are increasingly endemic in the execution of major infrastructure projects__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__America’s infrastructure has fallen into a state of disrepair, and will be insufficient to meet future demands and foster competitive growth without significant new investment.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> However, the public is fed up with massive deficits and cost overruns, and increasingly consider deficit reduction to be a bigger economic priority than infrastructure investment.2 They have lost confidence in government’s ability to choose infrastructure projects wisely, complete them, and bring them in on budget. At the same time, </span>**__traditional sources of funding are strained to the breaking point__ **__and federal support is hindered by an inefficient process for selecting projects__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Finding the resources necessary to construct new infrastructure will be also be a significant challenge. </span>__A new of way of choosing and funding infrastructure projects— from roads, bridges, airports, rail, and seaports__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to broadband and power transmission upgrades—</span>__is necessary to ensure growth and create jobs in America.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> America’s infrastructure isn’t ready to meet future growth needs. The safety risks and economic costs associated with the deterioration of America’s infrastructure are increasingly apparent across multiple sectors. The American Society of Civil Engineers has awarded the nation’s overall infrastructure a grade of D.3 Since 1990, demand for electricity has increased by about 25% but construction of new transmission has decreased by 30%.4 Over about the last 25 years, the number of miles traveled by cars and trucks approximately doubled but America’s highway lane miles increased by only 4.4%.5 Over 25% of America’s bridges are de!cient6 and about 25% of its bus and rail assets are in marginal or poor condition.7 America’s broadband penetration rate ranks only 14th among OECD countries.8 </span>__As America’s population and economic activity increases, the stress on its infrastructure will only grow.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The number of trucks operating daily on each mile of the Interstate Highway system is expected to jump from 10,500 to 22,700 by 2035,9 while freight volumes will have increased by 70% over 1998 levels.10 It is also expected that transit ridership will double by 2030 and that the number of commercial air passengers will increase by 36% from 2006 to 2015.11 Total electricity use is projected to increase by 1148 billion kWh from 2008 to 2035.12 In order to cope, America’s infrastructure will need a significant upgrade. America’s infrastructure deficit hurts its competitiveness and is a drain on the economy. </span>__America’s infrastructure gap poses a serious threat to our prosperity__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In 2009, the amount of waste due to congestion equaled 4.8 billion hours (equivalent to 10 weeks worth of relaxation time for the average American) and 3.9 billion gallons of gasoline, costing $115 billion in lost fuel and productivity.13 </span>__Highway bottlenecks__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> are estimated to </span>__cost__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> freight trucks about $</span>__8 billion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in economic costs per year,14 and in 2006, total logistics costs for American businesses increased to 10% of GDP.15 </span>__Flight delays cost Americans $9 billion in lost productivity each year__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,16 and power disruptions caused by an overloaded electrical grid cost between $25 billion and $180 billion annually.17 These </span>__losses sap wealth from our economy and drain resources that could otherwise fuel recovery and growth.____The infrastructure gap also hinders America’s global competitiveness__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Logistics costs for American business are on the rise, but similar costs in countries like Germany, Spain, and France are set to decrease.18 And while America’s infrastructure spending struggles to keep pace,19 </span>__several main global competitors are poised to make significant infrastructure enhancements__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. China leads the world with a projected $9 trillion in infrastructure investments slated for the next ten years, followed by India, Russia, and Brazil.20 In a recent survey, 90% of business executives around the world indicated that the quality and availability of infrastructure plays a key role in determining where they do business.21 </span>__If America is going to remain on strong economic footing compared to its competitors, it must address its infrastructure challenges__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. There are too many cost overruns and unnecessary projects—but not enough funds. </span>__Cost overruns on infrastructure projects are increasingly prevalent and exact real costs__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. One survey of projects around the world found that costs were underestimated for almost 90% of projects, and that cost escalation on transportation projects in North America was almost 25%.22 Boston’s Central Artery/Tunnel Project (a.k.a. the “Big Dig”) came in 275% over budget, adding $11 billion to the cost of the project. The construction of the Denver International Airport cost 200% more than anticipated. The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge retrofit project witnessed overruns of $2.5 billion—more than 100% of the original project cost— before construction even got underway.23 And of course, there are the “bridge to nowhere” earmarks that solve a political need, but not an economic one. </span>__The current system for funding projects is subject to inefficiency and bureaucratic complication. Funding for infrastructure improvements is divided unevenly among federal, state, local, and private actors based on sector.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">24 </span>__Even in instances where the federal government provides funding, it has often ceded or delegated project selection and oversight responsibilities to state, local, and other recipients,__** __weakening linkages to federal program goals and efforts to ensure accountability**.**__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">25 </span>__Federal efforts are also hampered by organization and funding allocations based strictly on specific types of transportation, as opposed to a system-wide approach, which create inefficiencies that hinder collaboration and effective investment.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">26 </span>__Complicating matters even further are the emergence of__** __multi-state “megaregions,” which have common needs that require multijurisdictional planning and decision making ability**.**__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">27 Infrastructure funding has also become significantly politicized. Congressional earmarking in multi-year transportation bills has skyrocketed from 10 projects in the STAA of 1982 to over 6,300 projects in the most recent bill (SAFETEA-LU).28 Even under a working system, the infrastructure improvements necessary to foster growth will require substantial investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that it would require $2.2 trillion over the next five years to bring our overall infrastructure up to par.29 However, </span>__sources of funding for infrastructure improvements are under significant strain and may not be sufficient__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.30 The Highway Trust Fund has already experienced serious solvency challenges, and inadequate revenues could lead to a $400 billion funding shortfall from 2010 to 2015.31 </span>__The finances of state and local governments, which are responsible for almost three-quarters of public infrastructure spending__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,32 </span>__have been severely impaired__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__At least 46 states have budget shortfalls in the current fiscal year, and it is likely that state financial woes will continue in the near future__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.33 In a recent survey by the National Association of Counties, 47% of respondents indicated more severe budget shortfalls than anticipated, 82% said that shortfalls will continue into the next year, and 54% reported delaying capital investments to cope.34 </span>__THE SOLUTION A National Infrastructure Bank__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America’s emerging infrastructure needs, Third Way supports the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank (NIB). </span>__The NIB would be a stand-alone entity capitalized with federal funds, and would be able to use those funds through loans, guarantees, and other financial tools to leverage private financing for projects. As such, the NIB would be poised to seize the opportunity presented by historically low borrowing costs in order to generate the greatest benefit for the lowest taxpayer cost.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Projects would be selected by the bank’s independent, bipartisan leadership based on merit and demonstrated need. Evaluation criteria may include economic benefit, job creation, energy independence, congestion relief, regional benefit, and other public good considerations. Potential sectors for investment could include the full range or any combination of rail, road, transit, ports, dams, air travel, clean water, power grid, broadband, and others. The NIB will reform the system to cut waste, and emphasize merit and need. </span>__As a bank, the NIB would inject accountability into the infrastructure investment process__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Since the bank would offer loans and loan guarantees using a combination of public and private capital, it would have the opportunity to move away from the traditional design-bid-build model and toward project delivery mechanisms that would deliver better value to taxpayers and investors.35 </span>__By operating on principles more closely tied to return on investment and financial discipline, the NIB would help to prevent the types cost escalation and project delays that have foiled the ARC Tunnel.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> America’s infrastructure policy has been significantly hampered by the lack of a national strategy rooted in clear, overarching objectives used to evaluate the merit of specific projects. </span>__The politicization and lack of coordination of the process has weakened public faith in the ability of government to effectively meet infrastructure challenges__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In polling, 94% of respondents expressed concern about America’s infrastructure and over 80% supported increased federal and state investment. However, 61% indicated that improved accountability should be the top policy goal and only 22% felt that the federal government was effective in addressing infrastructure challenges.36 As a stand-alone entity, </span>__the NIB would address__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> these </span>__concerns by selecting projects for funding across sectors based on broadly demonstrated need and ability to meet defined policy goals, such as economic benefit, energy independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. </span>__By providing a new and innovative mechanism for project financing, the NIB could help provide funding for projects stalled by monetary constraints. This is particularly true for large scale projects that may be too complicated or costly for traditional means of financing.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> In the short-term, providing resources for infrastructure investment would have clear, positive impacts for recovery and growth. It has been estimated that every $1 billion in highway investment supports 30,000 jobs,37 and that every dollar invested in infrastructure increases GDP by $1.59.38 It has also been projected that an investment of $10 billion into both broadband and smart grid infrastructure would create 737,000 jobs.39 In the longer-term, </span>__infrastructure investments supported by the NIB will allow the U.S. to meet future demand, reduce the waste currently built into the system, and__** __keep pace with competition from global rivals.__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The NIB will harness private capital to help government pay for new projects. </span>__The NIB would magnify the impact of federal funds by leveraging them through partnerships with private entities and other actors, providing taxpayers with more infrastructure bang for their public buck. Estimates have placed the amount of private capital readily available for infrastructure development at $400 billion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,40 </span>__and as of 2007, sovereign wealth funds—another potential source of capital—were estimated to control over $3 trillion in assets with the potential to control $12 trillion by 2012.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">41 While these and other institutional funds have experienced declines as a result of the economic downturn, they will continue to be important sources of large, long-term investment resources. </span>__By offering loan guarantees to induce larger private investments or issuing debt instruments and securities,__** __the NIB could tap these vast pools of private capital to generate investments much larger than its initial capitalization__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In doing so, it could also lower the cost of borrowing for municipalities by lowering interest on municipal bonds for state and local governments by 50 to 100 basis points.42 </span>__The NIB would also be poised to help taxpayers take full advantage of historically low borrowing costs__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In 2010, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries reached a historic low of 3.22%, as compared to a rate of 6.03% in 2000 and a peak rate of 13.92% in 1981. Prior to the Great Recession, this rate had not dipped below 4% since 1962.43 By allowing government and private actors to access financing at historically low rates, </span>__the NIB would help to__** __capitalize on a once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.__//


//**Fourth is Private Sector Uncertainty –**//

//**An infrastructure bank solves the barriers to infrastructure investment – solves private sector uncertainty**//
//**<span class="Cite">Tyson et al. 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council, </span>**Phillips, former President of Oracle, MBA @ Hampton University, member of the Economic Recovery Advisory Board, ***Wolf, CEO and Chairman of UBS Americas, member of the Economic Recovery Advisor Board, BS in Economics @ Wharton [Laura, Charles, Robert, The Wall Street Journal, “The U.S. Needs and Infrastructure Bank,” January 15, 2010, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704586504574654682516084584.html]]</span>, TJ]**//

//**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">We believe that </span>the NIB should be structured as a <span class="Underline">wholly </span>owned government entity to keep borrowing costs low, align its interests with the public's, and avoid the conflicting incentives of quasi-government agencies.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">We also recommend that the NIB be run by a government-appointed board of professionals with the requisite expertise to evaluate complex projects based on objective cost-benefit analysis. </span><span class="Underline">Today, </span>projects are subject to the uncertainties of the<span class="Underline"> opaque </span>congressional appropriations process,<span class="Underline"> which is how we end up with</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> proverbial and actual</span><span class="Underline"> bridges to nowhere. The private sector raised over $100 billion in</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> dedicated </span><span class="Underline">infrastructure funds</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in recent years, </span><span class="Underline">but most of that money is being spent</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> on infrastructure projects </span><span class="Underline">outside the U.S. </span>The NIB could attract private funds to co-invest in projects that pass rigorous cost-benefit tests<span class="Underline">, a</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nd that generate revenues through user fees or revenue guarantees from state and local governments. </span>Investors could choose which projects meet their investment criteria<span class="Underline">, and,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in return, </span><span class="Underline">share in project risks that today fall solely on taxpayers. </span>The NIB would not only help the nation meet the infrastructure needs of the future, it would also support the economy's recovery over time<span class="Underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">According to a study by Moody's Economy.com, </span><span class="Underline">an increase in infrastructure spending of $1 increases GDP by about $1.59. </span>This spending creates real jobs<span class="Underline">, particularly in the construction industry, which accounted for about a quarter of the nation's total job losses</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">last year and shed another 53,000 jobs in December alone. </span><span class="Underline">Construction could face years of anemic growth, and the NIB could help boost this sector. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">We are not advocating make-work projects, but wiser and timelier investment in sorely needed projects of national significance. President Obama has proposed $25 billion in federal funding for a national infrastructure bank in his 2010 budget. Whatever the amount of initial funding, we think it's important to establish the bank now and then justify its continued funding based on its performance and investment returns.</span>**//


//**AND IMPACTS –**//
//Economic decline leads to war**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Royal 10</span> <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">— Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” </span>//Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)//

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Thus, the answer to the first question set out at the beginning of this section, whether economic integration and economic crises are linked, seems reasonably well-established. Substantial recent scholarship indicates a positive association between interdependence and economic crises. What then about the second question? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Is there</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">correlation between econ</span>omic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">crises and armed conflict?</span> The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">impacts at an individual level and on a state level are</span> intuitive and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">well-documented</span> (see. e.g., Richards & Gelleny, 2006). Rodrik (1997a, 1997b), among others, argues that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">instability in the global economic system contributes to social disintegration and political conflict. Social unrest, regime change and</span> even <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">civil war have directly resulted from</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">vagaries of economic integration.</span>3 / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">likelihood of external conflict.</span> Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent stales. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Research</span> in this vein <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow.</span> / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">First, on the systemic level, Pollins</span> (2008) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">advances Modelski and Thompson's</span> (1996) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global econ</span>omy <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are associated with</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as econ</span>omic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">crises could usher in</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">redistribution of relative power</span> (see also Gilpin, 1981) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">risk of miscalc</span>ulation (Fearon. 1995). Alternatively, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">even</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may</span> seek to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">challenge a declining power</span> (Werner. 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland’s</span> (1996. 2000) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">theory of trade expectations suggests</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“future expectation of trade” is a significant variable in understanding econ</span>omic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">conditions and security behaviour of states.</span> He argues that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">interdependent states</span> are likely to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations.</span> However, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">if</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">expectations</span> of future trade <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">decline</span>, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to</span> those <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">resources. Crises could</span> potentially be the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">trigger</span> for <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">decreased trade expectations</span> either <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves</span> by interdependent states.4 / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Third</span>, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">at a national level. Blomberg and Hess</span> (2002) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">find</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write,</span> / The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which</span> in turn <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">returns the favour.</span> Moreover, the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">presence of</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other.</span> (Blomberg & Hess. 2002. p. 89) / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Econ</span>omic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">decline has</span> also <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">been linked with</span> an <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">increase</span> in the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">likelihood of terrorism</span> (Blomberg- Hess, & Weerapana. 2004), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">which has</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions.</span> / Furthermore, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">crises generally reduce</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">popularity of a sitting government. 'Diversionary theory' suggests that, when facing unpopularity</span> arising <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">from econ</span>omic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">'rally around the flag' effect. Wang</span> (1996), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">DeRouen</span> (1995), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker</span> (2006) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">find</span> supporting <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">evidence showing</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">econ</span>omic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi</span> (1997), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Miller</span> (1999), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and Kisangani and Pickering</span> (2009) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">suggest</span> that the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are</span> generally <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen</span> (2000) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has provided evidence showing</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">periods of weak econ</span>omic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">performance in the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to</span> an <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">increase in</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">use of force.</span> / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In summary</span><span class="SmalltextChar">, recent </span>economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">political science scholarship links econ</span>omic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">decline with external conflict at </span></span>
systemic//,// dyadic //and// national levels//.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

Double dips yield escalation of wars.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Financial Times ’10</span> ( Tina Fordham, Staff Writer, “ Investors can’t ignore the rise of geopolitical risk”, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/dc71f272-7a14-11df-9871-00144feabdc0.html) SRK

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Geopolitical risk is on the rise after years of relative quiet</span> – <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">potentially creating further headwinds to the global recovery just as fears of a double-dip recession are growing</span>, says Tina Fordham, senior political analyst at Citi Private Bank. “Recently, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">markets have been focused on problems within the eurozone and not much movedby developments in North Korea, new Iran sanctions, tensions between Turkey and Israel</span> or the unrest in strategically significant Kyrgyzstan,” she says. “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But taken together, we don’t think investors can afford to ignore the return of geopolitical concerns to the fragile post-financial crisis environment</span>.” Ms Fordham argues <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the end of post-Cold War US pre-eminence is one of the most important by-products of the financial crisis.</span> “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The post-crisis world order is shifting. More players than ever are at the table</span>, and their interests often diverge. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Emerging market countries have greater weight in the system, yet many lack experience on the global stage</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Addressing the world’s challenges in this more crowded environment will be slower and more complex</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This increases the potential for proliferating risks</span>: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">most notably the prospect of politically and/or economically weakened regimes obtaining nuclear weapons</span>; <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and military action to keep them from doing so</span>. “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Left unresolved, these challenges could disrupt global stability</span> and trade. This would be a very unwelcome time to see the return of geopolitical risk.”

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nuclear war</span>
<span class="Cite">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span> “Increased Potential for Global Conflict)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, </span><span class="Underline">history may be more instructive than ever</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. While we continue to believe that </span>the Great Depression<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> is not likely to be repeated, the </span>lessons<span class="Underline"> t</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">o be drawn from that period </span>include<span class="Underline"> the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s</span><span class="Underline">) and</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> on the </span><span class="Underline">sustainability of multilateral institutions </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(think League of Nations in the same period). </span><span class="Underline">There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">For that reason, the ways in which </span><span class="Underline">the </span>potential for greater conflict<span class="Underline"> could grow</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> would seem to be even more apt </span>in a constantly volatile economic environment<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. </span><span class="Underline">Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach</span><span class="Underline">. </span>Terrorist groups<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in 2025 </span>will<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks_and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that </span>become self-radicalized<span class="Underline">, particularly </span>in the absence of economic outlets<span class="Underline"> that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any </span>economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence<span class="Underline"> would</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> almost certainly </span><span class="Underline">be the Middle East.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable,</span><span class="Underline"> worries</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> about a nuclear-armed Iran </span>could lead states<span class="Underline"> in the region </span>to develop new security arrangements<span class="Underline"> with external powers, </span>acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity </span>conflict<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella </span>could lead to an unintended escalation<span class="Underline"> and broader conflict</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. T</span><span class="Underline">he close proximity of potential nuclear rivals </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also </span><span class="Underline">will produce inherent difficulties</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, </span><span class="Underline">short </span>warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">of Iranian intentions </span>may place<span class="Underline"> more </span>focus on preemption<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">rather than defense, potentially </span>leading to escalating crises<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> 36 Types of </span>conflict<span class="Underline"> t</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">hat the world continues to experience, such as </span>over resources, could reemerge<span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> particularly if </span>protectionism<span class="Underline"> grows </span>and<span class="Underline"> there is a resort to </span>neo-mercantilist practices<span class="Underline">. </span>Perceptions<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this </span>couldresult in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources<span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> for example, to be </span>essential for<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> maintaining domestic stability and the </span>survival of their regime<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. </span><span class="Underline">If the fiscal stimulus focus for</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> these </span><span class="Underline">countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> naval </span><span class="Underline">capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. </span>With water<span class="Underline"> also </span>becoming scarcer<span class="Underline"> in Asia and the Middle East, </span>cooperation<span class="Underline"> to manage changing water resources </span>is<span class="Underline"> likely to be </span>increasingly difficult<span class="Underline"> both within and between states </span>in<span class="Underline"> a more </span>dog-eat-dog world<span class="Underline">. </span>


Observation 2 is Solvency

An infrastructure bank results in more critical review processes to guarantee net profit, results in more private investment and enhances competitiveness that cannot be achieved by a state run bank
<span class="Cite">Thomasson 11</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Testimony of Scott Thomasson Progressive Policy Institute—published October 12, 2011—congressional testimony—Scott Thomasson is the director of the Progressive Policy Institute’s economic and domestic policies—The PPI is a D.C. based think tank founded in 1989 that has a long legacy of promoting break-the-mold ideas relating to economic growth, national security and policy innovation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/92300621/Congressional-Testimony-National-Infrastructure-Bank-Separating-Myths-from-Realities]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">There are also </span>advantages a national bank could offer to state infrastructure banks to expand their investment options and<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> lower their borrowing costs. A national bank </span>could assist states in financing large<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, expensive </span>projects that are beyond the scale of state bank capitalization or lending power. A national bank would also be better able to evaluate and finance projects of regional and national significance<span class="Underline">—</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">those </span>that produce clear economic benefits<span class="Underline"> t</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">o the country, but which otherwise wouldnot benefit any one state enough to justify bearing the cost alone. And </span>a properly structured national bank would have much lower borrowing costs than state banks<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, particularly with U.S. Treasury ratesat historically low levels, as they are now. </span><span class="Underline">Those savings could be passed through to states bypartnering with state banks to finance projects selected and preapproved by the states themselves. </span>By improving the economics<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of such projects, </span>the national bank would also make them more attractive to investors, making more private capital available to states to leverage scarce taxpayer dollars.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">In short, the approaches used so far to expand public investment tools and mobilize private capital for infrastructure financing have been positive steps for the country. But even with more money, they can not address all of our national investment needs, and they should not be thought of as substitutes for a national infrastructure bank, but rather as complementary partners to the bank.Misconceptions About the National Infrastructure Bank As the unavoidable costs of repairing and maintaining our nation’s infrastructure climb into thetrillions of dollars, the time has come for a clear-eyed look at how a national bank might be onepiece of a multi-pronged approach to making the investments we need. Doing that means we need toput aside polarizing rhetoric from both sides and talk frankly about what a national infrastructurebank is, and what it is not. The driving motivation behind the national infrastructure bank is twofold. First, t</span><span class="Underline">he financing offered by the bank would provide an additional tool for reducing the costs of new projects and attracting private capital to share in the risks and expenses of these investments. </span>The bank would be an optional tool available to states and local governments and for federally-sponsored projects likeNextGen<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Air Traffic Control. Second</span><span class="Underline">, </span>the bank’s evaluation and financing of projects would be atransparent and predictable process, staffed by professional finance experts and guided by clearlydefined, merit-based criteria. This would ensure that at least some portion of our public investmentdecisions would focus on projects that will generate economic benefits and enhance competitiveness at a national or regional level.

An infrastructure foundation would solve best – no other program compares.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Anderson 11</span> (Norman, the president and CEO of CG/LA Infrastructure, “The Case For The Kerry-Hutchison Infrastructure Bank”, March 25, http://progressivepolicy.org/the-case-for-the-kerry-hutchison-infrastructure-bank)

As a small business owner who helps people think through infrastructure issues, I’m struck by the extraordinary opportunity here. We’re all aware of the need: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A national infrastructure bank that uses federal borrowing authority to leverage private investment for roads</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">bridges, water systems and power grids is the only way for the U.S. to increase infrastructure investments in tight fiscal times</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">And the technical opportunity is irrefutable</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Why not raise money for infrastructure at a time of historically low borrowing costs? </span>What’s more, every major economy in the world has an infrastructure bank, so we should have one, too. Need is not the issue. Opportunity is. We need a model for smart government. Forget the weirdly inefficient, old-style European model. Re-engineering an old public sector is nearly impossible, and no one has the patience for it anyway. Think about a national infrastructure bank as an exercise in creating smart government, in an area that is strategically important for the future of our country. Doubling Annual Investment <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A high-functioning infrastructure bank would have three characteristics</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">shaping its overall role of doubling our annual investment in infrastructure, from $150 billion a year to $300 billion</span>. First, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the role of the infrastructure bank is catalyticrather than managerial</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rather than creating a large bureaucracy, the bank would assemble a corps of focused professionals: engineers, financiers, economists and what I term strategic leaders — people who get things done</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">driven by a vision to make this country more competitive</span>. Their job will be to set projects in motion, then to make sure that those projects meet or exceed guidelines. Monitor, not manage; act strategically, not operationally. Move fast, don’t get bogged down, get the job done. The result will be an elite, rapid, infinitely smaller and infinitely more qualified leadership team than what we have today, an instructive model for other infrastructure related agencies at every level of government. Energize Private Sector Second, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the function of the infrastructure bank is to guide and energize the private sector</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">An infrastructure bank goes into the guts of the process — project selection — and gets at the frightening issue of cost</span>. Our costs are often twice that of our European brothers for urban mass transit projects, 10 times those of China. The bank’s day-to-day business will be to invest in ventures and networks of ventures that serve for 20, 30, 40 even 50 years, providing a competitive return throughout that period. In this sense the bank will be a welcome, violent change agent, smashing open three areas in the infrastructure project-creation process that are costing this country a fortune: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">– It takes more than 10 years on average for a project to move through the approval process, a period that would need to be reduced to three years for projects to be bankable.</span> – <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">At least 50 percent of large U.S. projects suffer cost overruns in the 30 percent-or-greater range. This would be eliminated through bank leadership. </span>– The selection of projects tends to be willy-nilly, based on political interests. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A bank ideally would be a model of focus, restricting its attention to projects that generate competitiveness.</span> Results Oriented Lastly, the infrastructure bank will be results oriented and transparent: your bank, investing in your public assets. The bank will be a great experiment in the Facebook Age, bringing in funds from all over the world to build our strategic infrastructure. The very nature of the smart-government model is to set goals and report performance. This new institution will go beyond that, creating knowledge, developing metrics and pioneering ways of communicating: from project approvals, to performance reporting to championing new technology. Maybe the Kerry/Hutchison proposal is the opening salvo in a bipartisan effort to build smart government. Thinking about an American infrastructure bank in this way makes an attractive experiment that we have to explore. Creating a model in an area critical to our economic future is a strategic option we can’t ignore. Recognizing that the bank would double our infrastructure investment and increase the efficiency of each dollar spent is a good deal for every citizen.


==Bronx 1AC== 

Sorry, there doesn't seem to be a non-stolen-directly-off-some-really-good-team's-wiki's version of the aff. So..... there's no tags.
(I read this thing off paper with pink highlighting, give me a break :\)
(just imagine the tags, you'll be fine.)
(Gahhhhh I put the tags in haha ~T)

=Plan Text:= 

__<span style="font-size: 25.3333px;">The United States federal government should capitalize a bank to substantially increase transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>__


=Advantage One: Growth= 

A lack of stimulus now will inevitably lead to a double dip by 2013
**Rasmus 12** (Jack Rasmus, Ph.D., Political Economy, “U. S. GDP—Why U.S. Slowdown Will Continue,” 7-28-2012, [[http://www.unions.org/home/union-blog/2012/07/31/u-s-gdp-why-u-s-slowdown-will-continue/]])

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">On Friday, July 27, 2012 the US Department of Commerce released its report on Gross Domestic Product (GDP) results for the 2nd quarter for the US economy, with GDP revisions for the economy as well from 2009 through 2011. </span>Last winter the<span class="Underline"> broad </span>consensus among<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> mainstream </span>economists, politicians and the press was the US economy was<span class="Underline"> finally on the way to recovery.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Economic indicator after indicator was flashing green, they argued, proving recovery was in full swing. </span>GDP for the 4th quarter 2011 recorded<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> a moderately healthy </span>4% growth rate and was predicted<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">by widespread sectors of the media </span>would continue. But GDP numbers just released<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> on </span>July 27<span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> 2012 </span>show that 4% growth dropped<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> precipitously by half, </span>to only 2%.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> And in the latest report issued last week, </span>2nd quarter 2012 GDPcontinued to fall further to only 1.5%.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> GDP for the first half of this year therefore has averaged about 1.7%–which is about the same 1.7% GDP growth for all of 2011. </span>The US economy<span class="Underline">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">in other words, </span>is not growing any faster this year than it did last year. It is essentially stagnant, unable to generate a sustained recovery<span class="Underline"> despite $3 trillion in spending and tax cuts</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> over the past three and a half years. </span><span class="Underline">This scenario will at best continue, and may</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> alternatively even </span><span class="Underline">worsen </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">in the coming months; and if not worsen this year, certainly so in 2013. This rapid slowing of the US economy in 2012 was predicted by this writer early last December 2011, in a general economic forecast for 2012-13 that appeared in the January 1 issue of Z magazine. Contrary to the 4th quarter 4% GDP trend, in December 2011 this writer contrarily predicted “the first quarter of 2012 will record a significant slowing of GDP growth” and “the US economy will weaken further in the second quarter, 2012”. </span>The US economy has been<span class="Underline"> essentially </span>stagnant for<span class="Underline"> at least the past </span>two years, bumping along<span class="Underline"> the bottom </span>at a sub-par 2.5% GDP growth rate. The economy needs to grow in excess of 2.5% for net job creation to occur<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Given the economy’s longer term 1.7% growth rate, </span>it is not surprising net job growth<span class="Underline"> the past three months </span>has averagedbarely 80,000 a month<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—i.e. well below the 125,000 or more needed just to absorb new entrants into the labor force. So </span>we are in fact losing jobs again<span class="Underline"> this year</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, 2012, </span>despite what the official unemployment rate says.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Readers should note this 1.7% sub-par GDP growth the past 18 months has occurred despite the $802 billion tax cut passed by Congress in December 2010, virtually all of which was tax cuts for businesses and higher income household investors. In fact, it was more than $802 billion if further tax cuts for small businesses over the past 18 months are also factored into the total. Perhaps </span><span class="Underline">as much as $900 billion in </span>pro-business/investor tax cuts have<span class="Underline"> been passed, which have </span>had minimal to zero impact on the economy and job creation<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. So much for that myth, and conservative-corporate ideology constantly pushed by politicians and the press, that ‘tax cuts create jobs’. Readers should keep that factual absence of any positive relationship between tax cuts and jobs and economy in mind, when more tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy are proposed by both parties once again as part of the year end deal coming immediately after the November elections. Expect both sides, Republicans and Democrats alike, to agree on reducing the top bracket tax rate on personal and corporate income both, from current 35% to at least 28% (the old Reagan years rate). 1st Quarter GDP: Temporary Growth Factors Disappear </span><span class="Underline">While the hype about economic recovery was in full swing last winter, this writer pointed out</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in various publications t</span><span class="Underline">hat the 4th quarter GDP numbers were based almost totally on one-off developments that would disappear by mid-year 2012. At least half of the 4th quarter’s 4% growth rate was due to business inventory spending,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> making up at year end for the collapse of the same in the preceding 3rd quarter. </span><span class="Underline">Auto sales driving consumer spending was also noted as a temporary effect</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, given they were based on deep discounting and temporary demand that would not continue. </span>Business spending that surged in the 4th quarter was<span class="Underline"> also identified as </span>temporary,<span class="Underline"> as it was driven by year end claiming of tax credits, while manufacturing export gains in late 2011 would soon dissipate</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, it was predicted, as the global economy and trade slowdown eventually reached the U.S. in 2012. The halving of GDP growth by the 1st quarter 2012 was due in part, as predicted, to the slowing of auto sales. The previously predicted slowing of business inventory spending occurred, while the 4th quarter’s business investing also disappeared as predicted. In addition to the dissipating temporary factors, new developments added to the 1st quarter’s GDP decline: </span>Consumer spending slowed, as escalating gasoline prices began once again<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (for a third year in a row) taking their toll on consumers and as auto sales growth began to show signs of weakening. </span>The global slowing of manufacturing also<span class="Underline"> finally </span>began to penetrate US economy<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> by 2012, </span>as US exports grew more slowly than imports and<span class="Underline"> thus </span>depressing GDP<span class="Underline"> still further</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Finally, </span>the 30 month long decline in government spending<span class="Underline">, especially at the state and local government level, </span>continued<span class="Underline"> unabated </span>into 2012<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In late April this writer predicted that the 2% first quarter 2012 GDP would continue to decline still further. In a piece in Truthout.org on May 8, it was predicted the 1st quarter GDP “decline will likely continue further in the months immediately ahead, to possibly as low as 1.5% the second quarter, April-June 2012.” (In a piece in Znet on May 6 it was predicted for the second quarter 2012 that “The growth rate could slow to possibly as low as 1.5%”). 2nd Quarter GDP’s Continuing Downtrend The same factors that have been driving the 4% GDP to 2% in the January-March 2012 period have driven it lower still, to the recent 1.5%. </span>In<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the most recent </span>2nd quarter 2012, both consumer and business spending showed<span class="Underline"> even </span>further weakening<span class="Underline">—while government spending continued to contract for the 33rd consecutive month and the contribution to GDP by exports fell further</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> as well. </span>Consumer spending on goods declined from<span class="Underline"> its </span>5.4%<span class="Underline"> rate in the 4th quarter </span>to only 0.7%<span class="Underline"> this past quarter</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Durable goods spending in particular fell off a cliff last quarter, as auto sales not only slowed dramatically, as in the 1st quarter, but now in the 2nd actually turned negative. But perhaps the most dramatic indicator is the fall off in retail sales in general. Retail sales April-June fell in each of the three months. That is the first time for a three consecutive month decline since the deep collapse of 2008</span><span class="Underline">! Even services consumption recorded its slowest and lowest growth in two years! What consumer spending did occur in the 2nd quarter was driven by sharply rising credit card debt as well as household auto and education debt, credit cards growing by 11.2% and auto-student loans by 8%.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> In other words, to the extent consumer spending is occurring at all it is not due to rising household real disposable income—which is actually falling—but due to households taking on more debt. So much for the mainstream argument that consumer spending is slowing because households are working off debt (i.e. so-called deleveraging). That may be true for the wealthiest 10% households with income growth from stocks and bonds, but not for the bottom 90%, i.e. the more than 100 million rest of us. But consumer spending increasingly dependent on credit cards and other borrowing portends poorly for further spending down the road. It is not sustainable and will result in yet a further slowing of consumer spending and consequently economic growth. Consumer spending is not the only major trouble spot in the 2nd quarter that promises to continue into the 3rd and beyond. Business spending also showed new signs of trouble in new places as well as the old last quarter. Business spending on plant expansion, which shows up as business ‘structures’ spending, collapsed last quarter from prior double digit levels in the 4th quarte—from 33.9% to only 0.9% in the last three months. That </span><span class="Underline">plummeting structures spending will eventually translate into a slowing of new job creation going forward as well. Businesses that don’t expand don’t add jobs. Slowing business spending was also evident in new orders placed for manufactured goods that turned negative</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> for each of the past three. Watch next for the other business spending sector, on equipment and software, soon to flattened out in the future as well. A third sector of the economy that contributed to growth in 2011, but has also reversed now as well, is exports. </span><span class="Underline">New orders for US exports have declined </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">the past two months in a row,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the first back to back fall since 2009. That confirms that </span><span class="Underline">any contribution of exports and manufacturing to GDP is now clearly over.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> It never really contributed that much in the first place, despite all the Obama administration hype in 2010-11 that manufacturing and more free trade would ‘lead the way’ to sustained US economic recovery. It was all hype to reward multinational technology and other companies—big contributors to Democratic election coffers—while diverting attention away from the obvious failures to generate sustained recovery after the three Obama ‘recovery programs’ introduced in 2009, 2010, and 2011. Not least there’s the continued poor performance of the government sector in the 2nd quarter. It has continued to decline every quarter since the 3rd quarter of 2009, or 33 consecutive months now. That spending decline at the state and local government level has been the case despite more than $300 billion in federal stimulus subsidies to the states since June 2009 and hundreds of billions more in unemployment insurance payments by the federal government to the states. Why state-local government spending has declined every quarter since mid-2009 despite the massive subsidies is an anomaly yet to be explained. Like corporations hoarding their tax cuts, and banks hoarding their bailouts, both refusing to use the money to lend and create jobs—perhaps the states and local governments also hoarded their subsidies. Perhaps that’s why the Obama administration quickly shifted its promise that its stimulus package would create jobs, to a message that it would, if not create, at least ‘save jobs’. In answer to the obvious further deteriorating in the 2nd quarter in both consumer, business, and government spending, the press and media in recent weeks have tried to grab at straws and hype a ‘recovery underway in the housing sector’. But this line has been based on the slimmest of evidence: the indicator that home builders’ new construction has risen. But the media hype in recent weeks regarding housing has conveniently ignored various other indicators recently showing continued housing sector stagnation: For example, new home sales declined by 8.4% in June, the largest fall since early 2011. Mortgage loan applications and new building permits also fell, while median home prices recorded a –3.2% decline compared to a year earlier. That amounts to nothing near a housing recovery. To the extent home building has risen, it has been largely limited to multi-family units—i.e. to apartment building. That’s not surprising, given the 12 million plus homeowners who have been foreclosed since the recession began and need some place to live. But housing sector indicators as a whole still show that sector languishing well below half of what it was pre-2007 and with little indication of any kind of sustained growth or recovery. As in the case of net job creation, without a housing recovery leading the way there is no sustained general US economic recovery</span><span class="Underline">. </span>In all<span class="Underline"> the 11 </span>prior recessions since 1947 in the U.S., state and local government spending increases, net job creation in the private sector equivalent to 350,000 jobs per month for six consecutive months, and housing sector recovery have all been necessary to ‘lead the way’ out of recession. But for the past four years none of the above has been the case. There have been no effective jobs program, housing-foreclosures solution program, or state-local government spending program<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. That tripartite failure is at the heart of the failed economic recovery of the Obama first term.</span>

**Only the plan solves – multiple warrants**
**Cooper 12** (Donna Cooper, Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress, former deputy mayor for policy for the city of Philadelphia, former secretary of policy and planning for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; Kristina Costa, Research Assistant in Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress; Keith Miller, intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress, student at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute; “Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council: How Better Planning and Financing Options Can Fix Our Infrastructure and Improve Economic Competitiveness,” Center for American Progress, September 2012, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Infrastructure forms the foundation of the U.S. economy.Without highways</span>, power grids, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">railroads, dams, levees, and water systems, businesses could not transport</span> their <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">goods</span>, homes would be without electricity or drinkable water, par- ents could not get their kids to school, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">would cease to be a</span> world <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">leader in productivity and innovation.</span> But despite our infrastructure’s clear indispensability, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">decades of negligence and underinvestment have allowed</span> much <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">of it to fall into a</span> shameful <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">state of disrepair. Inefficiencies in</span> our <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">infrastructure affect all aspects of</span> American <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">life. Commuters on our highways now lose more than $100 billion every year in time spent and fuel burned due to</span> ever-increasing <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">congestion</span> on their way to and from work.1 U.S. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ports are struggling to handle increased ship sizes and cargo volumes. Lock systems</span> on inland waterways <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are crumbling</span>, causing tens of thousands of hours of delays every year. And leaking pipes lose an estimated 7 billion gallons of clean drinking water every day. Together, these <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">failures</span> jeopardize public health, contribute to environmental degradation, and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">make</span> American <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">businesses less competitive, forcing them to pass additional costs on to consumers.</span> At the same time, our <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">close</span>st <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">competitors have dramatically stepped up</span> their <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">investment in infrastructure</span> and adopted ambitious plans for additional development. The United States fell to 24th place in overall infrastructure, down from ninth in 2008, according to a 2011 annual survey conducted by the World Economic Forum. What’s worse, under current levels of investment, this ranking will likely only continue to fall. A recent Center for American Progress report on America’s infrastructure funding gap estimated that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the federal government is underinvesting in infrastructure by approximately $48 billion per year</span>, assuming a goal of adequately maintaining existing infrastructure and preparing for projected economic and population growth. But our situation is not hopeless. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">By coupling increased investment with</span> a number of commonsense <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">reforms, the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">could</span> make great progress toward <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">bring</span>ing its <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">infrastructure up to modern standards</span>. The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">establishment of</span> both <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a national infrastructure bank</span> and a national infrastructure planning council <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">represents an innovative and promising way in which we could finance and plan infrastructure projects</span>. That is the subject of this report<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. By establishing a centralized federal lending authority in the form of an infrastructure bank, the United States could: • Increase public investment in infrastructure • Leverage billions in additional private investment • Streamline existing federal lending initiatives • Increase the share of federal money that flows to projects meeting rigorous cost-benefit criteria</span> With a relatively modest investment, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the</span> federal <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">government could enable</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">completion of</span> numerous <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">large-scale projects of critical economic importance throughout our country</span>, potentially <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">producing thousands of jobs</span> in the process. Forming a national infrastructure planning council would also help better coordinate federal investments in infrastructure. This would go a long way toward resolving the siloed decision-making process that currently prevents crucial project integration and encourages inefficient spending across government agencies, as each agency attempts to independently address single components of a complex, interdependent infrastructure system. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Better coordination would allow the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to</span> finally <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">develop a comprehensive national infrastructure plan</span> on par with those implemented by both industrialized and developing nations, while also encouraging the adoption of the best investment and planning practices at all levels. Congress and the Obama administration should be praised for taking a significant step toward better investment coordination and improved due diligence by expanding the Department of Transportation’s Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation program, included in the recently passed Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act. Increasing this program’s funding from $122 million in fiscal year 2012 (which began in October 2011) to a combined $1.7 billion for FY 2013 through FY 2014 will help it achieve a considerably greater impact. The program provides low-interest loans, loan guarantees, and lines of credit to public and private investors undertaking large-scale surface transporta- tion projects. Although the program’s limited surface-transportation-only focus and known funding horizon of only two years means it alone cannot shoulder the burden of America’s infrastructure needs, the designers of any future infrastruc- ture bank should look to this program as an example of how to successfully oper- ate a federal infrastructure lending initiative. This report will detail the need for both a national infrastructure bank and a planning council, explain how they each would work, and examine how they would address the specific failings of our current system of infrastructure investment. We will consider existing policy proposals for creating an infrastructure bank and will note which fac- ets of these plans still require significant attention from policymakers. Finally, we will put forward a number of suggestions for immediate action to lay the groundwork for a national infrastructure bank and an infrastructure planning council. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates simply <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cannot wait any longer</span> to address our crumbling infrastructure. If we take action now to better plan, finance, and coordinate critical investments in our national infrastructure, we can ensure continued prosperity for future generations, while immediately helping the American economy get back on its feet. The need for an infrastructure bank and planning council <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The overwhelming scale of the challenges facing U.S. infrastructure cannot be adequately addressed by individual state and local efforts or piecemeal federal support.</span> Our myriad overlapping and competing funding streams, programs, and initiatives have repeatedly proven to be inadequate, and the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">need for central entities to plan, coordinate, and finance projects of national importance could not be more apparent</span>. In this section, we examine <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the four greatest failings of our current infrastructure investment system</span> and illustrate their detrimental effect on the U.S. economy: • <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Failure to provide sufficient public funds</span> • Failure to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">attract private investment</span> • Failure <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to coordinate investments</span> • Failure <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to allocate funds efficiently</span> Let’s examine each of these failures in turn. Failure to provide sufficient public funds Despite a large number of independent funding streams and initiatives for infrastructure development already in the federal government, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the United States is failing—by a large margin—to adequately invest in its infrastructure</span>. These existing funding streams include multiple federal loan programs, a far greater number of grant oppor- tunities, and many additional layers of programs at the state and local level. A recent Center for American Progress report estimated that bringing America’s infrastruc- ture into a state of good repair and adequately preparing it for projected growth would require the federal government to invest at least an additional $48 billion per year on top of current infrastructure spending levels, which in FY 2010 totaled roughly $92 billion in grants, credit subsidies, and tax expenditures.5 Even then, this spending could only be considered sufficient if it triggered $11 billion annually in additional state spending and was accompanied by a $10 billion increase in annual federal loan authority. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">simply not investing enough to repair and maintain our most critical infrastructure, let alone expand and upgrade it to enable future economic growth.</span> This lack of sufficient funding and political will means we are not only underfunding local water-treatment systems and roadway investments but also perpetually neglect- ing large-scale regional projects. Such <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cross-state “megaprojects” have the potential to produce massive economic returns but frequently go unfunded or unconsidered because they are simply too large for states, localities, or limited federal programs to finance</span>. While <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation program</span> and similar initiatives may seek to support large-scale undertakings, it simply <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">does not have the funds to provide the level of capital required for such megaprojects and is generally limited to funding projects that fall into a specific sector—such as surface transportation—instead of integrated, cross-sector proposals.</span> This problem is evident, for example, in ongoing efforts to replace the functionally obsolete Brent Spence Bridge that connects Cincinnati, Ohio, with Covington, Kentucky, carrying traffic from two large interstate highways across the Ohio River. Despite its critical importance to regional commerce and the economic vitality of both cities, project planners have not been able to find a funding source for the $2.4 billion needed to begin work.6 Even with combinations of grants, municipal bonds, and private investment, such projects often require an addi- tional source of funding to make it out of the concept stage.7 Currently this source of funding does not exist, which means the very projects that hold the greatest potential to spur lasting economic growth are the most frequently abandoned. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">These problems are further compounded by a congressional appropriations pro- cess that allocates some infrastructure funds on a year-to-year basis and legislators who are sometimes reluctant to commit resources over the longer time frames required to complete most infrastructure projects</span>. The recently passed Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act surface-transportation bill provides program allocations for only two years—well short of the five-year timeframe of most of its predecessors. This leaves states, localities, and private investors strug- gling to make long-term plans under the uncertainty of future federal support. Additionally, this annual appropriations process can encourage state and local policymakers to delay necessary projects in the hope of securing federal funding <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The United States is simply not investing enough to repair and maintain our most critical infrastructure, let alone expand and upgrade it to enable future economic growth. in the next election cycle, both delaying benefits and potentially increasing costs, as required repairs become more significant</span>.8 Failure to attract private investment Private investors can be valuable and innovative partners in maintaining and modernizing critical infrastructure. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Our current system of financing</span>, however, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has often failed in its attempts to forge viable partnerships with private investors.</span> While the traditional American method of attracting private capital by <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">offer- ing tax-exempt municipal bonds</span> has been successful in many instances and will remain a valuable tool for infrastructure investment, it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">often leaves many large potential investors sitting on the sidelines</span>. The reason: These <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">groups are either already exempt</span> from taxes, as in the case of pension funds, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or have no state tax liability to begin wit</span>h, as is the case with international investors. These character- istics have historically made tax-exempt bonds far less attractive to these groups, resulting in extremely limited purchases. In the wake of the Great Recession of 2007–2009, however, many of these institu- tional investors now say they are eager to diversify their portfolios by investing in infrastructure. The California Public Employees’ Retirement System, for example, has already allotted $4 billion to be invested in U.S. infrastructure projects over the next three years. The success of so-called Build America Bonds has demonstrated that alternatives to traditional municipal bonds can have success in attracting pension funds and inter- national investors. The program, initiated in 2009, issued an estimated $117 billion in taxable state and local bonds for which the federal government directly subsidized a portion of the interest costs.10 This made the bonds significantly more attractive to private investors, eliminating inefficiencies in the system of federal bond subsidiza- tion that cost the federal government billions of dollars every year.11 Unfortunately, the program was allowed to expire in 2010 and has not yet been renewed. Public-private partnerships offer shareholders a direct stake in projects, and the potential for greater returns are also extremely attractive to these types of private investors. Unfortunately, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">states and the federal government have not yet fully taken advantage of these new types of investment vehicles</span>. While 25 states have passed legislation expressly aimed at encouraging public-private partnerships, relatively few projects have actually been launched. This is largely because <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">our infrastructure financing system lacks the experience and tools to quickly identify viable investment opportunities and match private investors with public partners. Without improved coordination, transparency, and financial assistance, billions of dollars more in potential investment may go unrealized despite the existence of numerous willing investors. In contrast, Europe has a fully functioning infrastructure finance program up and running</span>. (see box) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">While the United States struggles to develop a national infrastructure investment plan, the European Union has been operating a transnational, publically chartered infrastructure bank for longer than half a century</span>. Founded in 1957, the European Investment Bank funds criti- cal projects throughout Europe and in developing nations worldwide to the tune of tens of billions of dollars every year. The bank is capitalized by funds from its 27 member states but also raises a large portion of its capital from issuing bonds. These funds are used to offer low-interest, long-term loans to both public and private entities, as well as loan guarantees and technical assistance. The bank is able to offer such attractive rates because it is large, nonprofit, has a AAA credit rating, and is fully backed by member governments. In 2010 the bank loaned out more than $100 billion, the vast majority of which (87.5 percent) went to projects in EU countries. This included $5 billion in high-speed rail projects; $3 billion in road and bridge im- provements; $12 billion in sustainable urban transit; and $134 million in inland waterway improvements.15 Overall, the bank financed 460 “large projects” in 72 countries in 2010 alone, and this was all on top of the investments made independently by individual member states.16 The European Investment Bank should serve as both a useful example for policymakers and as a harsh reminder of how the United States is continuing to fall further behind our international competition. Any U.S. infrastructure bank must learn from the successes and failures of its international predecessors and must do so quickly if we are to keep pace in the decades ahead. * This report uses 2010 data to allow for easy comparison between European Investment Bank investment levels and federal U.S. loan authorities for infrastructure. (see Figure 1) Lessons from the European Investment Bank Failure to coordinate investments The uncoordinated and siloed fashion in which federal dollars are allocated also hampers efforts to modernize U.S. infrastructure. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Despite the interdependence of America’s electricity, water, transport, and telecommunications networks, the vast majority of federal funds are dispersed by sector-specific programs that do not take into consideration the impact of their initiatives on other infrastructure systems. The Department of Transportation</span>, for example, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">does not fully consider how increased investment in passenger or freight railways might alleviate the need for additional road and highway expenditures, and does not coordinate the landside port improvements it funds with Army Corps of Engineers waterside invest- ments at the very same ports. Indeed, according to a recent Center for American Progress analysis, integrated transportation spending accounts for only about 2 percent of the Department of Transportation’s investments—a distressing figure for those concerned with maximizing efficiency and minimizing costs.17 Exacerbating this problem is the inherently reactive nature of the many federal agencies responsible for various aspects of our nation’s infrastructure. Nearly all of the projects that agencies consider are brought to them by localities, states, or Congress. </span>They are almost never asked to propose projects based on their own analysis of national needs or to take on the role of integrating multiple small-scale proposals. Instead, they are only given the responsibility of evaluating individual pitches from policymakers primarily concerned with their own limited constitu- encies. Consequently, the United States has no national goods movement, water, or energy plans to match those of other rapidly developing nations, and our eco- nomic competitiveness and prospects for growth are suffering as a result. Failure to allocate funds efficiently Despite inadequate funding levels and limited program coordination, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the United States still allocates tens of billions of dollars annually to a multitude of projects across the nation. Such investment could go further toward upgrading America’s infrastructure if it were spent more efficiently. The vast majority of funds for infrastructure projects in the United States are not disbursed on the basis of a rigorous comparison of projects’ economic costs and benefits. Instead, they are allocated by formula or annual congressional appro- priations that place more emphasis on geographic political considerations than on return on investment. For decades, highway funding has been distributed by formulas that heavily weigh vehicle miles of road over the actual need for repair or extension. </span>As a result, Alabama has in the past received more funds than Massachusetts, Florida more than New York, and Georgia more than Michigan.18 This inefficient process is only getting worse, as the recently passed surface trans- portation bill actually increased the percentage of funds apportioned by formula from 83 percent to 92.6 percent. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Highway spending, however, is not the only area where money is allocated in this fashion. According to the Congressional Research Service, the nation’s 20 busiest ports handle 80 percent of arriving oceangoing ships but account for less than 40 percent of federal Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund expenditures</span>.20 In the alloca- tion of funds for drinking water projects, millions of dollars are allotted every year just to ensure that every state receives at least 1 percent of the funds available.21 Such processes virtually ensure a suboptimal distribution of investment, as money is directed according to arbitrary legal requirements not potential impact. America’s present system of infrastructure financing is failing on multiple fronts and falling well short of providing the levels of coordinated and expertly directed investment required to rebuild and modernize our aging bridges, electrical grids, and highways. It is clear that if the status quo is maintained, the United States will only continue to fall further behind its neighbors and competitors—with signifi- cant and damaging repercussions for the future health of the U.S. economy. How would an infrastructure bank and planning council help<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">? The establishment of a national infrastructure bank and national planning council would go a long way toward making the existing system of infrastructure financing more rational, efficient, and transparent. In this section, we lay out the potential ben- efits offered by both institutions and illustrate how they can immediately help remedy the failures of the status quo. Americans deserve an infrastructure network befitting the largest and most innovative economy in the world, and creating a national infra- structure bank and national planning council will do much to achieve that goal.</span> National infrastructure <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">bank A national infrastructure bank would help spur more infrastructure investment by creating a strong federal lending authority capable of financing and coordinating high-value infrastructure investments throughout the country. It could provide low-interest loans and loan guarantees to state, local, and private investors, and help stakeholders connect available capital with financially viable projects and willing partners. Because all of the funds distributed by the bank would be paid back with interest by borrowers following the completion of their projects, the costs to the federal government following the initial capitalization of the bank would be remarkably low.Every federal dollar put into the bank would be able to achieve an impact well beyond its face value by supporting project after project as long as the bank continued operation</span>. Despite its low costs, however, a national infrastructure bank could put a sub- stantial dent in the infrastructure funding gap by attracting billions of dollars in additional public and private investment. By providing the final financial piece that many large projects require to get off the ground, federal infrastructure loans and loan guarantees could enable hundreds of otherwise-abandoned projects to move forward. An infrastructure bank proposal put forward by Sens. John Kerry (D-MA), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Mark Warner (D-VA), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) estimates that an initial $10 billion endowment could provide up to $160 billion in financial assistance over the next decade, pulling in between $320 billion and $640 billion in additional nonfederal spending.22 Such levels of investment would pour billions of dollars into some of the economic sectors hit worst by the recession, among them the construction industry and heavy manu- facturing, and could help put thousands of unemployed Americans back to work on projects with guaranteed economic and social returns. An infrastructure bank could be particularly effective at leveraging additional investment because it would be able to make such investment more attractive to private investors. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A federal bank could help inexperienced states and localities develop attractive public-private partnerships and could connect willing private partners with these investment opportunities. Providing a single “home” for such project proposals would eliminate the need for investors to make redundant pitches to multiple federal, state, and local agencies, making the entire process of linking private capital with critical infrastructure projects both more efficient and user-friendly. </span>Federal oversight and guidance could also perform the important task of promoting models that protect wages and collective bargaining rights. For all of these reasons, both the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations see significant ben- efits for their members should a national infrastructure bank be created, and both have jointly come out in strong support of establishing such a bank.23 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">An infrastructure bank would also help overcome the many problems associated with the annual appropriations process and could provide the types of financial assistance that are most useful for infrastructure projects. By providing long-term loans and loan guarantees, the new bank would make year-to-year federal support significantly more predictable.</span> Short-line railroad owners could hire employees, and clean energy operations could plan for expansion without being constrained by the uncertainty of not knowing whether the critical federal loan programs that support them will exist in a year’s time. Additionally, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by building delayed-repayment mechanisms into these loans, many crucial projects could be undertaken even if they may take time to begin generating sufficient user fees or savings to begin repayment.</span> Public and private investors alike frequently find it difficult to acquire financing of this kind, but by filling this void, a national infrastructure bank could further enable billions of dollars in investment. Furthermore, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">introducing a centralized federal lending authority could help dra- matically improve coordination between federal agencies and the multiple lending</span> Both the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations see significant benefits for their members should a national infrastructure bank be created. initiatives they oversee. A recent Center for American Progress analysis estimated that in FY 2010, just under $124 billion in total federal lending authority for infrastructure projects was spread out over six different programs in three different departments. (see Figure 1) It would likely be more efficient for an infrastruc- ture bank to assimilate these existing federal loan schemes. Such <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">changes would eliminate redundancies, build capacity to plan intermodal projects, and further improve due diligence in project selection. </span> Energy is a major cost driver when it comes to getting water to the tap and treating wastewater, but our current system does not adequately account for energy needs when planning water-system improvements. A federal lending authority, however, could allow for drinking and clean water infrastructure investments to be coordinated with the expansion of electrical capacity required to support them. Or it could arrange for channel deepening at ports to be planned alongside the bridge replacements required to ensure new and larger freight vessels can access harbors. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bank experts would be able to actively seek out opportunities for cross-state and cross-sector coop- eration, and encourage policymakers and private investors to undertake the kinds of visionary and integrated projects that are the most beneficial to economic growth. Finally, more efficiency-driven project selection could possibly deliver the greatest gains. An independent bank with a professional staff could rank project proposals by expected economic and social returns, and allot funds accordingly. They would not have to be constrained by outmoded formulas or arbitrary allocation processes, and could instead ensure that each dollar lent out achieves the greatest possible impact for the greatest number of people. With funding for projects of all kinds becoming increasingly difficult to come by and with infrastructure needs growing daily, we cannot afford to continue being inefficient with our spending. A national infrastruc- ture bank could help reduce such waste, while making the most of limited resources to effectively promote valuable economic, social, and environmental goals</span>. The creation of a national infrastructure bank would thus help increase public investment, attract private investment, improve investment coordination, and ensure investment efficiency. As the United States becomes more integrated into an increasingly competitive global economy, we have no choice but to pursue these goals, and we must do so with the greatest possible urgency. Indeed, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the idea of an infrastructure bank is not new to policymakers.</span> (see box on following page) National infrastructure planning council While structuring financing packages for vital projects is among the most impor- tant roles the federal government plays in infrastructure investment, its activities extend well beyond this role and into research, issuing regulations, awarding grants, environmental protection, and even directly operating and maintaining locks, dams, bridges, and utilities throughout our country. To coordinate all of these activities and maximize the efficiency of federal infrastructure programs, we need a national infrastructure planning council. Such a council would unite the disparate federal initiatives currently attempting to individually tackle our national infrastructure crisis, thereby making the jobs of federal agencies easier and dra- matically improving program effectiveness. Such a council would help federal agencies establish a common understanding of the scope and breadth of the federal government’s investment in our nation’s infra- structure. By sharing current and pending project inventories, synergistic opportuni- ties can more easily be identified and acted upon. Investments in locks and dams on The idea of establishing infrastructure banks to help finance needed investment is not new to the United States. As of 2010, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">32 states and Puerto Rico already had state infrastructure banks in operation, using them to enter into more than 700 loan agreements worth $6.5 billion.</span>24 A handful of banks were established in the 1990s as part of a limited federal pilot program, which was expanded in 2005 to include all states. Since then, most state infrastructure banks have been capital- ized using a combination of federal and state funds, although a few have used only state monies to avoid certain federal regulations. While these banks have helped finance hundreds of projects, their results have been somewhat mixed. Almost the entirety of the $6.5 billion allotted in loans comes from only eight states. South Caro- lina—one of the first participants in the bank pilot program and which raises significant additional funds by allowing its bank to sell bonds—is alone responsible for more than $3 billion of that invest- ment. Many states have barely made use of their banks at all.25 Just as importantly, almost all of these banks provide funding only for surface-transportation projects, ignoring other critical types of infrastructure. Due to their relatively small size, they also do not have the funds or expertise necessary to handle regional megaprojects and generally avoid complex multimodal undertakings.26 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">State infrastructure banks will play an important role in meeting future infrastructure needs, but they would be more effective work- ing alongside an equivalent federal institution. Such a national bank would be capable of taking on projects that state banks cannot and providing the expertise, coordination, and leadership currently lack- ing in our infrastructure-investment system. A brief history of state infrastructure banks inland waterways could be coordinated with landside improvements at the seaports they service, while the impact of the information technology revolution on commut- ing patterns could be taken into consideration when allotting highway funding. A national infrastructure council should also be tasked with collecting and dis- seminating best practices pertaining to project selection, preventative mainte- nance, and construction cost reduction. It would also promote the use of common objective measures to evaluate the progress of ongoing and completed infrastruc- ture projects.</span> The council would work to identify opportunities for innovation and help develop new mechanisms for leveraging private investment. A national infrastructure council would also work in close coordination with a national infra- structure bank, as the council could coordinate federal activities with nonfederal and private initiatives to ensure that the bank did not unnecessarily duplicate existing federal expert capacity. With all relevant authorities sitting at a single table, we can finally develop and pursue coordinated approaches to overarching national problems such as road congestion and electrical grid reliability. A national infrastructure planning coun- cil would help the United States begin to close the gap between our level of invest- ment and that of our international competitors—whose levels of infrastructure investment have surpassed that of the United States for years—and would help spur economic growth in both the short term and the long term. What might a national infrastructure bank look like? Multiple serious proposals for a national infrastructure bank have been put forward at the Congressional level in just the past five years, beginning with the bipartisan Dodd-Hagel National Infrastructure Bank Act of 2007.27 More recent proposals include the 2011 Building and Upgrading Infrastructure for Long-Term Development, or BUILD Act, sponsored by Sens. Kerry, Hutchison, Warner, and Graham, and the National Infrastructure Development Bank Act, sponsored by Rep. DeLauro (D-CT). The BUILD Act also served as the basis for infrastructure bank proposals recently put forward by the Obama administration, including those found in the proposed American Jobs Act of 2011 and the president’s pro- posed 2013 federal budget.28 These various proposals share many common elements but also differ on several key institutional attributes. In this section we consider which features are almost certain to be incorporated into any future infrastructure bank, as well as compo- nents which still require significant attention from policymakers to ensure any proposed institution is as efficient and effective as possible. The fundamentals of an infrastructure bank: Where most plans agree Most infrastructure bank proposals envision a wholly government-owned cor- poration led by a board selected by the president and subject to some form of congressional approval. Although the board’s size and composition vary among plans, all plans agree that rules must be put in place to ensure the board is not dominated by a single party’s partisan appointees and that its members have sufficient and relevant expertise in infrastructure development and financing. An important balance will also have to be struck between ensuring adequate oversight of the bank and enabling it to operate independent of political pressure, lest its project-selection process simply become another extension of existing, politically motivated allocation methods. The majority of proposals permit an infrastructure bank to offer long-term loans and loan guarantees of up to about 35 years, with the potential for flexible repayment schedules that would allow investors the time required to complete large-scale projects and begin recouping their costs via user fees, tolls, or other revenue sources. Entities eligible to receive financing would include state and local governments, private investors, or public-private partnerships. Eligible project areas vary somewhat between the plans but would almost certainly include energy, transportation, and water projects, possibly alongside environ- mental and telecommunications undertakings. A successful example of such lending practices can be seen in the aforementioned Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation program. Over the past 14 years, this program has used $9.2 billion in federal funding to provide attractive long-term loans, loan guarantees, and lines of credit that have leveraged more than $36.4 billion in private and public capital, helping undertake 27 major trans- portation projects across the nation.29 Among the reasons the program has been so successful is its ability to offer loans of up to 35 years and the flexibility of its repayment schedule. Recipients of this program’s loans can wait up to five years after substantial project completion to begin paying back their loans so as to allow time for facility construction and ramp-up.30 The designers of an infrastructure bank would be wise to use these elements of the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation program as a model. To ensure that a future infrastructure bank accomplishes its goal of attracting significant additional nonfederal and private investment, a cap on the percentage of a project’s financing which can be covered by loans from the bank may also be required. The bipartisan BUILD Act proposal—as well as the most recent admin- istration proposals—set this cap at 50 percent. This would ensure that the federal government never foots the majority of the bill for any project and maximizes the commitments of its public and private partners. Importantly, most existing plans also avoid establishing specific criteria for project selection and leave this process up to the bank’s board. They do, however, emphasize that project selection should take into account all economic, social, and environ- mental costs. The board should also prioritize projects that lead to economic growth and job creation or are of particular national or regional importance. If an infrastruc- ture bank is properly structured and appropriate selection criteria are adopted, then it could not only help construct new and valuable national assets but also create thousands of jobs and promote environmentally sustainable development. Over the past 14 years, the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation program has helped undertake 27 major transportation projects across the nation An infrastructure bank proposal from Sens. John Rockefeller (D-WV) and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) includes an even greater emphasis on breaking down modal silos in the Department of Transportation. The Rockefeller-Lautenberg proposal also includes a requirement for an infrastructure bank to consider the long-term fiscal and competitiveness impacts of their decision making. Some experts advo- cate including such proposals from the Democratic infrastructure bank bill in the larger bipartisan BUILD Act.31 Variability in bank plans: Important features still to be considered There is a great deal of consensus about what should be included in the creation of an infrastructure bank. But there also is disagreement about certain components. Among the first features of any potential infrastructure bank that remain open for consideration is whether or not a floor should be placed on the size of projects eligible for financing. The proposed BUILD Act and the president’s 2013 federal budget both mandate that estimated project costs be at least $100 million—or, in the BUILD Act, $25 million if the project is in a rural area—in order to receive bank support. The goals of such provisions include ensuring only large projects with substantial returns are financed and keeping bank funds away from smaller projects that could be capable of raising sufficient capital on their own. Such limits, however, may also make it more difficult for the bank to take on the duties of smaller federal lending initiatives such as the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing loan program or the Department of Energy’s 1703 and now-defunct 1705 loan programs. These programs support valuable investment in regional rail revitalization and clean energy technologies but generally make relatively small loans to individual companies or local governments. If cost floors exist, policymakers will have to carefully weigh the benefits of streamlining federal investment in infrastructure by assimilating such programs against the costs of cutting support for smaller but still valuable projects. Second, architects of any future bank will have to determine how administrative costs will be covered. These year-to-year costs could simply be taken from the funds used to initially capitalize the bank, although this would diminish its lend- ing authority over time. Yearly congressional appropriations could also be used, but this would then sacrifice the self-sustaining nature of the bank. To circumvent these problems, the BUILD Act proposed allowing the bank to charge fees—such as application and transaction fees—or make interest rate adjustments to ensure a balanced bottom line. This would ensure the fiscal independence of the bank and avoid depleting its loanable funds, but it could make borrowing from the bank slightly less attractive. Regardless of the solution chosen, however, such costs will have to be planned for if the bank is to prove sustainable in the long term. The bank’s ability to increase its pool of loanable funds by issuing bonds or borrowing on global capital markets is also of great importance. The DeLauro proposal includes provisions allowing the bank to do both with the goal of max- imizing the amount of money the bank would have on hand to support critical investment. Some state infrastructure banks employ similar practices—includ- ing those in Florida and South Carolina—as does the European Investment Bank (described in the box above). But this practice requires attaching higher interest rates to loans issued by the bank since it must subsequently raise more funds to pay back bond buyers.32 Consequently, policymakers will have to evalu- ate whether the benefits of such debt issuance outweigh the potential for higher rates that could ward off borrowers. Finally, the size of the bank’s initial capitalization and whether it will be a per- manent institution are both critical and undecided issues. A permanent institu- tion could help ensure infrastructure investment does not again fall so far below required levels as it has in recent years and would help spur economic growth for decades instead of only in the near term. And if the bank is appropriately struc- tured and fees set at a sufficient rate, then it could become an entirely self-sus- taining entity that could operate for decades with virtually no need for additional federal funding. The BUILD Act calls for a permanent bank to be established and capitalized with $10 billion. The DeLauro proposal, in contrast, calls for a tem- porary bank—to exist for only 15 years—but which would be capitalized with $5 billion annually from FY 2012 through FY 2016. While these are still important features to be decided, there are a number of steps that can be taken to spur the establishment of a national infrastructure bank, as the next section explains. Getting started Neither a national infrastructure bank nor a national infrastructure plan will be created overnight. But there are a number of actions that can be undertaken imme- diately to move the United States in the right direction. In this section, we will detail the steps that should be taken by policymakers right now to help get these ideas off the ground and help get America’s infrastructure working again. Specifically: • Creating the national infrastructure planning council • Establishing a federal infrastructure bundling entity • Expanding and better utilizing existing federal loan programs in the short term Let’s look at each step in turn. Creating the national infrastructure planning council <span style="text-decoration: none;">We should immediately create a federal interagency planning council to ensure we develop a coordinated and comprehensive approach to national infrastructure investment as quickly as possible. The Center for American Progress recommends that the council include, at a minimum, the secretaries or their designees of the following departments, commissioners of the following agencies, and the direc- tors of the following federal offices: • Department of Agriculture, Office Rural Development • Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service • Department of Defense, Army Corps of Engineers • Department of Energy, Office of Electricity Delivery and Reliability • Department of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation • Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration • Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration • Department of Transportation, Federal Railroad Administration • Department of Transportation, Federal Transit Administration 20 Center for American Progress | Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council • Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration • Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water • Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Wastewater Management • Federal Communication Commission • Federal Emergency Management Agency • Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Leadership will be critical to the council’s success. The president should select a knowledgeable and trusted neutral party to lead the council—someone who has experience in both infrastructure investment and interagency coordination. With such a council in place operating with the strong support of the executive branch, departments will be able to have a fuller understanding of each agency’s investments in the nation’s infrastructure and will be better able to identify and take advantage of opportunities for interagency cooperation.</span> This will help ensure the federal government makes the most efficient use of its limited resources and is able to strategically confront the challenges ahead. Establishing a federal infrastructure bundling entity Given existing partisan gridlock in Congress and lawmakers’ hesitance to under- take large new projects, it may take some time to establish a national infrastructure bank. But in the meantime we can move toward establishing a bank while also yielding immediate benefits by creating a federal infrastructure bundling entity. This body—which could be thought of as phase one of a national infrastructure bank—would provide intermediary services between public infrastructure projects and willing private investors but would not distribute loans or loan guarantees. It would identify large financeable projects and prepare them for pairing with interested partners, filling a critical void that is presently preventing millions of potential invest- ment dollars from reaching critical projects due to a lack of viable investment options. This bundling entity would be similar in function to the recently announced Chicago Infrastructure Trust but would operate on a national scale and concen- trate on larger-scale and more complex projects. The estimated $1.7 billion in investment commitments the Chicago Infrastructure Trust already expects from investors such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citibank, Inc. demonstrates that a national bundling entity could produce immediate benefits.33 To ensure effectiveness, an infrastructure bundling entity should: • Be able to enter into contracts with experts in infrastructure finance, who can work directly with project sponsors • Be able to solicit projects for review and to work with federal agencies to explore creative options for bundling projects such that they may tap public loan pro- grams, as well as private investors • Be required to seek out large-scale, financeable projects in every region of the nation Creating an infrastructure bundling entity would by no means obviate the need for a full-strength infrastructure bank with lending authority, and it would not be able to leverage nearly as much investment. But a bundling entity would produce immediate benefits and help lawmakers recognize the beneficial role a full-fledged bank could provide. CAP recommends that Congress take action to create this entity as soon as possible and appropriate $10 million to fund its operation. Expanding and better utilizing existing federal loan programs in the short term While getting a national infrastructure bank off the ground may take time, there are still hundreds of vital projects throughout the country that need pub- lic debt financing. The recent allocation of $1.7 billion to the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation program over the next two years in the new surface transportation bill is certainly a significant step in the right direction but is insufficient on its own to meet national demand. As a result, CAP recommends restoring the Department of Energy’s 1705 loan program, which invested $25 billion mostly in clean energy projects over two years before expiring in 2011.34 The program should be extended for another 10 years and enabled to support $4 billion in lending authority. This could mobilize up to $40 billion in additional investment, a CAP analysis found.35 Additionally, other underutilized loan programs should be encouraged to stream- line their application and awards processes and utilize a greater percentage of their lending authority to put the highest rate of available funds to work. Of the nearly $124 billion available in FY 2010 for federal loans, loan guarantees, and lines of credit, a recent CAP analysis found that only approximately $44 billion was actu- ally disbursed.36 One particular example of such underutilization can be seen in 22 Center for American Progress | Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing program, which has only allocated a total of $1.3 billion in loans since its lending authority was extended to $35 billion in 2005.37 Certainly, accountability and good judgment in the allocation process must be maintained. In any given year it may not be feasible or responsible to disburse the entirety of the funds legally available. But there is significant room for improve- ment, and our existing system of infrastructure investment is far from tapping its full potential. <span style="text-decoration: none;">By expanding and better utilizing existing federal loan programs, at least some progress can be made in repairing and modernizing America’s infra- structure before a national infrastructure bank is established.</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> Conclusion For decades the United States has categorically underinvested in its infrastructure, and it should come as no surprise that the consequences of this negligence are finally coming home to roost. Locks and dams on inland waterways are falling apart. Commuters and businesses alike are losing billions of dollars on congested highways</span>. And the nation’s electrical grids and drinking water systems are aging to the point of failure. Meanwhile, our competitors in the global economy have only ramped up infra- structure investment and adopted ambitious national plans and targets. If the United States is to remain internationally competitive, and our economy is to return to its previous growth rates, then we have no choice but to repair and mod- ernize our creaking infrastructure. Establishing a national infrastructure bank and planning council could immediately help accomplish these goals. To be sure, some commentators—including the Congressional Budget Office, in a recent report—express concerns that there may not be enough suitable projects for an infrastructure bank to finance, particularly in the realm of surface transportation. The same report also notes that surface transportation support through an infra- structure bank may ultimately be duplicative of existing federal loan and loan guar- antee programs.38 But as we have established in this report, an infrastructure bank could have an enormous impact in planning and financing the kinds of large-scale, multimodal projects that create jobs and increase our economic competitiveness, but which struggle to attract federal funding or leverage sufficient private funds. Rather than focusing solely on surface transportation—long a priority in con- gressional appropriations—a national infrastructure bank would ideally be able to finance complex investments that integrate transportation systems and enable our ports, rails, roads, and waterways to operate more efficiently. Moreover, such investments would leverage productivity gains throughout the economy by better connecting improvements in related infrastructure sectors—energy and water infrastructure, for instance. While the Congressional Budget Office report expresses concern that a sufficient pipeline of such projects may not exist in the short term, Robert Puentes of the Brookings Metropolitan Policy Program respectfully disagrees. In 2011 Brookings “challenged public and private leaders to send us their ideas for innovative, trans- formative investments. And the response was tremendous,” Puentes writes in The New Republic.39 He points out, rightly, that not every project would make sense for financing through a national infrastructure bank, but creating a national bank sends a clear signal to the private sector and the rest of the world that the United States is making bigger, smarter choices about infrastructure. A national infrastructure bank is the missing link needed to connect private capital to the kinds of infrastructure megaprojects most needed to boost economic activity and competitiveness. Working in concert, a national infrastructure bank and planning council would help increase and coordinate public investment and ensure that federal dollars go only to deserving projects with substantial potential returns. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">By helping bridge the gap between private investors and critical infrastructure projects, these institutions could also attract billions of dollars in additional investments and help get promising but complex projects off the drawing board</span>. It is time to stop wasting taxpayer dollars on a system characterized by inefficient formulas and disconnected decision making. It is time to finally create institutions capable of providing Americans with the infra- structure they need to compete, create jobs, and innovate<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. Establishing a national infrastructure bank</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">and national infrastructure planning council</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">makes economic sense and offers taxpayers the opportunity to multiply a relatively modest investment into massive and meaningful gains nationwide. Only by investing today can we hope to improve our prospects for tomorrow, and only by establishing such institutions can we ensure that our investment achieves its maximum potential. The stakes are simply too high to accept the status quo, and it is past time for us to stop neglecting the very foundation of our economy.</span>


Slow growth breaks down cooperation and diplomacy
**Khalilzad 11** — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2011 (“The Economy and National Security,” //National Review//, February 8th, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024, Accessed 02-08-2011)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Today, </span>economic<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and fiscal </span>trends pose the most severe<span class="TitleChar"> long-term </span>threat to the U<span class="TitleChar">nited </span>S<span class="TitleChar">tates’ </span>position as global leader<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="TitleChar">While the United States suffers from</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> fiscal imbalances and </span>//low economic growth//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span><span class="TitleChar">the economies of </span>//rival powers//<span class="TitleChar"> are developing rapidly</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span><span class="TitleChar">continuation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of these two trends </span>could lead to a //shift from American primacy toward a multi-polar global system//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>leading<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in turn </span>to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> increased </span>//geopolitical rivalry//<span class="TitleChar">and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> even </span>war among the great powers<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The current recession is the result of a deep financial crisis, not a mere fluctuation in the business cycle. Recovery is likely to be protracted. The crisis was preceded by the buildup over two decades of enormous amounts of debt throughout the U.S. economy — ultimately totaling almost 350 percent of GDP — and the development of credit-fueled asset bubbles, particularly in the housing sector. When the bubbles burst, huge amounts of wealth were destroyed, and unemployment rose to over 10 percent. The decline of tax revenues and massive countercyclical spending put the U.S. government on an unsustainable fiscal path. Publicly held national debt rose from 38 to over 60 percent of GDP in three years. </span>Without faster economic growth<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and actions to reduce deficits, publicly held national debt is projected to reach dangerous proportions. If </span><span class="TitleChar">interest rates</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> were to rise significantly, annual interest payments — which already are larger than the defense budget — </span><span class="TitleChar">would </span>//crowd out other spending//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or require substantial tax increases that would undercut economic growth. Even worse, if unanticipated events trigger what economists call a “sudden stop” in credit markets for U.S. debt, the United States would be unable to roll over its outstanding obligations, precipitating a sovereign-debt crisis that would almost certainly compel a radical retrenchment of the United States internationally. Such scenarios would reshape the international order. </span><span class="TitleChar">It was the economic devastation of Britain and France</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> during World War II, as well as the rise of other powers, </span><span class="TitleChar">that led both countries to </span>//relinquish their empires//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In the late 1960s, British leaders concluded that they lacked the economic capacity to maintain a presence “east of Suez.” Soviet economic weakness, which crystallized under Gorbachev, contributed to their decisions to withdraw from Afghanistan, abandon Communist regimes in Eastern Europe, and allow the Soviet Union to fragment. If the U.S. debt problem goes critical, </span>theU<span class="Box">nited </span>S<span class="Box">tates </span>would<span class="Box"> be compelled to </span>retrench<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, reducing its military spending and </span>//shedding international commitments//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth. Even though countries such as China, India, and Brazil have profound political, social, demographic, and economic problems, their economies are growing faster than ours, and this could alter the global distribution of power. These trends could in the long term produce a multi-polar world. </span>//If U.S. policymakers fail to act//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and other powers continue to grow, it is not a question of whether but when a new international order will emerge. </span><span class="TitleChar">The </span>closing<span class="TitleChar"> of </span>the gap<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> between the United States and its rivals </span>could //intensify// geopolitical competition //among// major powers<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, increase incentives for local powers to play major powers against one another, </span>and<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> undercut our will to preclude or respond to international crises because of the </span><span class="Box">higher </span>risk<span class="Box"> of </span>escalation<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The stakes are high. In modern history, </span><span class="TitleChar">the longest period of peace among the great powers has been the era of U.S. leadership</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. By contrast, </span>multi-polar systems have been unstable, with<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> their competitive dynamics resulting in frequent crises and </span>major warsamong<span class="TitleChar"> the</span>great powers<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Failures of multi-polar international systems produced both world wars. </span><span class="TitleChar">American retrenchment could have devastating consequences</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Without an American security blanket, regional powers could rearm in an attempt to balance against emerging threats. Under this scenario, </span>there would be<span class="TitleChar"> a heightened possibility of </span>arms races, miscalculation, or//other crises spiraling into// all-out conflict<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Alternatively, in seeking to accommodate the stronger powers, weaker powers may shift their geopolitical posture away from the United States. Either way, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions. </span><span class="Underline">As rival powers rise, Asia</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in particular </span><span class="Underline">is likely to emerge as a zone of great-power competition.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Beijing’s economic rise has enabled a dramatic military buildup focused on acquisitions of naval, cruise, and ballistic missiles, long-range stealth aircraft, and anti-satellite capabilities. China’s strategic modernization is aimed, ultimately, at denying the United States access to the seas around China. Even as cooperative economic ties in the region have grown, China’s expansive territorial claims — and provocative statements and actions following crises in Korea and incidents at sea — have roiled its relations with South Korea, Japan, India, and Southeast Asian states. Still, the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression. </span>Given the risks, the United States must focus on restoring its economic and fiscal condition while checking and managing the rise of<span class="Underline"> potential </span>adversarial regional powers<span class="Underline"> such as China.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> While we face significant challenges, the U.S. economy still accounts for over 20 percent of the world’s GDP. American institutions — particularly those providing enforceable rule of law — set it apart from all the rising powers. Social cohesion underwrites political stability. U.S. demographic trends are healthier than those of any other developed country. A culture of innovation, excellent institutions of higher education, and a vital sector of small and medium-sized enterprises propel the U.S. economy in ways difficult to quantify. Historically, Americans have responded pragmatically, and sometimes through trial and error, to work our way through the kind of crisis that we face today. The policy question is how to enhance economic growth and employment while cutting discretionary spending in the near term and curbing the growth of entitlement spending in the out years. Republican members of Congress have outlined a plan. Several think tanks and commissions, including President Obama’s debt commission, have done so as well. Some consensus exists on measures to pare back the recent increases in domestic spending, restrain future growth in defense spending, and reform the tax code (by reducing tax expenditures while lowering individual and corporate rates). These are promising options. The key remaining question is whether the president and leaders of both parties on Capitol Hill have the will to act and the skill to fashion bipartisan solutions. Whether we take the needed actions is a choice, however difficult it might be. It is clearly within our capacity to put our economy on a better trajectory. In garnering political support for cutbacks, the president and members of Congress should point not only to the domestic consequences of inaction — but also to the geopolitical implications. As the United States gets its economic and fiscal house in order, it should take steps to prevent a flare-up in Asia. The United States can do so by signaling that its domestic challenges will not impede its intentions to check Chinese expansionism. This can be done in cost-efficient ways. While China’s economic rise enables its military modernization and international assertiveness, it also frightens rival powers. The Obama administration has wisely moved to strengthen relations with allies and potential partners in the region but more can be done. Some Chinese policies encourage other parties to join with the United States, and the U.S. should not let these opportunities pass. China’s military assertiveness should enable security cooperation with countries on China’s periphery — particularly Japan, India, and Vietnam — in ways that complicate Beijing’s strategic calculus. China’s mercantilist policies and currency manipulation — which harm developing states both in East Asia and elsewhere — should be used to fashion a coalition in favor of a more balanced trade system. Since Beijing’s over-the-top reaction to the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to a Chinese democracy activist alienated European leaders, highlighting human-rights questions would not only draw supporters from nearby countries but also embolden reformers within China. </span><span class="Underline">Since the end of the Cold War, a stable economic and financial condition at home has enabled America to have an expansive role in the world. Today we can no longer take this for granted. </span>Unless we get our economic house in order, there is a risk that domestic stagnation in combination with the rise of rival powers will undermine our ability to deal with growing international problems.<span class="Underline"> Regional hegemons in Asia could seize the moment, leading the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity.</span>

Economic collapse leads to war and terrorism
**Harris & Burrows 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Mathew Harris, counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council (NIC), Ph.D. European History, Cambridge University; and Jennifer Burrows, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit; “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the __[[#|Financial Crisis]]__,” The Washington Quarterly, April 2009, [[https://csis.org/files/publication/twq09aprilburrowsharris.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Wider Ramifications of an Enduring Global Financial Crisis The report’s 30,000 ft. lesson that historic changes in the global economic and financial landscape require corresponding shifts in foreign policy thinking, is, if anything, even more apt. Artificial divisions between ‘‘eco- nomic’’ and ‘‘foreign’’ policy present a false dichotomy. To whom one extends swap lines and how the IMF is recapitalized are as much foreign policy as economic decisions. Several states openly hinge support for NATO and U.S. coalition efforts upon domestic economic conditions which in turn, they insist, is contingent on U.S. monetary and fiscal aid. Others blend the two with even greater calculation: China using its SWF to compel Costa Rica to disavow Taiwan, Russia resorting to military tactics to scare would be investors away from competing pipeline projects. Economics as High Politics As markets prove truly global in reach and risk, as margins progressively thin, and states assume ever-more market presence, the fictional barriers between ‘‘economic’’ and ‘‘foreign’’ policy will be increasingly difficult, even dangerous, to maintain. Finance and markets are now high politics. Mere days after the G-20 convened in Washington and promised to ‘‘refrain from raising new barriers to investment or to trade,’’ Brazil supported hikes in Mercosur common external tariffs on a range of goods, China tightened its dollar-peg and announced a new round of export tax-breaks, India levied a new duty on iron and steel manufactures, and Russian leaders increased auto import tariffs. Inability to hold ground on these old and familiar problems will exacerbate progress on new, arguably more difficult tasks such as managing stimulus efforts, coordinating their eventual drawdown, and not least, undertaking any meaningful financial regulation. Against these odds, and in face of untold consequences of failure, the price of admission onto the international high table, whether indeed the G-20 or some successor entity, must be more than aggregate GDP, and include increased responsibility for shouldering global burdens if new institutions are to be effective. Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, </span><span class="Underline">history may be more instructive than ever. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">While we continue to believe that </span>the Great Depression<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> is not likely to be repeated, the </span>lessons<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">to be drawn from that period </span>include<span class="Underline"> the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) </span><span class="Underline">and</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> on the </span><span class="Underline">sustainability of multilateral institutions</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(think League of Nations in the same period). </span><span class="Underline">There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">For that reason, the ways in which </span><span class="Underline">the </span>potential for greater conflict<span class="Underline"> could grow</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> would seem to be even more apt </span>in a constantly volatile economic environment<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. </span><span class="Underline">Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. </span>Terrorist groups<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in 2025 </span>will<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks_and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that </span>become self-radicalized<span class="Underline">, particularly </span>in the absence of economic outlets<span class="Underline"> that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any </span>economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence<span class="Underline"> would </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">almost certainly </span><span class="Underline">be the Middle East</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran </span>could lead states<span class="Underline"> in the region </span>to develop new security arrangements<span class="Underline"> with external powers, </span>acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity </span>conflict<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella </span>could lead to an unintended escalation<span class="Underline"> and broader conflict</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. </span><span class="Underline">The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also </span><span class="Underline">will produce inherent difficulties</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, </span><span class="Underline">short </span>warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">of Iranian intentions </span>may place<span class="Underline"> more </span>focus on preemption<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">rather than defense, potentially </span>leading to escalating crises<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. 36 Types of </span>conflict<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">that the world continues to experience, such as </span>over resources, could reemerge<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, particularly if </span>protectionism<span class="Underline"> grows </span>and<span class="Underline"> there is a resort to </span>neo-mercantilist practices<span class="Underline">. </span>Perceptions<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this </span>couldresult in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources<span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> for example, to be </span>essential for<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> maintaining domestic stability and the </span>survival of their regime<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. </span><span class="Underline">If the fiscal stimulus focus for</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> these </span><span class="Underline">countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. </span>With water<span class="Underline"> also </span>becoming scarcer<span class="Underline"> in Asia and the Middle East, </span>cooperation<span class="Underline"> to manage changing water resources </span>is<span class="Underline"> likely to be </span>increasingly difficult<span class="Underline"> both within and between states </span>in<span class="Underline"> a more </span>dog-eat-dog world<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">What Kind of World will 2025 Be? Perhaps more than lessons, history loves patterns. Despite widespread changes in the world today, there is little to suggest that the future will not resemble the past in several respects. The report asserts that, under most scenarios, the trend toward greater diffusion of authority and power that has been ongoing for a couple of decades is likely to accelerate because of the emergence of new global players, the worsening institutional deficit, potential growth in regional blocs, and enhanced strength of non-state actors and networks. </span>The multiplicity of actors on the international scene<span class="Underline"> could either strengthen the international system, by filling gaps left by aging post-World War II institutions, or </span>could further fragment it and incapacitate international cooperation.<span class="Underline"> The diversity in both type and kind of actor raises the likelihood of fragmentation occurring over the next two decades, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">particularly </span><span class="Underline">given the wide array of transnational challenges facing the international community.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Because of their growing geopolitical and economic clout, the rising powers will enjoy a high degree of freedom to customize their political and economic policies rather than fully adopting Western norms. They are also likely to cherish their policy freedom to maneuver, allowing others to carry the primary burden for dealing with terrorism, climate change, proliferation, energy security, and other system maintenance issues. Existing multilateral insti- tutions, designed for a different geopolitical order, appear too rigid and cumbersome to undertake new missions, accommodate chan- ging memberships, and augment their resources. Nongovernmental organizations and philan- thropic foundations, concentrating on specific issues, increasingly will populate the landscape but are unlikely to affect change in the absence of concerted efforts by multilateral institutions or governments. Efforts at greater inclusiveness, to reflect the emergence of the newer powers, may make it harder for international organizations to tackle transnational challenges. Respect for the dissenting views of member nations will continue to shape the agenda of organizations and limit the kinds of solutions that can be attempted. </span>An ongoing financial crisis<span class="Underline"> and prolonged recession </span>would tilt the scales<span class="Underline"> even further </span>in the direction of a fragmented and dysfunctional international system with a heightened risk of conflict<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The report concluded that the rising BRIC powers (Brazil, Russia, India, and China) seem averse to challenging the international system, as Germany and Japan did in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, but this of course could change if their widespread hopes for greater prosperity become frustrated and the current benefits they derive from a globalizing world turn negative. </span>

Slow growth makes the US desperate - leads to violent hegemonic wars
**<span style="color: #222222;">Goldstein 7</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, Avery Goldstein, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064|Journal of Strategic Studies]]</span>, Volume<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064~tab=issueslist~branches=30#v30|30]]</span>, Issue <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=g780703608|4 & 5 ]]</span>August 2007, pages 639 – 682</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for international politics of a shift in power between a dominant state and a rising power. In War and Change in World Politics, Robert </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">Gilpin suggested that </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">peace prevails when a dominant state’s capabilities enable it to ‘govern’ an international order that it has shaped. Over time, however, </span>__as economic and technological diffusion proceeds__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> during eras of peace and development, </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">other states are empowered</span>.__ <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">Moreover, the burdens of international governance drain and distract the reigning hegemon, and </span>__challengers__ <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">eventually </span>__emerge____<span style="color: #222222;"> who seek to rewrite the rules of governance. </span>As the power advantage of the__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> erstwhile </span>__hegemon ebbs, it may become desperate enough to resort to__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> theultima ratio of international politics, </span>__force, to forestall the__ <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">increasingly urgent</span> __demands of a rising challenger__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">. Or </span>__as the power of the challenger rises, it may be tempted to press its case with__ <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">threats to use</span> __force. It is the rise and fall of the great powers that creates__ <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">the circumstances under which major wars, what Gilpin labels </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">‘</span>__<span class="Underline">hegemonic wars’</span>__<span style="color: #222222;">, </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">break out.13 Gilpin’s argument logically encourages pessimism about the implications of a rising China. It leads to the expectation that international trade, investment, and technology transfer will result in a steady </span>__diffusion of American economic power, benefit__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">ing the </span>__rapidly developing states__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the world, including China. As </span>**<span style="color: #222222;">the US</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> simultaneously scurries to put out the many brushfires that threaten its far-flung global interests (i.e., the classic problem of overextension), it </span>**<span style="color: #222222;">will be unable to devote sufficient resources to maintain or restore</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> its former advantage over emerging competitors like China. </span>__While the erosion of the__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> once clear </span>__American advantage plays itself out, the US will find it__ __<span style="color: #222222;">ever more </span>difficult to preserve the order__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> in Asia </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">that </span>it created__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> during its era of preponderance</span>**<span style="color: #222222;">. </span>**__The expectation is an increase in the likelihood for the use of force – either by a__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Chinese </span>__challenger__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> able to field a stronger military in support of its demands for greater influence over international arrangements in Asia</span>__<span style="color: #222222;">, </span>or____<span style="color: #222222;"> by a besieged </span>American hegemon____<span style="color: #222222;"> desperate to head off further decline</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Among the trends that____<span style="color: #222222;"> alarm</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> those who would look at Asia through the lens of Gilpin’s theory </span>__are China’s expanding share of world trade and wealth__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">(much of it resulting from the gains made possible by the international economic order a dominant US established); </span>__its acquisition of t____<span style="color: #222222;">echnology in </span>key sectors__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> that have both civilian and military applications (e.g., information, communications, and electronics linked with to forestall, and the challenger becomes increasingly determined to realize the transition to a new international order whose contours it will define. the ‘revolution in military affairs’); and an expanding military burden for the US (as it copes with the challenges of its global war on terrorism and especially its struggle in Iraq) that limits the resources it can devote to preserving its interests in East Asia.14 Although similar to Gilpin’s work insofar as it emphasizes the importance of shifts in the capabilities of a dominant state and a rising challenger, the power-transition theory A. F. K. Organski and Jacek Kugler present in The War Ledger focuses more closely on the allegedly dangerous phenomenon of ‘crossover’– the point at which a dissatisfied challenger is about to overtake the established leading state.15 In such cases, </span>__when the power gap narrows, the dominant state becomes increasingly desperate.__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Though suggesting why a rising China may ultimately present grave dangers for international peace when its capabilities make it a peer competitor of America, Organski and Kugler’s </span>__power-transition theory__ <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">is less clear about the dangers while a potential challenger still lags far behind and faces a difficult struggle to catch up. This clarification is important in thinking about the theory’s relevance to interpreting China’s rise because a broad consensus prevails among analysts that Chinese military capabilities are at a minimum two decades from putting it in a league with the US in Asia.16 Their theory, then, </span>__points with alarm to trends in China’s growing wealth and power relative to the U____<span style="color: #222222;">nited </span>S____<span style="color: #222222;">tates</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">, but </span>__especially__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> looks ahead to what it sees as </span>__the period of maximum danger__ __<span style="color: #222222;">– that time </span>when__ __<span style="color: #222222;">a dissatisfied </span>China could__ __<span style="color: #222222;">be in a position to </span>overtake the US on dimensions believed crucial for assessing power. R____<span style="color: #222222;">eports</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> beginning in the mid-1990s that offered extrapolations </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">suggest</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">ing </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">China’s growth would give it the world’s largest </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">gross domestic product (</span>__<span style="color: #222222;">GDP</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> aggregate, not per capita) </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">sometime in the first</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> few</span>__<span style="color: #222222;"> decades of the twentieth century</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> fed these sorts of concerns about a potentially dangerous challenge to American leadership in Asia.17 The huge gap between Chinese and American military capabilities (especially in terms of technological sophistication) has so far discouraged prediction of comparably disquieting trends on this dimension, but inklings of similar concerns may be reflected in occasionally alarmist reports about purchases of advanced Russian air and naval equipment, as well as concern that Chinese espionage may have undermined the American advantage in nuclear and missile technology, and speculation about the potential military purposes of China’s manned space program.18 Moreover, </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">because </span>a dominant state may react to the prospect of a crossover and__ __<span style="color: #222222;">believe that it is wiser to </span>embrace the logic of preventive war__ __<span style="color: #222222;">and act early </span>to delay a transition____<span style="color: #222222;"> while the task is more manageable</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Organski and Kugler’s </span>__power-transition theory__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span>__provides grounds for concern about the period prior to the possible crossover____<span style="color: #222222;">.</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">19 pg. 647-650</span>


=<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Perpetua','serif';">Advantage 2: Elections</span>**</span>= 

(some card about obama winning)
(some author) (Some date) *(Some quals) (Some article title) (Some link to a shaddy website) (:))
(Some text)


Slim victories mean smaller Congressional gains - models and polls prove, but races will be close.
**Kondik 9-20** (Kyle Kondik, House Editor, Sabato’s Crystal Ball, “House Battle at Relative Standstill, but Watch Generic Ballot,” 9-20-2012, <span style="color: #001de0;">[[http://www.centerforpolitics.org/crystalball/articles/house-battle-at-relative-standstill/]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">After shuffling many of our House ratings, it’s pretty obvious that </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the race for the House remains locked in a battle of trench warfare, with little obvious movement on either side.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Given that the Republicans start from a position of great strength — </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Democrats need to net 25 seats to take control of the House</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> — the GOP remains a heavy favorite to hold the lower chamber of Congress. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Our new ratings show 195 safe seats for the Republicans and 156 safe seats for the Democrats, with 14 likely Republican seats and 13 likely Democratic seats. That leaves 23 leaning Republican and 20 leaning Democratic with 14 toss-ups.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Only 57 of 435 seats — 13% — are in the leaning or toss-up categories. Our last full House update projected a Democratic gain of six seats; this time, we’re projecting a Democratic gain of four seats. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Given the nature of the House — where many races are likely to be close to the end</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">and where reliable polling is</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> relatively scant, compared to Senate or gubernatorial races — our projections are bound to change, perhaps dramatically, in the last seven weeks before the election. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But the center of gravity in this race</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> — two sides locked in a close contest — is clear, and it </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">favors the Republicans</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Parsing the generic ballot Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Executive Director Robby Mook said a couple weeks ago that the race for the House was “in a neutral environment,” but that if the generic House ballot was at Democrats plus five points, “we have a good shot.” We think the Democratic advantage in the generic ballot would have to be higher, but this was a relatively clear-eyed — and, for Democrats, potentially off-message — assessment. The generic House ballot, a polling question that asks whether a respondent plans to vote for the Republican or Democratic candidate in his or her local U.S. House race, is an imperfect but useful tool in measuring the direction of the House race. Chart 1 shows the average generic ballot on Sept. 19 for the past five national elections. In 2006 and 2008, Democrats had already assumed a fairly big lead (six points or so), which was indicative of their sizable seat gains in those two cycles, and Republicans had also opened a slightly smaller lead at this point two years ago (4.5 points), which eventually ballooned into a 9.4 percentage point generic ballot edge in a year in which they picked up 63 House seats. Meanwhile, 2002 and 2004 saw smaller leads for Republicans and Democrats, respectively, at this point in those cycles; Republicans ended up making modest additions to their majorities those years. Granted, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the generic ballot is not exactly the most precise measure</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> — as is clear from the chart, the final average is typically off by several points from the actual combined national House vote — </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">but Democrats have made some recent movement in the generic ballot,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> perhaps related to President Obama’s polling bump from his recent convention; </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they now lead by 2.2 percentage points in the RealClearPolitics average</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (the full trend for the year is available at that link; it kind of looks like a roller coaster, albeit one for little kids given the small range). </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Other averages have the Democratic lead in the three-to-four-point range. How predictive is the total House vote of the number of seats won? Not perfect, but certainly more predictive than it used to be. In the 24 House elections held between the end of World War II up to the 1994 Republican Revolution (1946-1992), Democrats won an average of 52.6% of all votes cast in those House elections but captured 58.6% of the seats.Meanwhile, Republicans won 46.1% of votes cast but only 41.3% of the seats. So Democrats</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> — probably in part because of the very Democratic Solid South — </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">typically won more House seats than their performance in the total national House vote would merit, and Republicans won fewer</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. After 1994 — when the Solid South accelerated its turn to the Republicans — that Democratic advantage went away, as demonstrated in Chart 2. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In the nine elections from 1994 to 2010, both Republicans and Democrats did slightly better than their overall vote would indicate, but Republicans won about two percentage points more total seats and Democrats won about one percentage point more </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(these numbers don’t add up to 100 because of rounding and votes for third party candidates). While we don’t have a big sample size, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it seems that the total House vote does tell us something about how many seats a party will hold after the election in this era</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. To be clear, a 2.2 percentage point lead for the Democrats in the generic ballot at this point is not very meaningful, but if that number inches up a few more points points, that might foretell bigger gains. Models confirm the conventional wisdom Last week in the Crystal Ball, we showcased some presidential forecasting models. Taken on average, they forecast a tiny two-party popular vote majority for the president (50.2% for Obama, and 49.8% for Romney). </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There are models for the House,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> too. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A model by Crystal Ball contributor Jim Campbell of the University at Buffalo-SUNY shows a Democratic gain of close to 10 seats. Campbell’s forecast is based on the net difference of the number of Democratic and Republican “seats in trouble.” These are seats in substantial jeopardy of being lost by a party. Two forecasts are produced using the “seats in trouble” index, one also taking into account the number of seats Democrats currently hold and a second taking into account the president’s approval rating</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The equations, which will be fully explained in the October edition of PS: Political Science & Politics, predict Democrats to gain about eight or nine seats. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Another model, published this week at the political science blog The Monkey Cage, showed Democrats gaining just one seat. It uses a combination of national factors and district-level statistics to makes its forecast</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (more details are available at the link). While neither model precludes the possibility of a Democratic takeover, their overall conclusions are pretty similar — modest Democratic gains, but continued Republican control. Rating changes: Going out on some limbs, and staying out on some others It’s getting to be moving time in the House, and given that the Crystal Ball will not have any toss-ups by Election Day, we’re going to stick our neck out a little bit in some places, with the caveat that we might have to revisit these races later. Rep. Brian Bilbray’s (R, CA-52) performance in the June primary was weak enough that he has been on watch all summer. While the race appears to be a dead heat at the moment, we think Democratic turnout should lift challenger Scott Peters — so we’re pushing this race in the leans Democratic direction. We’re also comfortable enough now to upgrade the chances of Rep. Mark Critz (D, PA-12). His Western Pennsylvania district is challenging for Democrats, but this John Murtha protégé proved his mettle in a tough primary race against fellow Democrat Jason Altmire in the spring, and he survived two tough races in 2010. We’re giving the benefit of the doubt to 2010 Democratic survivors like Critz, when prudent. Rep. David Cicilline (D, RI-1) is lucky to be running in a very Democratic district in a very Democratic state. While he’s not well-liked because of his time as mayor of Providence, Democrats — especially in much of New England — appear to be strongly coalescing around their president and their party. That should be enough to get Cicilline across the finish line, so we’re moving him to leans Democratic. The same thing goes for Rep. John Tierney (D, MA-6), who has suffered from bad publicity over his family’s legal troubles. We’re keeping him in the leans Democratic column even though he, like Cicilline, is a weak incumbent. In Nevada, we’re tilting NV-3 to Rep. Joe Heck (R), where challenger and state Assembly Speaker John Oceguera (D) has run a widely-panned race. This is not because of a recent SurveyUSA poll that showed Heck up 13 points; that poll seems Republican-leaning and we don’t believe Heck is leading by that much, but nonetheless we are shifting his rating. Heck joins Reps. David Rivera (FL-26), Allen West (FL-18) and Dan Benishek (MI-1) as highly tenuous Republican House favorites in our ratings. Meanwhile, there are a few other races that we’re moving into the toss-up column. Rep. Mike McIntyre (D, NC-7) is the hardest target for Republicans in the redistricted Tar Heel State. If the GOP falls short of maximizing their gains there (three other Democratic-held seats are shaded in various hues of red in our ratings), it will be because the Blue Dog McIntyre hangs on. Rep. Mike Coffman (R, CO-6), meanwhile, saw his district become much more Democratic in redistricting, and he, like McIntyre, will try to hold on in unfavorable territory; Coffman’s district is a better target than that of Rep. Scott Tipton (R, CO-3), so we’re distinguishing the two by listing Coffman as a toss-up. In Illinois, we’re sticking with lean/likely Democratic ratings for four Republican-held seats, but of those four vulnerable Republicans (Reps. Judy Biggert, Robert Dold, Bobby Schilling and Joe Walsh), only Walsh seems like a slam dunk for the Democrats. With toss-up IL-12 (held by retiring Democratic Rep. Jerry Costello) and leaning Republican IL-13 (held by retiring Rep. Tim Johnson), there’s plenty of action in the Land of Lincoln, with possible outcomes ranging from a net zero change in seats to Democrats netting five. Expect something closer to the latter (our ratings currently reflect a perhaps-too-rosy net plus-four for Democrats there, assuming they hold IL-12). One person who disagrees with our ratings? None other than Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) — he believes Tammy Duckworth (D) will defeat Walsh and that Bill Enyart (D) will hold IL-12, but that the others are “toss-ups.” We may end up agreeing with him as Election Day grows nearer. Two seats moving off our list are AR-1 and NM-1, which are recent battleground seats in states that are trending blue (NM) and red (AR). Another is Rep. Pat Meehan’s (R, PA-7) seat; in a state where they lost five net seats in 2012, Democrats really only have one viable pickup opportunity: Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick (R, PA-8), who was elected for the first time in 2004, lost in 2006, and regained his seat in 2010. Several Democratic-leaning seats get bluer in these ratings; one, however, is coming onto the list: National Republican Congressional Committee Executive Director Guy Harrison’s pet project this cycle seems to be defeating Rep. Ed Perlmutter (D, CO-7), who is facing Republican Joe Coors (brother Pete lost a Senate race to Democrat Ken Salazar in 2004). Coors, a member of the brewing family, has tons of money to spend, and Democrats were sufficiently spooked that the House Majority PAC, a SuperPAC that supports Democratic House campaigns, spent $500,000 there on ads, as has labor. Perlmutter remains a heavy favorite, but the race belongs on the list of competitive contests. Reps. Michele Bachmann (R, MN-6) and Kristi Noem (R, SD-AL) also return to our list of competitive races, but we’d be surprised if either lost. Bachmann has certainly said enough outrageous things over the years to be in trouble, but she occupies the most Republican district in Minnesota. At first blush, saying “the most Republican district in Minnesota” may bring to mind William F. Buckley’s idea of a backhanded compliment (“the tallest building in Wichita, Kansas”), but Bachmann’s district only gave President Obama 43% of the vote in 2008, or 11 percentage points less than the state as a whole. Bachmann will always be a target, but it will take a Herculean effort to unseat her; Democratic businessman Jim Graves is giving it a go this time around, and his internal polling shows him close to the former presidential candidate. Conclusion As our House race charts show below, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there are dozens of competitive races for the House, and many of them will be difficult to call, even right before Election Day. However, there is little indication that the majority of the closest races — the leaners and the toss-ups — are strongly moving in one direction or the other</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A closely contested House race,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> with no wave building for one side or the other, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> by default </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a good position for the incumbent party. But watch the generic ballot; if races start moving to Democrats en masse, the trend will probably pop up in that number.</span>

Obama's campaign messages aren't working - creating a NIB will be seen as prioritizing job creation over fiscal austerity
**Jones 12** (Forrest Jones, citing Robert Reich, economist, former U.S. Secretary of Labor, and professor of public policy at the University of California at Berkeley, “Reich: Obama’s Campaign Message Falling Short,” Money News, 4-23-2012, [[http://www.moneynews.com/StreetTalk/Reich-Obama-Campaign-Message/2012/04/23/id/436699]])

President<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Barack </span>Obama can lose to<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">likely </span><span class="Underline">challenger</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Mitt </span>Romney if he sticks with his we've-come-this-far campaign message, says<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> economist and </span>former<span class="Underline"> U.S. </span>Secretary of Labor<span class="Underline"> Robert </span>Reich<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>The economy is recovering but not fast enough to prevent voters from blowing off Obama's<span class="Underline"> stick-with-me </span>promises in favor of Romney's<span class="Underline"> I'll-do-it-better </span>stumps<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. "The Obama White House should face it: </span>'We’re on the right track' isn’t sufficient. The President has to offer the nation a clear, bold strategy for boosting the economy. It should be the economic mandate for his second term<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">," Reich writes in his blog. For Obama to win, he needs to base his campaign on four points, according to Reich, who served in three national administrations and was a secretary of labor under President Bill Clinton. First, Obama should demand that the nation’s banks modify mortgages of struggling homeowners and threaten to bring the Glass-Steagall Act if banks don't go along. The repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act under President Clinton allowed banks to offer both retail and investment banking services. Second, he needs to do more to fight oil speculators than he is already doing, and third, </span>he needs to push through more job-creating investments in<span class="Underline"> the </span>infrastructure by renewing his call for an infrastructure bank and put job-creating top priority over fiscal austerity<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Lastly, he need to tackle widening income gaps. "With so much of the nation’s disposable income and wealth going to the top, the vast middle class doesn’t have the purchasing power it needs to fire up the economy. That’s why the Buffett rule, setting a minimum tax rate for millionaires, is just a first step for ensuring that the gains from growth are widely shared," says Reich, a professor of public policy at the University of California at Berkeley. Obama's Buffett Rule, which slaps a 30 percent minimum tax on those earning at least $1 million annually and named after legendary investor Warren Buffett who championed the idea, failed to push through in the Senate.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Two internal links to Congressional control – </span>**

First is coattails - a win on a popular jobs plan is key for Democrats to retake the majority in the House
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Silver 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Nate Silver, statistician and political analyst, editor of FiveThirtyEight.com, accurately predicted 49 of 50 states in the 2008 presidential election, named one of the World’s 100 Most Influential People in 2009 by Time Magazine, studied at the London School of Economics, A.B. economics, University of Chicago, former high school debater, “Do Democrats Have a Shot at the House?” FiveThirtyEight blog, New York Times, 6-23-2012, [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/06/23/do-democrats-have-a-shot-at-the-house/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Taken as a whole, the set of special elections might suggest that races for the House could be more localized and idiosyncratic than in 2006, 2008 or 2010, rather than there being a wave in either direction. </span>The Democrats need to gain<span class="Underline"> a net of </span>25 seats to take control of the House,<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> probably more than they could realize just by happening to win a lot of coin flips at the district-by-district level. So where does the Democrats’ upside case come from? There is always the statistical probability that the economy will grow by a faster-than-expected rate in the second half of the year. Economists expect the economy to grow by about 2.3 percent over the next two quarters. But </span>economic forecasting is an extremely rough science and “surprising” results occur<span class="Underline"> more often</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (and both to the upside and the downside) than forecasters might like to acknowledge. </span>We could be back in a recession by the end of the year, or we could be creating 200,000 jobs per month. Even the economic upside case<span class="Underline">, however, would not be an unambiguous good for Democratic Congressional candidates. </span>It would likely help President Obama, and in presidential election years, a large number of people do not pay much attention to House races, enabling the winning presidential candidate to have some coattails<span class="Underline"> down the ballot.Apart from these coattail effects, though, </span>the impact of economic performance is rather ambiguous in races for the Congress when control of government is divided<span class="Underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">There is an entirely credible theory that if voters are happier, they may be more inclined to retain the status quo, which in this case means a Democratic president and a Republican House. It may be noteworthy that at the same time that Barack Obama’s approval ratings were improving somewhat in the first three months of this year, mostly as a result of slightly improved economic confidence, the generic Congressional ballot seemed to be getting more favorable for Republicans rather than Democrats. I would certainly think Democratic candidates for the House would prefer a better economy on balance, but it is not a slam dunk. Instead, </span><span class="Underline">the numbers that would leave me at least a little bit worried if I were a Republican incumbent are the extremely low Congressional approval ratings, which are hovering at about 18 percent and which are improved only slightly from their lows after the debt-ceiling debate. Historically, these numbers have seemed to have some predictive power: when Congressional approval has been lower, the amount of turnover in Congress has been higher. Higher turnover could cut for incumbents of both parties. However, since Republicans have more incumbents in the House — and far more incumbents in competitive districts because they won almost all of them in 2010 — this could work to their disadvantage on balance</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. (The same would not necessarily be true, importantly, in the Senate, where Democrats are defending more incumbent seats). House campaigns have not really begun yet — and voters do not tune into them until quite late in the cycle. It seems plausible that challenging candidates will find that they have the wind at their backs once these voters do begin to tune in. In short, the signs so far are that Republican incumbents are holding up well enough in the House, and that there is not much of a wave breaking in either direction. But, it is quite early, and I do not think we have a keen sense yet of how anti-Congressional sentiment might translate into individual races. Betting markets give Democrats about 4-to-1 odds against re-claiming the House. This is not completely out of line, but I might take Democrats’ side of the bet just on the general principle of long uncertainty early in a political cycle.</span>

NIB has broad bipartisan public support
**Likosky 11** (Michael Likosky, Senior Fellow at New York University’s Institute for Public Knowledge, formerly a tenured law professor at the University of London and former Markle Foundation Fellow at Oxford University, an expert to the United Nations and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, he actively advises intergovernmental organizations, governments, investors, major broadcasters, public interest groups, and labor unions, “Bipartisanship Post-Labor-Day: P3s and a National Infrastructure Bank,” Huffington Post, 8-29-2011, <span style="color: #001de0;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michael-likosky/bipartisanship-postlabor-_b_939966.html]]</span>)

<span class="Underline">We can expect proposals in the coming weeks aiming for a domestic economic surge, putting Americans back to work</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. But Americans should be wary of four types of proposals: Ones not designed to kick in before a 2013 inaugural address. Ones not enjoying broad bipartisan support. Ones dramatically increasing public spending. Ones not finding ways of moving the sizable amounts of private capital now sitting on the sidelines into physical and social infrastructure, renewables, mining, oil and gas, etc. </span><span class="Underline">Politicians and Voters of All Stripes Support Public-Private Partnerships </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Disagreements obviously still exist. An example, though: U.S. Congresswoman Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.), the Tea Party leader, champions the bipartisan public-private partnership bridge project linking Minnesota and Wisconsin, the St. Croix River Crossing, together with Senator Al Franken (D-Minn.), Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Senator Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Senator Herb Kohl (D-Wis.), U.S. Representative Chip Cravaack (R-Minn.), U.S. Representative Sean Duffy (R-Wis.) and U.S. Ronald Kind (D-Wiss.). </span>A recent Rockefeller Foundation survey found that 78 percent of all voters support increased public-private partnerships<span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> including 85 percent of Republicans, 84 percent of conservatives, 80 percent of Tea Party supporters, 79 percent of liberals, 78 percent of democrats, 77 percent of moderates, 73 percent of independents, 80 percent of Midwesterners, 79 percent of Southerners, 79 percent of Northeasterns and 75 percent of Westerners. Across the board, </span>a majority of each group favors a National Infrastructure Bank to move<span class="Underline"> this </span>private capital into projects. President<span class="Underline"> Barack </span>Obama, former Alaska Governor<span class="Underline"> Sarah </span>Palin, Warren Buffet and David Koch all favor partnerships<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The Daily, Rupert Murdoch's iPad newspaper, developed with Apple's Steve Jobs, recently published a piece, "Building Consensus: </span>An Infrastructure Bank<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Is an Idea that Everyone Can Apparently Get Behind," explaining the business case for the proposed National Infrastructure Bank. The idea </span>has broad support<span class="Underline">, even if we differ</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> -- often sharply </span><span class="Underline">-- on specific projects.</span>

Second is economic stewardship - passing an infrastructure bank is key to reverse perceptions of Democratic irresponsibility
**Meyerson 11** (Harold Meyerson, political columnist for the Washington Post, “Obama Flips the 2012 deck,” The Washington Post, 5-4-2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/for_2012_a_reversal_of_obamas_selling_points/2011/05/03/AFhZRQiF_story.html?nav=emailpage]])

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">The death of Osama bin Laden — and the success of President Obama’s roll-the-dice decision to deploy troops to get him — may change the landscape of American politics in one surprising particular. When Obama runs for reelection in 2012, he’ll probably be strong where his Democratic predecessors have been weak — and weak where they were strong. By now </span><span class="Underline">it’s clear that whatever domestic political advantage Republicans sought to gain from accusing Democrats of being “soft on terror”</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> — much as previous generations of Republicans occasionally made hay by accusing Democrats of being soft on communism — </span><span class="Underline">has been spent</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">. In the 2006 congressional elections, voters punished Republicans for badly waging a war in Iraq that the GOP had tried to justify as an extension of that war against terrorism. Now, </span>Obama has done what George W. Bush failed to do: bring bin Laden to justice. Obama has also kept his promise to end the combat participation of American forces in Iraq.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> What he will do next in Afghanistan is anybody’s guess, but if he withdraws a sizable number of troops — from a war whose goal grows murkier with each passing day — he’ll do so with substantial public support. Republican hawks will surely criticize that decision, but the odds are close to zilch that GOP presidential hopefuls will run on a platform of continuing the Afghan war — especially since Obama has taken out Osama. Take Obama’s success in killing bin Laden, add to it Bush’s decision to wage a hugely expensive and unnecessary war in Iraq, and what emerges is indeed a somewhat altered political terrain. The Republican advantage in times of heightened national security concerns — a prominent feature of both Cold War America and America in the post-Sept. 11 era — has been substantially neutralized. (Not, of course, for the Republican right, for whom Democrats, Obama very much included, are weak on defense because they’re Democrats. If the facts get in their way, counterfacts have to be invented, as they were in the Swiftboating of John Kerry.) </span><span class="Underline">But if Obama has neutralized the Republicans’ traditional advantage in foreign and military policy, he also largely forfeited the Democrats’ traditional advantage in domestic economic policy. </span>Unless Obama plans some changes in economic policy as swift and surprising as the bin Laden raid, Democrats will go into the 2012 election with an economy that shows few signs of recovery<span class="Underline"> and with equally few proposals to make it better.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> They will be opposing Republican plans that would make the economy radically worse by imposing unsupportable health-care costs on seniors and slashing public-sector investments. But </span>the election will be more a referendum on Obama’s stewardship of the economy than it will be on Republicans’ economic nuttiness or Obama’s national security achievements<span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> (unless, of course, America falls victim to another terrorist assault). In the early months of his presidency, Obama and his economic advisers failed to gauge the extent to which homeowner debt would cripple the construction industry and overall purchasing, as well as the extent to which the globalization of America’s major corporations and their markets would dictate that their hiring, when it resumed, would happen more overseas than at home. Even if the president had assessed these trends more accurately, it’s not clear he could have persuaded Congress to enact a public works program large and effective enough to take up the slack created by the domestic private sector’s failure to expand. But </span>unless the president is willing to climb this hill now — at least by making the case for<span class="Underline">, say, </span>a public infrastructure bank and for strategic public investments on a much larger scale <span class="Underline">than he has thus far </span>— he goes into the election with no real plan to help the economy<span class="Underline">. He’ll have a significant record of achievement, including a close-to-universal health-care law and a new generation of regulations on our otherwise out-of-control banks.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> For their part, Republicans are still busy cooking up bad ideas he can run against. </span>That, plus his national security bona fides and a second-rate Republican opponent, may be enough to secure him a second term.<span class="Underline"> But unless Obama becomes as bold on the economy as he was in hunting down bin Laden, his campaign may not resemble Democratic campaigns of yore</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">. Strong on defense. Not much to say on the economy. Obama (or is that McCain?) for president.</span>

This will be key to the election
**Jackson 12** (Henry C. Jackson, Associated Press, “Veteran House Dems gear up for competitive races,” CNS News, 7-10-2012, <span style="color: #001de0;">[[http://cnsnews.com/news/article/veteran-house-dems-gear-competitive-races]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">For Rep. Lois Capps of California and other vulnerable House Democrats, </span><span class="Underline">a string of successful re-election bids and double-digit margins of victory may mean little this year.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> Her Santa Barbara-area district has been redrawn in the wake of the latest census, turning it from Democratic-leaning to one evenly divided between Republicans and Democrats. Capps has responded by spending more time than ever raising money, hiring campaign staff and meeting voters. "It's totally intensive, labor-intensive," she says. And unheard of for a six-term congresswoman who routinely defeats her Republican opponents by 20 to 36 percentage points. At least seven other veteran House Democrats — in California, Iowa, Utah, Massachusetts, New York, Georgia and North Carolina — have become top GOP targets because of new district boundaries. </span>The prospect of making Democratic veterans fight for their seats, if not lose them, offers House Republicans a chance to show some political muscle after a wrenching two-year term in which the<span class="Underline"> factions of the </span>GOP struggled to govern in the wake of recession. With the electorate still down on Congress and deeply concerned about the economy and joblessness, Republicans seeking to fortify their 51-seat House majority are rushing to frame the 2012 election as a referendum on<span class="Underline"> President Barack </span>Obama's stewardship, as well as that of his Democratic allies."Voters across the country have reached a breaking point.<span class="Underline"> They know we can't fix the problems in Washington unless we remove the career politicians who have been part of the problem for decades,"</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> said Andrea Bozek, a spokeswoman for the National Republican Campaign Committee. The NRCC, the House Republicans' campaign arm, has already reserved ad time targeting some longtime House Democrats: —$2.2 million for ads that could hit Rep. John Tierney, D-Mass., first elected in 1996. —$948,000 for ad time against Rep. Jim Matheson, D-Utah, elected in 2000. —$700,000 for Rep. Mike McIntyre, D-N.C., first elected in 1996. —Thousands of dollars for ads targeting Capps and Rep. John Barrow, D-Ga., first elected in 2004. Democrats, who need to pick up 25 House seats to regain the majority, say 2012 will not be a reprise of 2010. </span><span class="Underline">Two years ago, 17 Democrats who had served at least four terms lost their seats and 11 more retired and did not seek other public office. Vulnerable incumbents have anticipated redistricting, Democrats say, and they've been educated by the experiences of former colleagues who didn't appreciate the political threats that faced them until it was too late.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> Some of the ousted veterans, like former Rep. Gene Taylor, D-Miss., first elected in 1988, were outraised by their opponents. Others, like former Reps. Jim Oberstar, D-Minn., and Solomon Ortiz, D-Texas, elected in 1974 and 1982, respectively, seemed to realize too late that they were in a race. Both Oberstar and Ortiz comfortably outraised their opponents but left thousands of dollars unspent in their campaign accounts. Redistricting presents incumbents a stark choice: Retire and avoid a grueling campaign, or buckle down and fight.</span>

A new strategy for growth is key - our evidence provides the best data
<span class="Underline">Teixeira & Halpin 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Ruy Teixeira, Senior Fellow at both the Century Foundation and the Center for American Progress, guest scholar at the Brookings Institution, where he has directed projects on the political demography of battleground states, Ph.D., sociology, University of Wisconsin-Madison; and John Halpin, Senior Fellow and co-director and creator of the Progressive Studies Program at the Center American Progress, former senior associate at Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research, providing strategic guidance and public opinion research for political parties and candidates, M.A. political science, University of Colorado, Boulder, B.A. Georgetown University; “The Path to 270: Demographics Versus Economics in the 2012 Presidential Election,” 11-22-2011,http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/11/path_to_270.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">With a little under one year to go before the 2012 presidential election, </span><span class="Underline">next year’s battle looks increasingly competitive, with ongoing economic distress and a highly energized Republican base</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> potentially </span><span class="Underline">neutralizin</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">g the </span><span class="Underline">incumbency advantage that</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> President Barack </span><span class="Underline">Obama would traditionally hold</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Obviously, </span>//much could change// <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">between now and then but at the outset of the election campaign it is clear that </span><span class="Underline">two large forces will ultimately determine the outcome</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: the </span><span class="Underline">shifting demographic balance </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">of the American electorate, </span><span class="Underline">and the </span>objective reality and voter perception of the econ<span class="Underline">omy </span>in key battleground states<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The central questions of the election are thus fairly straightforward. Will the rising electorate of communities of color, the Millennial generation, professionals, single women, and seculars that pushed Obama to victory in 2008 be sufficient and mobilized enough to ensure his re-election in 2012? Or will the Republican Party and its presidential nominee capitalize on a struggling economy and greater mobilization from a conservative base that holds the president in deep disdain? Regardless of the outcome, </span><span class="Underline">it is </span>likely that<span class="Underline"> American </span>politics will remain highly contested and polarized<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for years to come. The </span><span class="Underline">electoral volatility</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> seen </span><span class="Underline">from</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span><span class="Underline">06 to</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span><span class="Underline">10 suggests</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that the </span><span class="Underline">biggest issues in American politics</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—the role of government, the balance of public and market forces, taxation, and social welfare policies—</span><span class="Underline">remain contested</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in partisan terms. The financial crisis and the Great Recession have severely clouded the electoral picture, making it clear that 2008 marked only the potential for a new progressive alignment in American elections, rather than its consolidation. </span><span class="Underline">Given</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">job approval ratings</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the president </span><span class="Underline">and economic indicators in key states</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (see Table 1 on next page), the </span>2012 election will<span class="Underline"> likely </span>be tighter<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> than the 2008 election, perhaps more like 2004 or even the highly contested 2000 election. What strengths and weaknesses do President Obama and Democrats hold going into 2012? As we’ve previously argued in other CAP reports (see “New Progressive America,” “State of American Political Ideology, 2009” and “Demographic Change and the Future of the Parties”), the </span>//shifting demographic composition of the electorate//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—rising percentages of communities of color, single and highly educated women, Millennial generation voters, secular voters, and educated whites living in more urbanized states or more urbanized parts of states—</span>//clearly favors Democrats and has increased therelative strength of the party//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in national elections in recent years. In contrast, the Republican Party’s coalition of older, whiter, more rural, and evangelical voters is shrinking and becoming more geographically concentrated and less important to the overall political landscape of the country. These Democratic advantages emerged clearly in the 2008 presidential election. Barack </span>Obama’s 53 percent popular vote represented<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the</span>largest share<span class="Underline"> any presidential candidate received </span>in 20 years<span class="Cite">. Obama won 365 electoral votes and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> he </span><span class="Cite">carried all 18 states</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, plus the District of Columbia, that John Kerry won in 2004 (as did Al Gore in 2000 and Bill Clinton in 1992 and 1996), </span><span class="Cite">plus nine states that Kerry lost</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: Colorado, Florida, Indiana, Iowa, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, and Virginia. By region, </span><span class="Cite">this pattern</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of Democratic victories </span><span class="Cite">helped to reduce core GOP strength</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in presidential elections to the Upper Mountain West, Great Plains states, and the South. Republicans also lost their political monopoly in the South as the three fast-growing “new south” states of Virginia, North Carolina, and Florida went Democratic in 2008. The Northeast, the Midwest (with the exception of Missouri), the Southwest (with the exception of Arizona), and the West were solidly controlled by the Democrats. Moreover, </span><span class="Cite">the states the GOP carried tended to be rural and lightly populated.Sixteen out of 28 states Obama carried had 10 or more electoral votes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> while just 4 of the 21 that John McCain carried had that many electoral votes. </span><span class="Cite">Obama</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span><span class="Cite">carried seven of the eight most populous states</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: California, New York, Florida, Illinois, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Michigan. Only one of the eight most populous states—Texas—went for McCain. </span><span class="Underline">Even with </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">these </span><span class="Underline">long-term demographic strengths, Democratic weaknesses are manifest</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>Continuing economic distress<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> among large segments of the American public, </span><span class="Underline">coupled </span>with<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>perceived inability of<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>Obama<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> administration’s policies </span>to spark real recovery, has coalesced into serious doubts<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> about Democratic stewardship of the economy. In August 2011, </span><span class="Underline">Gallup reported record low public approval of</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> President </span><span class="Underline">Obama’s handling of the econ</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">omy, </span><span class="Underline">with barely</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> one-quarter (</span><span class="Underline">26 percent</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span><span class="Underline">approving </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">of the president’s performance on this key indicator. </span>No president<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the past 50 years </span>has been re-elected with unemployment as high as<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">it is </span>today<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Historically, </span><span class="Underline">administrations with unemployment problems have seem them mitigated with significant employment change</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ahead of an election. But </span>given that the C<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ongressional </span>B<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">udget </span>O<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ffice </span>is<span class="Underline"> currently </span>projecting unemployment to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> average</span>8.7<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> percent in 2012, </span>that doesnot appear to be in the offing<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—</span>unless<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of course </span>there are new measures to stimulate jobs and growth<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Such measures face difficult prospects given the stated position of House Republicans. What are the strengths and weaknesses of Republicans going into 2012?</span><span class="Underline"> Republicans </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">continue to </span><span class="Underline">hold strong advantages when the voting electorate is</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> older, more conservative, and </span><span class="Underline">less diverse</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> than the overall population. As the 2010 election highlights, Republicans continue to hold strong advantages when the voting electorate is older, more conservative, and less diverse than the overall population. </span>Democrats suffered one of the largest electoral defeats<span class="Underline"> on record last year</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, ceding control of the House of Representatives to the Republican Party after regaining the majority just four years earlier. Republicans gained 63 House seats in the 2010 election, overperforming by about 10 seats what would have been expected on the basis of the popular vote split—approximately 52 per- cent Republican to 45 percent Democratic. The </span><span class="Underline">Republican vote was efficiently distributed to produce Republican victories</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, especially in the Rust Belt states and in contested southern states such as Virginia and Florida. The Republican gain of 63 seats was the best post-World War II seat gain by either party in a midterm election, and only the third time a party gained more than 50 seats since then. </span><span class="Underline">Exit-poll data </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">from 2010 </span><span class="Underline">showed</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that </span>independent voters, white working-class voters, seniors, and men broke heavily against the Democrats due to the economy<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Similarly, </span><span class="Underline">turnout levels were</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span><span class="Underline">unusually low in communities of color and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> among </span><span class="Underline">young voters</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and unusually high among seniors, whites, and conservatives, thus contributing to a more skewed midterm electorate. The desire to unseat President Obama will likely produce a strong surge of Republican base voters in 2012. If this enthusiasm gap translates into a noticeably more conservative, GOP-leaning electorate than is typical in presidential elections, Republicans may be able to capture several of President Obama’s states from 2008. </span>Republicans maintain ongoing weaknesses<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that will need to be addressed in order to maximize their chances in 2012. The party’s increasing alignment with its most conservative wing and the rising power of Tea Party values and positions within the GOP camp does not translate well to the larger electorate. Thus, the </span>GOP’s ability to capitalize politically on the poor economy will be significantly reduced if<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> their </span>eventual<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> presidential </span>nominee is too closely associated with<span class="Underline"> an </span>extreme anti- statist platformthat is hostile to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> aspects of government that Americans support or a </span>social and cultural agenda<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> outside of the mainstream of public opinion. And even with a possible advantage in voter enthusiasm, the base mobilization strategy employed successfully by President Bush’s campaign in 2004 will be difficult to replicate given demographic shifts since that election and concerns about GOP extremism among more moderate, independent, and nonideological Americans. Heading into 2012, the primary strategic questions will be: </span><span class="Underline">Will</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> President </span><span class="Underline">Obama withstand continued doubts about the economy</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and his approach to recovery? </span><span class="Underline">Will the president hold sufficient support</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> among communities of color, educated whites, Millennials, single women, and seculars </span><span class="Underline">and avoid</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a catastrophic </span><span class="Underline">meltdown among white working-class voters</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">? Conversely, </span><span class="Underline">will Republicans capture voter disenchantment</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> on the economy and offer a credible economic alternative to the president? Will they nominate a candidate who can appeal beyond their older, more conservative, white, evangelical base? Will Democratic apathy and Republican energy make the electorate much more conservative leaning than its underlying demographics would suggest? The remainder of this paper explores these questions in more detail by first examining the demographic and geographic trends that will matter most in 2012 and then exploring what implications these trends might have in terms of Democratic and Republican strategy for next year’s campaign. In brief, here are our key findings. </span><span class="Underline">On the national level, given solid, but not exceptional, performance among minority voters, </span>Obama’s re-election depends on<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> either </span>holding<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> his </span>2008 white college-graduate support<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in which case he can survive a landslide defeat of 2010 proportions among white working-class voters, </span>or<span class="Underline"> holding his </span>slippage among both groups to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> around </span>2004 levels<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in which case he can still squeak out a victory. Conversely, if Republicans can cut significantly into Obama’s white college-graduate support and then replicate the landslide margins they achieved among white working-class voters in 2010, then they are likely to emerge victorious.</span>

This is the only scenario for a Democratic majority
<span class="Underline">Kraushaar 12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Josh Kraushaar, executive editor of National Journal Hotline, former editor of House Race Hotline, former political reporter for Politico, “Working-Class Whites a Barrier to a Democratic House,” National Journal, 6-20-2012,http://www.nationaljournal.com/columns/against-the-grain/working-class-whites-a-barrier-to-a-democratic-house-20120620)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Former House Speaker Tip O’Neill famously remarked that all politics is local. But this year, it’s the rhetoric of John Edwards that rings truer--in assessing the House race landscape, there are indeed two Americas. President Obama believes the way to win a second term is by rallying elements of the party base, but House Democrats trying to take back the majority face the added burden of winning the votes of increasingly disillusioned white working-class voters. When looking at why Republicans are likely to retain their 25-seat majority--The </span>Cook Political Report<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> now </span>says<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">possibility that </span>Republicans will gain seats<span class="Underline"> is </span>greater than<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the possibility </span>Democrats will retake<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the majority--it’s worth keeping the demographic divide in mind. </span>Democrats are likely to<span class="Underline"> run very competitively in suburban swing districts and </span>regain<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a number of </span>seats<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">that they </span>lost<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in 2010. But House Republicans are still putting Democrats on the defensive in rural and working-class confines, threatening to pick up additional seats they didn’t win in the midterm wave. Of The Cook Report’s </span><span class="Underline">19 Republican-held seats ranked as toss-ups</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or leaning the Democrats’ way, at least </span><span class="Underline">11 are in urban or suburban congressional districts</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="Underline">Of</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">11 Democratic-held seats</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in play, </span><span class="Underline">most are working-class districts</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or contain significant rural populations. Democrats are well positioned to pick up seats in the Chicago suburbs (Reps. Joe Walsh/Robert Dold), Denver (Rep. Mike Coffman), and around Las Vegas (Rep. Joe Heck), but could give nearly as many seats back in areas spanning from working-class southwest Pennsylvania (Rep. Mark Critz), coal-producing southern Illinois (retiring Rep. Jerry Costello), rural Little Dixie (retiring Rep. Dan Boren of Oklahoma) and the expansive countryside of upstate and western New York (Reps. Bill Owens/Kathy Hochul). This isn’t a trivial matter. </span>If Democrats struggle<span class="Underline"> to broaden their brand, </span>they will need to<span class="Underline"> thoroughly </span>dominate<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the </span><span class="Underline">Democratic-trending </span>suburbs to win back control<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In 2010, the National Republican Congressional Committee focused on largely white, conservative districts held by veteran Democrats as the gateway to a majority, and succeeded beyond their expectations. A </span><span class="Underline">GOP-dominated redistricting process and untimely retirements</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> from Blue Dog members, such as Boren and Rep. Heath Shuler, </span><span class="Underline">have offered</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> up </span><span class="Underline">fresh opportunities to go on the offensive</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For a telltale sign of how far </span>Democratic fortunes have fallen with working-class voters<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, just listen to Critz, who sounded like a Republican in rebuking President Obama after his Ohio jobs speech last week. “President </span><span class="Underline">Obama and others</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in Washington </span><span class="Underline">need to realize</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that </span><span class="Underline">we cannot spend our way to prosperity</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” he said. As Thomas Edsall noted in The New York Times on Sunday, “The </span><span class="Underline">correlation between support from working-class whites and Democratic victory suggests</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">party takes a great risk when it downplays the importance of this segment </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">with the electorate.” While the </span>white working-class<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> share of the vote is declining, it </span>makes up a disproportionate share of voters in battleground House districts<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. When Bill Clinton headed his party’s ticket in 1992, Democrats carried 52.7 percent of the white noncollege House vote; in 2010, that number plummeted to 34.7 percent. </span>On the national level, Obama can get reelected<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> even if he loses badly with working-class whites, thanks to the rapidly diversifying electorate. </span><span class="Underline">But </span>at the House level, Democrats will have trouble<span class="Underline"> forging a majority without them.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Consider this: After redistricting, there are now an outright majority of 221 congressional districts with a Cook PVI rating of R+3 or greater. The </span><span class="Underline">next Democratic House majority</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (if it occurs this decade) </span><span class="Underline">will have to be built on</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">backs of Democrats who hold an appeal </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">well beyond the base. That will be all the more difficult, thanks to an increasingly polarized Congress. That </span><span class="Underline">reality is making things difficult for Democrats to gain a net of 25 seats</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to regain the majority. On the top of Democratic target lists are vulnerable Republicans representing white working-class districts, such as Rust Belt freshmen Reps. Bill Johnson and Jim Renacci (Ohio), Sean Duffy (Wisconsin), and Dan Benishek (Michigan). Democrats believe the members’ votes for Rep. Paul Ryan’s budget give their opponents a potent line of attack on entitlements. But </span>complicating<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> their </span>prospects are Obama’s weak approval numbers, which<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in those districts </span>are <span class="Underline">considerably </span>worse than<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> his middling</span>national approval ratings<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Meanwhile, in the redistricting process, Republicans paid careful attention to shoring up the districts of vulnerable suburban Republicans, who regularly faced tough reelection campaigns. Members such as Reps. Steve Stivers (Columbus, Ohio), Steve Chabot (Cincinnati), Jim Gerlach (Philadelphia), Pat Meehan (Philadelphia), Daniel Webster (Orlando), and Kevin Yoder (Kansas City, Kan.) are now favored to win another term. The </span><span class="Underline">gains have largely offset the new opportunities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Democrats have in California and Illinois. The Democrats’ challenge is amplified by Obama’s campaign strategy to design policies appealing to elements of his base, but which offer diminishing returns to down-ballot Democrats. </span><span class="Underline">By </span>ordering<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> his administration </span>to stopdeporting illegal immigrants<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> who came to the country as children, </span><span class="Underline">Obama </span>illustrated<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>importance of mobilizing<span class="Underline"> the Hispanic </span>vote. But many<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Hispanic voters </span>are gerrymandered into safe<span class="Underline"> Democratic House </span>seats<span class="Underline">, making</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the congressional </span><span class="Underline">payoff less fruitful</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The president’s </span>push to help college students<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> pay off their loans </span><span class="Underline">was designed to help him get</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> them to the </span><span class="Underline">polls, but </span>most<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> large college </span>campuses are in noncompetitive seats<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And his </span><span class="Underline">support </span>for gay marriage helped him with fundraising, but<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> it </span>did little to move<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>Democratic needle<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in swing districts. As the election draws closer, expect to see many Democratic candidates in working-class districts balance their loyalty to the president against the necessity of doing whatever it takes to win. Because what’s good for the goose isn’t necessarily good for the gander.</span>

Single party control is the only way to break political gridlock
<span class="Underline">Spaeth 12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Michael Spaeth, citing congressional scholars Thomas Mann and Norman Ornstein, “Michael Spaeth: Continued gridlock,” The Michigan Daily, 7-22-2012, [[http://www.michigandaily.com/opinion/michael-spaeth-continued-gridlock?page=0,0]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Even though the Democratic and Republican National Conventions are over a month away, there’s </span><span class="Underline">little doubt that</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the 2012 </span><span class="Underline">general election is already underway</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Pundits are constantly talking about the latest polls, electoral math and the faults of each campaign. Yet </span><span class="Underline">in the midst of </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the breathless </span><span class="Underline">media coverage</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the daily back-and-forth of the presidential campaign, political </span><span class="Underline">commentators aren’t emphasizing </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">one very important detail: no matter who wins the presidential election, th</span><span class="Underline">e </span>gridlock that’s currently preventing pretty much anything from getting done<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in Washington will continue — or even worsen — </span>unless one party gains control<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the White House and large majorities in both houses of Congress. The </span>Republicans<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the 112th Congress </span>are<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> commonly </span><span class="Underline">bl</span>amed for Congress’ inability to get<span class="Underline"> any meaningful </span>legislation passed<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In an opinion piece for the Washington Post, congressional scholars Thomas </span><span class="Underline">Mann and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Norman </span><span class="Underline">Ornstein observed</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, “</span>When one party moves this far<span class="Underline"> from the mainstream, </span>it makes it nearly impossible for<span class="Underline"> the </span>political system to deal constructively<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> with the country’s challenges.” This statement deserves some consideration because, as NPR noted in April, Mann and Ornstein “have been in Washington for more than 40 years — and they’re renowned for their carefully nonpartisan positions.” Ornstein also told NPR that </span>since<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> President </span>Obama was inaugurated<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, “</span><span class="Underline">when </span>we did get action, half the political process viewed it as illegit<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">imate, tried to undermine its implementation and moved to repeal it.” For example, Congress holds many symbolic votes, which are a blatant waste of time and money. </span><span class="Underline">Their time</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> — along with taxpayers’ dollars — </span><span class="Underline">should be spent on </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">actually </span><span class="Underline">finding solutions</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to our country’s problems. Shortly after the Supreme Court ruled that the Affordable Care Act was constitutional, the Republican-controlled House voted to repeal the law, despite the fact that the Democrat-controlled Senate definitely wouldn’t repeal the law and that President Obama would veto the repeal if it actually passed both houses of Congress. It was the </span>33rd time<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>House tried to repeal<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> all or parts of President </span><span class="Underline">Obama’s </span>health care<span class="Underline"> law</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. CBS News reported that </span><span class="Underline">these </span>efforts have “taken<span class="Underline"> up at least </span>80 hours<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> on the House floor” </span>and<span class="Underline"> have cost taxpayers “a little under </span>$50 million<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">” total. </span>//No wonder Congress’ approval ratings are at historic lows//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. But </span>//don’t expect these kinds of tactics to end if Democrats lose control of either the White House or the Senate//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. After nearly four years of relentless Republican obstruction, I highly doubt the Democrats are going to conclude that it’s time to let the Republicans do whatever they want now that they control a majority of the governing bodies in Washington. Democrats will instead do everything in their power to block Republican legislation from becoming law. As long as Democrats control the White House, the Senate or the House, the gridlock will continue.</span>

That's key to foreign policy effectiveness - prevents instability and global conflict
<span class="Underline">Flournoy 9-4 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Michèle A. Flournoy, former undersecretary of defense for policy, “Sustaining American Leadership Abroad,” in A Symposium: Democratic Advice for Obama's Second Term, The Wall Street Journal, 9-4-2012,http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390444914904577619742199611900.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In a second term, President </span>Obama<span class="Underline"> should double down on the big national security bets</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> he made in his first term. He </span>should continue to pursue<span class="Underline"> a </span>policy of international engagement to sustain<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">U.S. </span>global leadership and strengthen<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> our </span>alliances<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and partnerships. From day one, this </span><span class="Underline">president understood that real leadership</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the 21st century </span><span class="Underline">is about catalyzing effective international action in response to shared challenges</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. He has exercised that leadership repeatedly, from NATO's intervention in Libya to the 49-nation coalition fighting alongside us in Afghanistan. A re-elected President </span><span class="Underline">Obama </span>should continue<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> his </span><span class="Underline">laser-like </span>focus on disrupting, dismantling and defeating al Qaeda<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span><span class="Underline">denying it safe haven</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in places like Afghanistan, Pakistan and Yemen. From the raid that killed Osama bin Laden to continuing strikes, </span><span class="Underline">U.S. </span>pressure has decimated al Qaeda's leadership,<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">forcing them to focus more on their own survival than on plots against us. This strategy, </span><span class="Underline">along with building</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">capabilities of key</span>//c//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ounter</span>//t//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">errorism </span><span class="Underline">partners</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (such as Yemen, Pakistan and the Philippines) </span><span class="Underline">and reducing</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">risk of "loose WMD</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," </span><span class="Underline">should continue until al Qaeda no longer threatens America</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The president should also implement the transition and drawdown in Afghanistan as planned, while continuing to press for an inclusive, Afghan-led political process to end the conflict. Although recent incidents involving Afghan trainees attacking their NATO trainers are certainly cause for concern, </span><span class="Underline">overall </span>plans<span class="Underline"> remain on track </span>to<span class="Underline"> transfer security responsibility</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to the Afghans in 2014 </span><span class="Underline">and bring more than </span>a decade of war to a responsible end<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The president </span>should continue<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> his strategic </span>rebalancing toward<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the</span>Asia<span class="Underline">n-Pacific</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> region. No other part of the world will have more impact on America's prosperity in the coming decades. </span><span class="Underline">As</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">power dynamics</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the region </span><span class="Underline">shift with </span>the rise of China and India<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the </span>U.S. has a critical role to<span class="Underline"> play in </span>maintain<span class="Underline">ing </span>stability<span class="Underline"> and underwriting an international order </span>in which disputes are resolved without<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the use of </span>force, human rights are protected, and trade and commerce flow freely<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Even as we focus more on Asia, the </span>U.S. must<span class="Underline"> remain fully engaged in the vital </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">yet volatile </span><span class="Underline">M</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">iddle </span><span class="Underline">E</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ast in order </span><span class="Underline">to </span>prevent Iran's acquisition of nuclear weapons<span class="Underline">, </span>safeguard Israel's security, and support long-term stability<span class="Underline"> by encouraging the reforms that the people of the region deserve</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. To be successful, however, </span>he will need bipartisan coop<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">eration </span>from Congress<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. It is </span><span class="Underline">imperative that we move beyond </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the </span>political paralysis<span class="Underline"> that </span>has fed<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a false and dangerous narrative of </span>U.S. decline<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> abroad </span>and has kept our nation from<span class="Underline"> making the investments necessary to accelerate </span>job creation and economic growth<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Ultimately, any president's ability to lead and to safeguard our national security will depend on our ability to forge a postelection consensus on a pragmatic way forward here at home.</span>



Decline in leadership leads to multiple threats and scenarios for conflict
**Hirsh 11** (Michael Hirsh, former foreign editor and chief correspondent for Newsweek, “The End of the American Interlude,” <span style="color: #001de0;">[[http://www.nationaljournal.com/magazine/the-end-of-the-american-interlude-20111215]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">Welcome to the future. What we are witnessing, at G-20 meetings and elsewhere, is the emergence of a leaderless world that is dangerously adrift. Often foretold in books such as Niall Ferguson’s Civilization: The West and the Rest, the phenomenon is now occurring on the ground. And not just in the economic realm: NATO’s recent intervention in Libya was the alliance’s first major military effort conceived and led by Europeans. Meanwhile, </span><span class="Underline">troops are leaving Iraq, the last large-scale unilateral exercise of American hard power that the world is likely to see for a long time</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">, if ever again. </span><span class="Underline">A campaign that began wishfully as “shock and awe,” a demonstration of America’s righteous might, had little impact abroad.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> (The Arab Spring took inspiration from a self-immolating fruit seller, not a democratically elected Iraqi parliament.) </span>The U<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>remains,<span class="Underline"> technically, </span>the world’s only superpower.<span class="Underline"> But </span>in the past decade, we have spent trillions of dollars deploying this vast military superiority—and to what end?<span class="Underline"> Neither Iraq nor Afghanistan offers a clear victory. </span>Mostly what has been achieved<span class="Underline">, it seems, </span>is to expose our economic and military vulnerabilities<span class="Underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">The success of insurgents in both countries demystified U.S. power in the eyes of the world. “Whatever Washington thought it wanted when it invaded Iraq in 2003, it was not the establishment of Shia religious parties with links to Iran in power in Baghdad,” wrote one British critic, Patrick Cockburn of The Independent, this month. “Similarly, in Afghanistan, a surge in U.S. troop numbers and the expenditure of $100 billion a year has not led to the defeat of 25,000 mostly untrained Taliban fighters,” he wrote. “Great powers depend on a reputation for invincibility and are wise not to put this too often to the test. The British Empire never quite recovered in the eyes of the world from the gargantuan effort it had to make to defeat a few tens of thousand Boer farmers.” The problem is much bigger than the United States. </span><span class="Underline">If Washington is no longer the agenda-setter it once was, can a leaderless world continue to enjoy peace and stability? </span>Can the “international system” as we know it today survive without its father in the driver’s seat?<span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> The question is as important for America’s future as, say, détente versus confrontation was during the Cold War, or isolationism versus engagement during the rise of fascism. “I don’t know how this is going to play out over time,” says a senior U.S. official who helps direct the U.S. agenda at G-20 meetings. “The Europeans have quite adroitly used the relative international diminution of stature of the U.S. in this crisis as way to get themselves back in the driver’s seat.” But Europe has its own existential crisis, which means that it, too, is unlikely to lead</span><span class="Underline">. </span>If history is any guide, a global system of open trade and peaceful relations cannot survive under such conditions<span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">. Through most of recorded history, and in every region of the globe, </span>an international power vacuum has meant a ruthless jostling for military might, empire- and alliance-building, and sometimes worse. The fall of Rome ushered in the Dark Ages<span class="Underline">. </span>The Congress of Vienna <span class="Underline">that imposed European order after the Napoleonic wars </span>broke down<span class="Underline"> in terrible conflicts by the late 19th century. </span>The end of European empire precipitated World War I.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> The G-20 was created in 1999 and ignored for a decade. It won a battlefield promotion during the financial crisis. Some experts, such as Princeton University’s John Ikenberry in his new book Liberal Leviathan, argue that </span><span class="Underline">institutions like the United Nations and the World Trade Organization—and the overall benefits of trade, democracy, and openness—are now so well entrenched that the global system can prevail on its own.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> In rebuttal, political “realists” cite the overnight demise of the pre-World War I era of globalization, a halcyon period of free trade that had seemed almost as promising as today’s U.S.-designed system. The skeptics point to catastrophically wrong predictions like that of Norman Angell, whose 1911 book, The Great Illusion, argued that </span><span class="Underline">economic interdependence would prevent another major war.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> Indeed, a similar breakdown of international order might already have occurred if Washington had reverted to its traditional isolationism after World War II. </span>A resurgent Japan might have become a nuclear power and competed against China for regional hegemony. Europe would have devolved into age-old wars and rivalries<span class="Underline">. Lacking the annealing structure of the postwar Atlantic alliance, the Continent might never have achieved monetary union. </span>Russia would have bid for Eurasian dominance<span class="Underline">, as it has since the 17th century. Most important of all, t</span>he trading system, which the United States virtually reinvented after World War II, would<span class="Underline"> almost certainly have </span>broken down, killing globalization in its infancy<span class="Underline">, reinforcing all the above developments. </span>A major war of some kind would have been much more likely—and, despite the nuclear era, it might not have remained cold<span class="Underline">. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">SIGNS OF DECAY Already signs are emerging that, absent American leadership, the seams are unraveling. Recent G-20 outcomes have been close to incoherent: The world’s major governments didn’t just fail to devise a coordinated strategy for avoiding double-dip recession. </span><span class="Underline">In Washington and European capitals, they have embraced policies (for varying domestic political reasons) that most economists argue are the opposite of what is needed. They are pursuing austerity, in other words, when the world needs a concerted stimulus</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">. The 50-year effort to strengthen rules for open trade—so integral to global stability since the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade began in 1947—is also badly adrift; the 10-year-old Doha Round of talks has been at an impasse since negotiations broke down in 2008. In fact, the only real evidence of global economic coordination in recent months has come from unelected central bankers, as seen in the coordinated rate cut of early December. And while Europe’s economic troubles will probably have more impact than any other factor on America’s economic health (and on the 2012 presidential contest), senior U.S. economic officials have found that they possess just one voice among many—and not even a major one—trying to bring the 17 eurozone countries and 27 European Union nations to consensus. America also seems helpless to affect the outcome of the revolutions in Egypt, Syria, Tunisia, and Yemen. At first, these seemed consonant with the spread of democracy that Washington has always favored. But now, if any outside force is shaping events, it’s the autocratic and brutally repressive regime in Saudi Arabia. Why? Because U.S. and European actions are being guided, more and more, by the decisions of the Gulf Cooperation Council and the Arab League, both of which are ever more dominated by the Saudis. As columnist David Ignatius wrote recently in The Washington Post, </span><span class="Underline">“</span>Saudi Arabia has<span class="Underline"> increasingly </span>replaced the Un<span class="Underline">ited States </span>as the key<span class="Underline"> status quo </span>power in the Middle<span class="Underline"> East, a role that seems likely to expand even more in coming years as the Saudis boost their military and economic spending.”</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> And a top Saudi prince recently told U.S. officials that Riyadh wouldn’t depend on U.S. security reassurance in the region, saying that the threat from Iran and Israel means that Saudi Arabia must consider building its own bomb. “They no longer trust us,” says a former senior U.S. official who visited the kingdom in December. Russia, too, is in turmoil, and all the world can do is watch, wait, and hope. Twenty years ago this Christmas, when the Soviet Union (more or less) peacefully disbanded, U.S. economic advisers almost immediately began dispensing advice on what was then called democratic transition, and the Russian elite listened eagerly. Now, </span><span class="Underline">nuclear </span>Russia appears on the verge of another revolution<span class="Underline">, and Vladimir Putin is telling the United States to keep its nose out. Most unnerving of all,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> perhaps, </span><span class="Underline">is the rising global role of China. </span>Beijing could choose to be a rogue power that routinely flouts trade rules, manipulates its currency, and steals intellectual property—leading to an ultimate breakdown of the global trading system<span class="Underline">. U.S. officials for years have pressed Beijing to become a responsible “stakeholder,” but the Chinese may have no incentive to listen if that system’s very survival is in doubt.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> These problems will shape the world in which our grandchildren grow up. </span><span class="Underline">Yes, </span>the U<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>has no military rival, even on the horizon<span class="Underline">. Maybe, 50 years on, the world map won’t look very different</span>.<span class="Underline"> It could be, in other words, a world of occasional wars and political flare-ups, but one where trade and international relations continue largely as they are, especially if the United States and Europe stay on the same page. Or, </span>given today’s r<span class="Underline">udderless </span>environment and current trends, it could<span class="Underline"> also </span>become a much more violent, uncertain world with rival, duopolistic spheres of influence run by Washington and Beijing. Or it could even become an ugly multipolar world dominated by “the United States of Europe,”<span class="Underline"> Moscow, Washington, and Beijing—</span>one where<span class="Underline"> vicious </span>mercantilist trade and<span class="Underline"> occasional proxy </span>wars<span class="Underline"> (or something far worse) </span>define the contest<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> THE ESSENTIAL NATION? </span><span class="Underline">Great powers typically decline very slowly. It took years before the world realized that Great Britain was an imperial corpse in the mid-20th century, sapped of its strength by two world wars. In 1947, a quick passing of the baton took place. The United States would now fill Britain’s role and become the central, stabilizing power in the West.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> The rest of the world, perhaps, didn’t realize how lucky it was to have such an orderly and seamless handoff. The Cold War also ended quietly (though many had expected a big bang). For four decades, two ideas of social and political organization waged a titanic battle with apocalypse at stake. Then—on Dec. 25, 1991—Mikhail Gorbachev officially handed over his powers to Boris Yeltsin, and the Soviet Union ended its existence. </span><span class="Underline">The United States became, by accession, the world’s “hyperpower,”</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> as French Foreign Minister Hubert Védrine described it at the time, reaching rhetorically for some new level of awesomeness not quite covered by the term “superpower.” The ensuing 20 years at first seemed a time of triumph for the United States. After all, it had so clearly outperformed the Soviets, outspent them, and exposed their system as an ideological and economic fraud. Washington did some things right: Coaxing most of the former Soviet bloc states and allies, and many East Asian nations, into the Western system. But we never developed a new strategy. We tried “democratic enlargement” (Bill Clinton), “assertive multilateralism” (Madeline Albright), “the Bush Doctrine” (don’t ask), and now Obama’s no-doctrine presidency. Instead, this 20-year era has been a kind of lost generation of diplomacy and errant war—a time, mostly, of confusion. </span>No one calls the U<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>a hyperpower now<span class="Underline">. Given the paralyzed state of American politics; the indefinite state of indebtedness (especially to China); and the “rise of the rest,” especially China, India, and Brazil, this era is looking more like an interlude.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> The British maintained their imperial power for two centuries through a savvy (and somewhat ruthless) system of taxes and colonization, but Americans spent recklessly in the service of ideology—both through supply-side-inspired tax cuts and neoconservative pretensions about the projection of American power—and we stopped paying attention to how we were financing it all. Partly as a result, partly because they are enjoying their own success within the system, other nations have stopped taking our advice very seriously. It’s not that the so-called Beijing consensus is replacing the Washington consensus. Instead, there simply is no new consensus out there. One problem we have in sketching out a future course is that no one has really done a good job of defining the present system—in other words, how deeply entrenched the international system is in our world, or how it might differ from the past. Like Princeton’s Ikenberry, I have argued (in a 2003 book, At War With Ourselves: Why America Is Squandering Its Chance to Build a Better World) that the current network tying together markets, governments, and peoples is far broader and deeper than any of its predecessors, including what existed before World War I. </span><span class="Underline">Today, for the first time ever, most of the world is democratic, and most nations embrace similar ideas of open-market capitalism. In the security realm, the powers that could cause America the greatest headaches—China and Russia—are motivated to keep at least one foot inside the system because they’re both proud permanent members of the U.N. Security Council. No country, not even would-be rogues such as Iran, has yet found a way around these iron operating laws: In order to be influential or powerful, a nation must be prosperous; in order to be prosperous, it must engage the international system of open trade (rather than conquer territory, as it might once have done); and in order to engage, even countries with dramatically different political and social systems, like America and China, must act according to the set of norms governing trade and conflict (if not yet, sadly, human rights). There seems to be no other choice. So the system has an internal logic that should give it natural life outside of U.S. dominance. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">As Obama put it on a trip to China in 2009, the American and Chinese economies are so integrated that to disentangle them would mean a kind of “mutual assured destruction.” This is all to the good. But many political scientists insist that American global power remains the essential glue to this system. Charles Kupchan, a former Clinton administration official teaching at Georgetown University, argues that it’s almost impossible to keep the rules of the world system intact without an enforcer that guarantees global security. Until now, that has been American hegemony, not least because the U.S. has used its military dominance to amass scores of allies around the world. But how supportive will those allies be at a time of waning U.S. power, with China and other rising nations buying their own influence? Perhaps no better augury of this future world exists than the G-20 meetings. The Group of 20 was created in 1999 by Europe and Canada and largely ignored for the next decade. But Beijing, which never wanted to join the U.S.-dominated G-8, found a home there because it seemed to be a more level field, with more natural allies among developing countries. “The formation of the G-20 is a Catch-22 of sorts, in the sense that the advanced industrialized nations had to enlarge the circle because the post-World War II order was anachronistic,” Kupchan says. “But when you’ve got 20 countries around the table, that’s a lot of cooks in the kitchen.” Predictably, the G-20 has become a cacophonous convocation with no conclusion. For decades, American leaders at international gatherings have been first among equals. At the United Nations, NATO, and the WTO, Washington has usually enjoyed a baked-in-the-cake dominance, at least in setting the agenda. The president of the United States acted as a kind of informal president of the world—the quarterback of a sort of open-ended global game of nations and interest groups, whether the issue is free trade, geopolitics, or terrorism. This happens less and less. “It’s relatively hard to have a conversation,” the senior U.S. official says. “People take stylized positions that make it tougher to get a consensus agenda.” But the G-20 won a battlefield promotion during the financial crisis of 2008, when government leaders elevated it by common consent to semiannual summit status—because it included China, South Korea, and other important creditor nations—and turned it into the world’s preeminent economic forum, eclipsing the G-8. This unwieldy group came of age amid U.S. weakness and culpability, with Wall Street as the chief culprit in the Great Recession. As a result, U.S. proposals have, if anything, gotten less attention because they emanate from Washington. At Cannes, for example, German Chancellor Angela Merkel quite publicly repudiated the Obama administration’s idea for putting hard bands around trade imbalances. “To set political limits on trade surpluses and deficits is neither economically justified nor politically appropriate,” she said—although a year later Merkel herself would propose, in an effort to save the euro, “political” limits on budgets of the E.U. nations. Not coincidentally, that plan appeared to emerge without any American input at all. DARK FUTURE Of course, some prominent thinkers, including Obama, still dispute the idea of American decline. Like every other president, he calls America the “greatest nation on earth” as blithely as he breathes. Europeans and many East Asians—especially those thinking about the rise of China—say that U.S. power is as essential as it has ever been. Some longtime scholars of the international system, such as former Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg, say that the United States has staying power. “If you unpack it, the favorable views of the U.S. in Latin America are at historically high levels now,” he says. “Views of the United States in East Asia are extremely high. Views of the United States in Russia and Europe are extremely high, in historical terms.” </span><span class="Underline">Although it’s true that a deficit-hampered America is spending a huge amount on defense—more than the rest of the world combined—it may pose no problem. “</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">Our share of global defense spending has risen, but it’s still a very minor share of [gross domestic product] so as long as the economy is growing,” Steinberg says. “The country has sustained dramatically higher defense spending than this. If we’re under 4 percent of GDP for defense spending, that’s sustainable over an indefinite period.” </span><span class="Underline">So far, </span>none of the major powers<span class="Underline">—the European Union, Japan, Russia, even China—</span>has orchestrated a major military buildup in a bid for global power<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> Scholars going back to Thucydides argue that economic power inevitably tries to convert to influence on the world stage. So theoretically, countries like China, Japan, and new hybrid structures like the E.U. should be trying to convert their economic strength into military and strategic power. They all occasionally make noises about doing so, but their defense spending has remained steady and, even in China, not terribly aggressive. All of this has helped the global system survive terrorist attacks (which didn’t provoke a clash of civilizations) and a slew of financial crises (which didn’t herald the return of protectionism). But the United States will find it extremely difficult to exercise its military dominance in the future, whether in counterinsurgency wars or more-traditional ones. Inside the Pentagon, officials are debating how to handle the rise of China, and the focus is shifting from Army-led counterinsurgency toward an Air Force and Navy kind of war-fighting strategy called “AirSea Battle.” The United States is not likely to ever again be as dominant as it was during the brief period of “smart bombs,” when the world stood in awe: Long-range and precision missiles are being commoditized, and the Chinese are developing their own. U.S. strategists, in response, are refining a doctrine of “assured access” to East Asia that means Americans would have to take the fight, in a hypothetical war, farther and farther inland in China to prevent those long-range missiles from being used. But critics say that’s an impossible task, especially with the budget knife now hitting the Pentagon. </span>It is a standoff that could leave the world<span class="Underline">, again, </span>without a<span class="Underline"> clear leader or even a stable </span>balance of power<span class="Underline">. Meanwhile, </span>China is throwing its weight around Asia, seeking to strong-arm Australia and Southeast Asian nations into alignment on geopolitical issues. Russia bullies members of the old Soviet sphere by punishing them with gas shutoffs or by supporting pro-Russian separatists<span class="Underline"> inside their borders. </span>In the Middle East, U.S. power is declining more rapidly than in other places, inspiring countries such as Saudi Arabia and Iran, vying for influence with Israel, to develop their own nuclear weapons. In an environment with no strong leadership on global trade and integration—where mistrust and new destabilizers such as cyberwarfare are rising—conflict is much more likely.

==1AC HSR - Georgetown and Scrant0n (NOTE - Kense was with Aasta and Aasta was the 2A - if you want aff cites, you should email me (Tasha) so that I can bother Aasta to do it.)== 

=Advantage 1 - Economy= 

Economy is failing – high unemployment rates, borrowing rates and exports
<span class="Cite">Mutikani11/7</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">/12 [Lucia, Journalist and correspondent for Reuters, //“Election over, Obama to face same weak economy”//</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Reuters, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/07/us-usa-campaign-economy-idUSBRE8A60OO20121107=]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"Obama will have to nail down some of these fiscal issues in order to get the economy moving quickly," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics in West Chester, Pennsylvania. "If he is unable to do that, we're going to be stuck."</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span>world's largest economy has struggled to achieve <span class="Underline">anything like </span>strong growth since <span class="Underline">climbing out of </span>the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> deep 2007-</span>09 recession<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Annual </span>g<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ross </span>d<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">omestic </span>p<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">roduct </span>expanded<span class="Underline"> by an average of </span>just 2.1 percent<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> over the last two years. </span>Only<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">about </span>4.5 million<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the 8.7 million </span>jobs<span class="Underline"> lost</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> during the downturn </span>have been recouped<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. About 23 million Americans are either unemployed or underemployed, many of them having to settle for part-time work.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Not only is </span>government borrowing at<span class="Underline"> an unsustainably </span>high rate, with a debt<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> now towering over $16 trillion, but </span><span class="Underline">the </span>recession left lasting scars on the labor market that is likely to keep unemployment elevated<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for years to come.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> What's more, </span>growth is slowing overseas, crimping U.S. exports<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> POLITICAL GRIDLOCK REMAINS</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> While Obama's Democrats retained control of the Senate, Republicans kept their grip on the House of Representatives, maintaining Washington's political gridlock.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> During his first term, </span><span class="Underline">Obama was unable to bridge the divide between the two parties</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> over how to trim the budget deficit </span><span class="Underline">and there is little to suggest it will be easier</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> this time around.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> He has called for slashing the deficit by more than $4 trillion over a 10-year period through raising taxes for wealthy Americans and cutting defense spending, two steps that are unpopular with Republicans.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "</span><span class="Underline">Dealing with partisanship and gridlock in Congress will remain a major challenge</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, today's election result certainly does not make the situation any easier," said Harm Bandholz, chief U.S. economist UniCredit Research in New York.</span>

Failure to jumpstart America’s knowledge-based economy ensures permanent decline
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Florida</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> 20</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">05</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> [Richard, Senior editor at the Atlantic, American urban studies theorist. Florida's focus is on social and economic theory. He is currently a professor and head of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto. //“The Greatest Competitive Threat of Our Time”// The Globalist. September 8. http://www.theglobalist.com/printStoryId.aspx?StoryId=4719=]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The current competitive threat is similar to the world-shattering economic battle between the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany set in motion by the Industrial Revolution — out of which the United States eventually emerged as the world's economic superpower.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> How to adapt to the realities of this shifting system? U.S. leadership in both political parties must get beyond the myth of the United States as an unassailable superpower.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> But this one is different — very different. And that’s what makes it so perplexing and hard to grapple with. </span><span class="Underline">Competition today is not limited to</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> one, two or even </span><span class="Underline">several great powers</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Rather, </span><span class="Underline">it comes from many places </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">simultaneously, a</span><span class="Underline">nd is harder to hone in on precisely because it is so diffuse</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The most likely scenario is not that one nation will overtake the United States as the dominant power on the global stage, but that the </span><span class="Underline">world stage will see the rise of many more significant players</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Who’s next?</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> In fact, </span>no single country<span class="Underline"> in the world </span>is ready to emerge as the singular great power<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> — not China, India, Japan, Germany, Canada, Australia or any of the Scandinavian nations.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> While each of these has certain strengths and advantages, all suffer from weaknesses as well.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Scouting the candidates</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Canada and Australia are relatively open societies but lack the strong technology base and market size to dominate the global arena.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>Whether the U<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>declines or rebounds depends<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> entirely </span>on<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its </span>willingness to restore<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its </span>creativity and openness to full capacity<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The Scandinavian nations are centers of tolerance and self-expression and have solid technology infrastructures, but are simply too small to become true world powers.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> India and China have the market size and potential technology and human capital base, but are far from having the kind of openness and tolerance required to attract talent on the world stage.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Listen to logic</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Thinking only in terms of the rise and fall of great powers, though, blinds us to a more likely scenario. </span><span class="Underline">We </span>shouldn’t assume an impending shift in power<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> from the United States to a single emerging great power. The </span><span class="Underline">logic of globalization goes against this.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span class="Underline">Corporations </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">arenow free to locate where they want, </span><span class="Underline">and </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">more importantly, </span><span class="Underline">people can move freely to places that offer opportunity</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, freedom and the ability to build the lives they choose.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The global mosaic</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The mobility of people is perhaps the most significant facet of the modem global economy — more important than the rise of new technology or the mobility of capital.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Members of the creative class vote with their feet, looking for the city, region or country that offers the most opportunity and best reflects their values.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span class="Underline">In such an environment</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, it is much more likely that many places will gain particular advantages and that the shape of </span><span class="Underline">the </span>global economy will grow more complicated and multi-polar<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> It will likely be a mosaic of competitors, each with unique abilities to attract and mobilize talent.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span><span class="Underline">key for the </span>U<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates, then, </span><span class="Underline">is to design a strategy that enables it to prosper in this emerging multi-polar world</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Remaining competitive</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> To do so</span><span class="Underline">, it </span>must bolster<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its great universities and science and </span><span class="Underline">technology </span>assets<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, cultivate new creative </span><span class="Underline">industry sectors, </span>prepare<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its people </span>for the future<span class="Underline"> and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, most of all, </span><span class="Underline">remain</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> an </span><span class="Underline">open</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> society.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> But much of what the United States is now doing only serves to undercut its position. For decades, the United States succeeded at attracting and growing talented people because of its creative ecosystem — a densely interwoven fabric of institutions, individuals and economic and social rights.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Branching out</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>//Attracting people does not just happen//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> — it depends on the care and feeding of the organizations and people that make up this ecosystem. </span>//Perturb it or damage it in small ways and, like any ecosystem, it can die.//<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> No single country in the world is ready to emerge as the singular great power — not China, India, Japan, Germany, Canada, Australia or any of the Scandinavian nations.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span><span class="Underline">problem is that we don’t yet fully understand how this ecosystem works.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> We don’t know which fauna feed off which flora, and what kinds of balances are in place.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The ecosystem was easy enough to understand when we assumed it was premised on the one simple credo — economic self-interest.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Now, though, the increased mobility of talent has shattered our conceptions of national and even personal boundaries.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Face the facts</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> How to adapt to the realities of this shifting ecosystem? </span><span class="Underline">America must</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> start by </span><span class="Underline">confront</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ing </span><span class="Underline">the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> hard </span><span class="Underline">fact that it is no longer as unilaterally dominant as it once was</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Peter Drucker argues that U.S. leadership in both political parties, on the left as well as the right, must get beyond the myth of the United States as an unassailable superpower.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> A crowded playing field</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> There are many more players occupying many more niches and competing vigorously on the world stage.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span>//mobility of people is perhaps the most significant facet of the modem global economy//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> — more important than the rise of new technology or the mobility of capital</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> When asked if the United States would lose its economic dominance at any point in the foreseeable future, Drucker replied: “The </span>dominance of the U<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>is already over<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. What is emerging is a world economy of blocs represented by NAFTA, the EU, ASEAN. There’s no one center in this world economy.”</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Rather than a single deathblow, the United States is much more likely to see its dominance eroded by the sting of those thousand cuts.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Global brain drain</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span>U<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>will<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">continue to </span>be squeezed between<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the global talent magnets of </span>Canada, Australia and the Scandinavia<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">n countries, which are developing their technological capabilities, </span><span class="Underline">becoming even more open and tolerant </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and competing effectively for creative people.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Also, the </span><span class="Underline">large emerging economies of </span>India and China<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, who rake in a greater share of low-cost production, </span><span class="Underline">are now competing</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> more </span><span class="Underline">successfully</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for their own talent.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Bouncing back</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Whether the United States suffers a long, slow decline, or rebounds to skillfully navigate this new playing field depends entirely on how willing it is to restore its creativity and openness to full capacity.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “The dominance of the United States is already over. What is emerging is a world economy of blocs represented by NAFTA, the EU, ASEAN. There’s </span>//no one center in this world economy//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Perhaps the most troubling thing is that no one seems aware of the problem and ready and able to carry the ball. The United States today lacks the kind of collective effort that pulled it together during previous times of economic change and transformation.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>Business and government working together got our economy back<span class="Underline"> on track </span>during the New Deal<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> period, the incredible World War II mobilization and the effort to set up a vibrant framework for the postwar economy.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>Business responded vigorously<span class="Underline"> to the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> competitive </span><span class="Underline">threat posed</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a few short decades ago </span><span class="Underline">by Asian and Europea</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">n manufacturers, forming organizations like the Council of Competitiveness.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Meanwhile, the federal government undertook efforts to support greater research and innovation. Where will that thrust come from today?</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Friends and foes</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>Unfortunately<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in recent years the </span>powerful political forces<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> at either end of the spectrum </span><span class="Underline">have tended to </span>widen a right-left chasm<span class="Underline"> that grows less and less navigable and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a </span>dichotomy between materialistic and moralistic values<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that </span>grow<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s more and </span>more false<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> At the same time that truly important issues don’t even get mentioned in the public sphere, the extremes have actually become the status quo.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Creative diaspora</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span>end result is that people grow disillusioned<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> with the political process and choose not to participate. The </span><span class="Underline">leading force for political change</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> — </span><span class="Underline">the </span>creative class<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> — </span>has<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for all intents and purposes </span>opted out<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the political process.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span><span class="Underline">U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="Underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates today lacks the kind of collective effort that pulled it together during previous times of economic change and transformation.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Instead, its </span><span class="Underline">members vote with their feet, looking for the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> city, </span><span class="Underline">region</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or country </span><span class="Underline">that offers the most opportunity</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and best reflects their values.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Here we </span>//confront a deep and insidious tension of the creative age//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Unlike previous dominant classes, such as the working class, members of the creative class have little direct incentive to become involved in conventional politics.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> When they get involved in broader social issues, they are likely to do it in on a local scale or through some alternative way of their own choosing rather than through either of the major political parties.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Face the music</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span><span class="Underline">whole basis of the creative ethos is individual creative pursuit and the shunning of traditional forms</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span><span class="Underline">paradox is that this </span>ethos is not necessarily conducive to<span class="Underline"> the </span>highly political effort<span class="Underline"> needed to bring our new age to the fore</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span>//end result is a gaping vacuum, and nothing to fill it//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. We are faced with the biggest competitiveness crisis in 30 or 40 years — and no leading-edge group to take it on.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Thus the central dilemma of our time: </span><span class="Underline">Even though </span>the creative economy generates vast innovative, wealth-creating and productive promise, left to its own devicesit will neither realize that promise nor solve<span class="Underline"> the myriad </span>social problems<span class="Underline"> confronting us today</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

HSR increases intermodal services with air transportation – reduction in congestion enhances competitiveness and opens up potential for freight rail
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rodrigue</span> 20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span> [Dr. Jean-Paul. Ph.D. in Transport Geography from the Université de Montréal (1994) and has been at the Department of Economics & Geography at Hofstra University since 1999. In 2008, he became part of the Department of Global Studies and Geography. //“The Geography of Transport Systems”// Chapter 3. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://people.hofstra.edu/geotrans/eng/ch3en/appl3en/ch3a1en.html/accessed]]</span>: 9/10/12=]
__H__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh </span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail systems </span>__can have a substantial impact on__ __other transport modes__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, even freight transport systems. One of the </span>__most apparent is on air transportation services__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> between cities of the high speed rail corridor, particularly the most distant ones. </span>__High speed is able to compete successfully with short to medium distance air transport services__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">as it conveys the advantage of servicing downtown areas and has much lower terminal time, mainly </span>__because of less security constraints__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Another emerging trend concerns a complementarity between HSR and air transportation, which </span>__involves cooperation between a national air and rail carrier__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For instance Lufthansa and Deutsche Bahn as well as Air France and SNCF offer single fares and tickets for selected routes where an high speed rail segment is offered instead of a flight. There is </span>__thus a balance between competition and complementarity between HSR and air transportation, particularly when there is congestion in the air transport system__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In this situation the </span>__complementarity may help release airport gate slots that can be used to support more revenue generating__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (longer distance) </span>__flights or to reduce congestion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Rail stations with </span>__h____igh speed rail services are also increasingly becoming transport hubs with the associated demands__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> on urban transport systems, particularly public transit. Regarding high speed rail stations, two dynamics have emerged:</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span>__reconversion and usage of central railway stations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Such facilities </span>__benefit from high accessibility levels due to their central locations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and can thus grant a significant customer base for HSR services.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The setting of new facilities in suburbia. In this case, the </span>__HSR__ __station represents an opportunity to create a new node of activity within a metropolitan area__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">/</span>__For freight transportation, the are several potential impacts,__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> mostly indirect. The most straightforward is that </span>__since h__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh </span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail </span>__uses its own right of way__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the </span>__separation between passenger and freight systems promotes__ __the efficiency and reliability of both networks__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The main reason is that passengers and freight have different operational characteristics, namely in terms of speed and frequency of service. The </span>__setting of high speed networks may also incite additional investments in rail freight infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, particularly in metropolitan areas, better signaling technologies and cost sharing initiatives. Although there have been discussions about the </span>__potential of using high speed rail to move freight,__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> these have not yet led to concrete realizations. There are </span>__plans to have a high speed rail cargo network in Europe__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> by 2015, </span>__which would link major air cargo hubs__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> such as Paris, Liege, Amsterdam, London and Frankfurt. The goal is to provide an alternative to short haul air cargo routes as well as the possibility to move cargo between the hubs</span>

Without HSR funding, lack of investor confidence and congestion devastate the economy
<span class="Cite">McMahon</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span>**__1<span class="Cite">1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Jeff. Contributor at Forbes covering green technology, energy, and the environment. March 29. //“High-Speed Rail Critics Imperil Economic Growth, Bombardier President Says.”// Forbes. http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2011/03/29/high-speed-rail-critics-imperil-economic-growth-bombardier-president-says/=]</span>
__Opposition to h____igh-speed rail imperils U.S. economic growth__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the North America president of a leading train manufacturer said in Chicago Tuesday./ “Although some may be of the opinion that we can’t afford passenger rail investment at this time, I can assure you from Bombardier’s experience around the world that the opposite is true,” said Raymond Bachant of Bombardier Transportation, a Canadian firm that participated in the development and manufacturing of 95 percent of Europe’s high-speed trains./ “</span>__Investment__ __in passenger rail infrastructure is a decision that will create long-term jobs and strengthen the economy__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” Bachant told several hundred corporate executives, trade officials, and rail enthusiasts gathered at the Mid-America Club on the 80th floor of Chicago’s Aon building./ High-speed rail was a favorite target of the Tea Party movement that seized the House of Representatives and several governor’s mansions last November. Newly elected governors in Florida, Wisconsin and Ohio have turned down funding for high-speed rail./ “We have seen some setbacks in some states, where some states have decided to return the money,” Bachant said. “Of course that makes other states happy because they will receive the money.”/ The Obama Administration has offered the $2.4 billion returned by Florida, for example, to other states through a fast-track funding program. Several states are rushing to file applications before the April 4 deadline, including Michigan, Missouri, New York, Virginia, Vermont, Delaware, and Rhode Island./ One state’s folly may be another state’s fortune, but Bachant sees peril in the politics nonetheless./ “</span>__Rail funding__ __can’t be a political football. It must be entrenched in a long-term economic vision__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”/ Raymond Bachant/ Industry will only invest in high speed rail if it sees a permanent commitment from government, he said./ “</span>If the__U.S. makes it clear that passenger rail is a priority____, and that it’s here to stay and to grow, businesses will invest even more than they do today__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”/ President Obama agrees. In his State of the Union Address, Obama called for 80 percent of Americans to have access to high-speed trains within a quarter of a century. The president outlined a six-year, $53 billion spending plan for high-speed rail./ But Bachant emphasized the investment has to continue beyond the Obama Administration for the U.S. to develop a transportation infrastructure that will ensure its own continued competitiveness./ “</span>__For too long passenger rail funding__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—in many countries of the world—</span>__has gone up and down like a yo-yo__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A </span>__country cannot create a sustainable industry, supply base or clear economic impact based on a feast or famine market__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”/ The United States fell to third place in world funding for clean energy technology last year, and it lags further behind other developed nations in passenger rail transportation./ “To rival what is being done in Europe or Asia, Canada and the U.S. have a long way to go, Bachant said. “</span>__It is anticipated that in the next 10 years, European countries will double their existing networks to have more than 10,000 miles of high-speed links__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, while China will lead the way by building more than 30,000 miles of high speed railway.”/ </span>__Eventually, traffic congestion and greenhouse gas concerns will choke U.S. economic growth__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Bachant said. </span>__There will be 2.5 billion cars on the world’s roadways by 2030, and the U.S. already loses $87.2 billion per year because of traffic congestion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, according to the Texas Institute for Transportation./ “Anyone who’s been stuck in bumper to bumper traffic knows this is not good news,” Bachant said. ”</span>__People still need to move, and communities must be able to operate and grow, and so, we truly believe that sustainable mobility is at the heart of economic growth and development.”__

An intermodal systems with NextGen is critical to U.S competiveness in the global economy
<span class="Cite">Messina</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> 20</span>**__12__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Fred. Vice President in the Transportation business, with a focus on aviation infrastructure. He is responsible for driving the creation and application of critical service offerings for clients in the Department of Transportation and especially the Federal Aviation Administration. //“Rethinking Mega-Region Air Travel A Surprising Use for High-Speed Rail.”// Booz, Allen, Hamilton. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.boozallen.com/media/file/Rethinking-Mega-Region-Air-Travel-tl.PDF/accessed]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">: 9/10/12=]</span>
__Limiting congestion and delays is one of the great/ aviation challenges of our time__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The FAA has responded/ with a multi-year, multi-billion-dollar transformation/ of the nation’s air transportation system, known/ as NextGen. </span>__NextGen shifts air travel from radar/ to satellite-based navigation, from voice to data/ communications, and from traditional airways to__ __far/ more efficient routes. H__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh-</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail between airports/ </span>__works hand-in-hand__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> with NextGen </span>__by supporting__ __the/ gains in air-traffic capacity and efficiency__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which are/ central goals of the program./ Airport-to-airport high-speed rail also is an example/ of how we might revitalize our entire transportation/ system, an </span>__imperative if our nation is to maintain its/ prosperity and remain globally competitive__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A recent/ report by the Building America’s Future Educational/ Fund, a bipartisan coalition of elected officials—led/ by former California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger,/ former Pennsylvania Governor Edward Rendell, and/ New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg—declared that/ America’s transportation system is “environmentally,/ politically, and economically unsustainable.”/ “In the last decade,” states the report, “</span>__our global/ economic competitors have led the way in planning/ and building the transportation networks of the 21st/ century.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">” Meanwhile, </span>__America has failed to move/ forward____, leaving “every mode of transportation in the/ U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates—highways and railroads, airports and/ seaports—</span>__stuck in the last century__ __and ill equipped__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for/ the demands of a churning global economy.” The report/ also states, “</span>__Unless we make significant changes in/ our course and direction, the foreign competition will/ pass us by, and a real opportunity to restore America’s/ economic strength will be lost.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">”/ A major reason that </span>__America’s transportation system/ is falling so far behind__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> is </span>__that our various modes of__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 5/ </span>__transportation are only loosely connected__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Although/ that might not have been an issue through much/ of the last century, </span>__it is now putting our nation at a serious disadvantage____. To compete globally__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, a nation’s/ transportation </span>__system must function as__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> an organic/ whole, </span>__greater than the sum of its parts__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span>__key is to/ identify new and powerful ways to integrate the various/ modes of transportation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Countries in Europe and/ elsewhere are far ahead of us in this regard. However,/ </span>__we can catch up…and even move ahead__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">./ Airport-to-airport high-speed rail does more than/ revolutionize mega-region air travel; it provides a/ template for the kind of innovative thinking that must/ be applied to our entire transportation system.</span>

Intermodal systems increase global integration and prevent extinction
<span class="Cite">Dempsey 2000</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Paul Stephen. PhD/J.D, director of the National Center for Intermodal Transportation, Director of the Transportation Law Program, professor of law – University of Denver. //“The Law of Intermodal Transportation: What it was, What it is, What it should be”// </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ncit.msstate.edu/PDF/INTERMODAL-ARTICLE29AUG00version2.pdf/accessed]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: 9/13/12=]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">As the </span>__gateways to an increasingly global market____, transportation corridors are the arteries through which we and everything we consume flow__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Transportation networks </span>__stimulate trillions of dollars in trade, commerce, and tourism.__ __In a global economy, they enable specialization in the production of goods and services which__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, under the law of comparative advantage, </span>__stimulates broader economic growth__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__By shrinking the planet, transportation also facilitates the intermingling and integration of disparate economies and cultures__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__Cultural interaction enhances international understanding which promotes global peace which, in a thermonuclear world__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, </span>__is essential for survival of our species__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. It </span>__offers hope for the creation of a global village of friends and neighbors__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> rather than enemies and adversaries. Cultural interaction also </span>__stimulates intellectual social and artistic creativity__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, making the world a more interesting and richer place in which to live. As a fundamental component of the infrastructure upon which economic growth is built - the veins and arteries of commerce, communications, and national defense - </span>__a healthy transportation system serving the public's needs for ubiquitous service at reasonable prices is vitally important to region and the nation it serves__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. It is for this reason that governments the world over have promoted, encouraged, and facilitated its provision by providing essential infrastructure, research and development, protective regulation, subsidies and, on occasion, outright ownership. </span>__Historically, government has facilitated transportation by guiding the airports, the seaports, the rail and transit lines, subsidized their operations where necessary, and established the basic codes and rules under which the industry serves the public__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. If done thoughtfully and well, go</span>__vernment planning can facilitate creation of an efficient and productive transportation infrastructure better able to satisfy the broader needs of the public for safe, secure, seamless, expeditious and reasonably priced transportation service.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The </span>__tourism and travel business is arguably the world's largest industry__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. It </span>__accounts for 5.5% of the world's GNP, 12.9% of consumer spending, 7.2% of worldwide capital investment, and 127 million jobs__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, employing one in every 15 workers. The </span>__ripple effect of transportation activity__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - the indirect and induced economic and employment stimulation - </span>__is vastly larger than the prices paid__ __directly by passengers or shippers__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__Transportation creates and transports wealth far in excess of its own facial value__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In other words, the tacit benefits of economic stimulation created by transportation networks far exceeds its costs. In this sense, transportation has profound externalities, both positive and negative. For example</span>__, a city with abundant airline, motor carrier and railroad networks radiating from it like the spokes of a wheel, enjoys a wide economic catchment area stimulating trade, commerce and wealth for its citizens.__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Conversely, a community with poor, declining or deteriorating access to the established and prevailing transportation networks will wither like a human limb or organ starved of oxygen by an artery made impassable by a tenacious blood clot. On a macroeconomic level, these observations are true for all nations and all regions, and arguably for all time. </span>__An expeditious, efficient, and economical transportation network will facilitate the public's need for mobility and will ordinarily advance economic productivity and growth. Conversely, a deteriorating transportation infrastructure will produce sluggishness in overall economic productivity and retard economic growth.__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Independently, HSR would be the center of growth – mega-regions, agglomeration, productivity, congestion, technology and history prove</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Tierney</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">20</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[Sean, Assistant Professor Department of Geography University of North Texas, holds a Ph.D. in Geography from the University of Denver, //“High-speed rail, the knowledge economy and the next growth wave”// Journal of Transport Geography. Science Direct. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966692312000312#=]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">On April 14, 2011, Cambridge, MA based Zipcar, soared on its ﬁrst day as a publically traded company. Zipcar owns a ﬂeet of cars in nearly 100 cities and charges a monthly fee to its members who reserve and use it only when needed. A critical underlying aspect of Zipcar’s vision is reliant on population density, as people must walk to and from cars that are strategically parked around town. What does Zipcar have to do with high-speed rail? High-speed rail (</span><span class="Underline">HSR</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span><span class="Underline">will form the corridors of housing, employment and recreation that will transform our regional geographies;</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a landscape </span><span class="Underline">where suburbs and detached single family housing are still the norm, but people and businesses are more densely aligned</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> around stations </span><span class="Underline">making car-ownership less necessary</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. More than simply links and nodes, </span>//transportation is deeply embedded in the texture of the American experience, and HSR is the next logical iteration in the nexus between infrastructure and an expanding economic geography.// History has shown<span class="Underline"> that </span>new transport<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ation </span>tech<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nologies </span>improve exchange while accommodating growing<span class="Underline"> urban </span>populations<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Street and </span><span class="Underline">trolley cars enabled the ﬁrst bedroom communities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> along rail lines after which the early automobile expanded the perimeter a bit further. </span><span class="Underline">The Eisenhower highway system created</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">suburbs,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> while </span><span class="Underline">beltways brought us edge cities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and exurbs. Urban boundaries have now pushed out so far that they often overlap with neighboring cities. People living in the boomburb of Castle Rock, CO are within an hour of both Denver and Colorado Springs, while Princeton, NJ splits the difference between New York and Philadelphia. </span><span class="Underline">It is </span>axiomatic<span class="Underline"> that </span>agglomerations spur innovation and growth<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Audretsch, 1998), but creativity has been pushing outward for decades as evidenced by Redmond, WA (Microsoft), Stamford, CT (UBS Bank) or Round Rock, TX (Dell). The </span>landscape is extending<span class="Underline"> yet again and where we used to associate economic vibrancy with cities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and then metropolitan areas, we </span>//now think of mega-regions//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Charlotte is not part of the research triangle (Raleigh, Durham, and Chapel Hill) but is home to the country’s largest bank (Bank of America) and is only 250 miles from Atlanta. </span><span class="Cite">L</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">os </span><span class="Cite">A</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ngeles </span><span class="Cite">and San Diego are part of a web extending across south</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ern </span><span class="Cite">California.Southwest Airlines gotits start serving traveler demand</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the triangle </span><span class="Cite">between Dallas, Houston and San Antonio</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; </span><span class="Cite">with triple digit oil prices, rail could serve these three fast-growing cities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (a triangle that also contains Austin and Ft. Worth), none of which are more than 275 miles apart. </span>Florida<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(2009) </span>identiﬁes 40 global mega-regions<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, of which nine are located in the US (seven are purely US and two included parts of Canada). </span>These places<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> are not just </span>driving global economic growth<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, they are doing it </span><span class="Underline">with a fraction of the people; home to less than 20% of the world’s population, these </span>mega-regions produce 2/3 of the economic output.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> It is </span><span class="Underline">naïve to believe the populations</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of these regions </span><span class="Underline">will remain static</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which is why </span><span class="Underline">it would be irresponsible not to start constructing </span>HSR<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="Underline">I</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ntelligent </span><span class="Underline">t</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ransportation </span><span class="Underline">s</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ystems </span><span class="Underline">or alt</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ernate fuel </span><span class="Underline">vehicles </span>may obviate<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> an </span><span class="Underline">oil crisis, but we would still have a </span>highway and congestion crisis<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. There is a reason that highway construction has its own ‘black hole theory’ (Plane, 1995). And it is not just </span>congestion<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that </span>is costing<span class="Underline"> us money</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, but </span><span class="Underline">also </span>lost economic output<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. By equipping trains with Wi-Fi, as competitor countries have already done, </span>//HSR enhances productivity//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In addition to being congested, </span><span class="Underline">cities</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> like Boston, Seattle and Chicago </span><span class="Underline">are also expensive</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>HSR enables<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> these </span>cities to extend<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">beneﬁts of </span>urbanization economies<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, by making them available further into the hinterland where housing and commercial space is more affordable. </span><span class="Underline">Regional </span>agglomeration beneﬁts will be necessary as rising rents and labor costs choke off access, collaboration and opportunities for would-be entrepreneurs<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

And, mega-regions ensure rapid long term growth
<span class="Cite">Todorovich</span> **__et al.__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span><span class="Cite">11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Petra, director of America 2050, a national urban planning initiative to develop an infrastructure and growth strategy for the United States, Daniel Schned is an associate planner for America 2050 at Regional Plan Association, where he has focused on researching and planning for dedicated high-speed rail and improvements to conventional passenger rail in the Northeast Corridor. He coordinates the Business Alliance for Northeast Mobility. Robert Lane is senior fellow for urban design at Regional Plan Association and a founding principal of Plan & Process LLP. His current and recent work focuses on the relationships between transit, land use, and urban design, with emphasis on public participation and communication through visual techniques. //“High-Speed Rail International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers”// Lincoln Institute of Land Policy. https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf=]</span>
__High-speed rail’s ability to promote economic growth is grounded in__ __its capacity to increase access to markets and exert positive effects on the spatial distribution of economic activity__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Redding and Sturm 2008). </span>__Transportation networks increase market access, and economic development is more likely to occur in places with more and better transportation infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In theory, by improving access to urban markets, highspeed rail increases employment, wages, and productivity; encourages agglomeration; and boosts regional and local economies. Empirical evidence of high-speed rail’s impact around the world tends to support the following theoretical arguments for high-speed rail’s economic beneﬁts. Higher wages and productivity: The </span>__time savings and increased mobility__ __offered by h__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh-</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail </span>__enables workers__ __in the service sector and in information- exchange industries to move about the megaregion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> more freely and reduces the costs of face-to-face communication. This enhanced connectivity boosts worker productivity and business competitiveness leading to higher wages (Greengauge 21 2010). Deeper labor and employment markets: </span>__By connecting more communities to other population and job centers, h__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail </span>__expands__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>__overall commuter shed of the megaregion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The deepened labor markets give employers access to larger pools of skilled workers, </span>__employees access to more employment options, and workers access to more and cheaper housing options__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> outside of expensive city centers (Stolarick, Swain, and Adleraim 2010). Expanded tourism and visitor spending: Just as airports bring visitors and their spending power into the local economy, </span>__high-speed rail stations attract new tourists and business travelers__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> who might not have made the trip otherwise. A study by the U.S. Conference of Mayors (2010) concluded </span>__that building high-speed rail would increase visitor spending annually by roughly $225 million in__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>__Orlando__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> region, </span>__$360__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> million </span>__in__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> metropolitan </span>__L__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">os </span>__A__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ngeles, $50 million in the Chicago area, and $100 million in Greater Albany, New York. Direct job creation: </span>__High-speed rail creates thousands of construction-related jobs in design, engineering, planning, and construction, as well as jobs in ongoing maintenance and operations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In Spain, the expansion of the high-speed AVE system from Malaga to Seville is predicted to create 30,000 construction jobs (Euro Weekly 2010). </span>__In China, over 100,000 construction workers were involved in building__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>__h__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh-</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail line that connects Beijing and Shanghai (Bradsher 2010). </span>__Sustained investment could foster__ __the development of new manufacturing <span class="Cite">industries for rail cars and other equipment, and</span> generate large amounts of related employment__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Urban regeneration and station area development:</span>__High-speed rail can generate growth in real estate markets and anchor investment in commercial and residential developments around train stations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, especially when they are built in coordination with a broader set of public interventions and urban design strategies (see chapter 3). These </span>__interventions ensure that high-speed rail__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> is integrated into the urban and regional fabric, which in turn </span>__ensures the highest level of ridership__ __and economic activity__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For example, the city of Lille, France, experienced greater than average growth and substantial ofﬁce and hotel development after its high-speed rail station was built at the crossroads of lines linking London, Paris, and Brussels (Nuworsoo and Deakin 2009). Spatial agglomeration: </span>__H__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh-</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail </span>__enhances agglomeration economies by__ __creating greater proximity between business locations through shrinking time distances__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, especially when the locations are within the rail-friendly 100 to 600 mile range. Agglomeration economies occur when ﬁrms beneﬁt from locating close to other complementary ﬁrms and make use of the accessibility to varied activities and pools of skilled labor. The high-speed train station and surrounding development</span> __in Lille, H__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh-</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail </span>__has__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span>__been described as altering the economic geography of megaregions__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. By effectively bringing economic agents closer together, high-speed rail can create new linkages among ﬁrms, suppliers, employees, and consumers that, over time, foster spatial concentration within regions (Ahlfeldt and Feddersen 2010). This interactive process creates net economic gains in addition to the other economic beneﬁts described here. A case study in Germany (box 1) exempliﬁes increased economic beneﬁts associated with high-speed rail, but in other cases the results have fallen short of expectations. This </span>__mixed evidence underscores the importance of ensuring__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">that transportation connections, station locations, urban development, and promotional strategies are in place to maximize the </span>__economic impact of this capital-intensive investment__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

Economic decline leads to war – strong statistical support
<span class="Cite">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">— Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Thus, the answer to the first question set out at the beginning of this section, whether economic integration and economic crises are linked, seems reasonably well-established. Substantial recent scholarship indicates a positive association between interdependence and economic crises. What then about the second question? </span>__Is there__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> a </span>__correlation between econ__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">omic </span>__crises and armed conflict____?__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The </span>__impacts at an individual level and on a state level are__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> intuitive and </span>__well-documented__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (see. e.g., Richards & Gelleny, 2006). Rodrik (1997a, 1997b), among others, argues that </span>__instability__ __in the global economic system contributes to social disintegration and political conflict.____Social unrest, regime change and__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> even </span>__civil war have directly resulted__ __from__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__vagaries of economic integration.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">3 / </span>__Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__likelihood of external conflict.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent stales. </span>__Research__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in this vein </span>__has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels.____Several notable contributions follow.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> / </span>**__First__**__,__ **__on the systemic__** __level, Pollins__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (2008) </span>__advances Modelski and Thompson's__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (1996) </span>__work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global econ__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">omy </span>__are associated with__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and__ __the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next.____As such, exogenous shocks such as econ__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">omic </span>__crises__ __could usher in__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> a </span>__redistribution of relative power__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (see also Gilpin, 1981) </span>__that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__risk of miscalc__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">ulation (Fearon. 1995). Alternatively, </span>__even__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> a </span>__relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> a </span>__permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> seek to </span>__challenge a declining power__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Werner. 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. / </span>**__Second__**__,__ **__on a dyadic level__**__, Copeland’s__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (1996. 2000) </span>__theory of trade expectations suggests__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that </span>__“future expectation of trade”____is__ __a significant variable in understanding econ__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">omic </span>__conditions and security behaviour of states.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> He argues that </span>__interdependent states__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> are likely to </span>__gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> However, </span>__if__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__expectations__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of future trade </span>__decline__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the </span>__likelihood for conflict increases____, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> those </span>__resources.____Crises could__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> potentially be the </span>__trigger__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> for </span>__decreased trade expectations__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> either </span>__on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> by interdependent states.4 / </span>**__Third__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict </span>**__at a national level__**__.____Blomberg and Hess__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (2002) </span>__find__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> a </span>__strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn.____They write,__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> / The </span>__linkages between__ __internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing.____Economic conflict__ __tends to spawn internal conflict, which__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in turn </span>__returns the favour.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Moreover, the </span>__presence of__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> a </span>__recession tends to amplify__ __the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Blomberg & Hess. 2002. p. 89) / </span>__Econ__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">omic </span>__decline has__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> also </span>__been linked with__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> an </span>__increase__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in the </span>__likelihood of terrorism__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Blomberg- Hess, & Weerapana. 2004), </span>__which has__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> / Furthermore, </span>__crises generally reduce__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__popularity of a sitting government.____'Diversionary theory'____suggests that, when facing unpopularity__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> arising </span>__from econ__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">omic </span>__decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> a </span>__'rally around the flag'____effect.____Wang__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (1996), </span>__DeRouen__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (1995), </span>__and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (2006) </span>__find__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> supporting </span>__evidence showing__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that </span>__econ__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">omic </span>__decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated.____Gelpi__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (1997), </span>__Miller__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (1999), </span>__and Kisangani and Pickering__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (2009) </span>__suggest__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that the </span>__tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states__ __than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> generally </span>__more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support____.____DeRouen__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (2000) </span>__has provided evidence showing__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that </span>__periods of weak econ__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">omic </span>__performance in the__ **__U__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates, </span>__and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> an </span>__increase in__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__use of force____.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> / </span>**__In summary__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas </span>**__political science scholarship links econ__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">omic </span>**__decline with__** **__external conflict at //systemic//, //dyadic// and //national levels//.__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span></span>



=Advantage 2 – Sustainability= 

World is reaching an unsustainable tipping point now
**__CBS 6/7__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">/12 [CBS News – citing the United Nations. //“UN: Humanity speeding down "unsustainable path"// http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-205_162-57448690/un-humanity-speeding-down-unsustainable-path/=]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A </span>__U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__N__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ations </span>__report warns that the earth's environmental systems "are being pushed towards their biophysical limits__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">" and that </span>__sudden, irreversible__ __and potentially catastrophic changes are looming__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The UN's Environment Program says that </span>__climate change,__ __the depletion of the ozone layer, plummeting fish stocks and the mass extinction of animals are among the most worrisome environmental threats__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. "The </span>__world continues to speed down an unsustainable path__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> despite over 500 internationally agreed goals and objectives to support the sustainable management of the environment and improve human wellbeing," a press release for the report states. The 525-page report released Wednesday said little or no progress has been made in recent years toward meeting international targets for reducing environmental destruction. The</span> __report calls on policymakers to take urgent action__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Achim Steiner is the UN program's head and he says the </span>__UN's mega-conference on sustainable development__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to be held in Rio de Janeiro this month </span>__would be the ideal forum to take the steps needed to prevent an environmental catastrophe__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. "If </span>__humanity does not urgently change its ways, several critical thresholds may be exceeded, beyond which abrupt and generally irreversible changes to the life-support functions of the planet could occur,__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">" a press release on the report states. Some key facts and figures from the report:Under current models, </span>__g____reenhouse gas emissions could double over the next 50 years, leading to rise in global temperature of 3 degrees__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Celsius or more by the end of the century.Indoor </span>__air pollution__ __from particulate matter is responsible for nearly 2 million premature deaths annually__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - including </span>__900,000 deaths in children under the age of five__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.Outdoor </span>__particulate matter may be responsible for around 3.7 million deaths annually__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>__Ground-level ozone is responsible for 700,000 respiratory deaths,__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">over 75 per cent of which occur in Asia.</span>__Global economic losses due to reduced agricultural____yields caused by air pollution are estimated at US $14-26 billion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> annually.The </span>__extinction risk is increasing faster for corals than for any other group of living organisms__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, with the condition of coral reefs declining by 38 per cent since 1980. </span>__Rapid contraction is projected by 2050__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.Though catches more than quadrupled from the early 1950s to the mid-1990s, they have stabilized or diminished since then - despite increased fishing. In 2000, catches could have been 7-36 percent higher were it not for stock depletion. This translated into economic losses to the value of $4-36 billion.Water quality in at least parts of most major river systems still fails to meet World Health Organization (standards.More than 600 million people are expected to lack access to safe drinking water by 2015, while more than 2.5 billion people will lack access to basic sanitation.By 2030, an estimated $9-11 billion will be spent annually on additional infrastructure to provide sufficient quantities of water, especially in developing countries.The </span>__number of flood and drought disasters rose by 230__ __per cent and 38 per cent respectively__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> between the 1980s and 2000s, while the number of people exposed to floods rose by 114 per cent.The cost of coastal adaptation to climate change is estimated to reach between US $26 billion and US $89 billion by the 2040s, depending on the magnitude of sea-level rise.</span>

Electrified HSR is //__resource efficient__// – increasing ridership and reducing oil dependence lowers emissions
**__Todorovich et al.__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span>**__11__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Petra, director of America 2050, a national urban planning initiative to develop an infrastructure and growth strategy for the United States, Daniel Schned is an associate planner for America 2050 at Regional Plan Association, where he has focused on researching and planning for dedicated high-speed rail and improvements to conventional passenger rail in the Northeast Corridor. He coordinates the Business Alliance for Northeast Mobility. Robert Lane is senior fellow for urban design at Regional Plan Association and a founding principal of Plan & Process LLP. His current and recent work focuses on the relationships between transit, land use, and urban design, with emphasis on public participation and communication through visual techniques. //“High-Speed Rail International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers”// Lincoln Institute of Land Policy. https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf=]</span>
__H__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh-</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail </span>__has__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>__potential to provide greater environmental beneﬁts and energy efﬁciencies__ __than other modes of long distance travel__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. However, several conditions must be met to obtain these beneﬁts. Energy efﬁciency and ridership: High-</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail </span>__offers greater operating efﬁciency on a per passenger mile basis than competing modes__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, such as single-occupancy automobiles or airplanes that require signiﬁcant amounts of fuel to get off the ground. </span>__For example, Shinkansen trains are estimated to use one-quarter the energy of airplanes and one-sixth that of private automobiles per passenger mile__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (JR Central 2011a). To achieve environmental beneﬁts, </span>__highspeed trains must maximize load factors__ __to realize the greatest efﬁciencies__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__As__ __highspeed rail ridership increases, so does its relative energy efﬁciency__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, whereas a high-speed train carrying no passengers ceases to be efﬁcient in any sense. In regions where the number of total trips is not growing, high-speed rail can bring about a net reduction of energy use through mode shift by capturing passengers from automobile or airplane trips. In regions </span>__like California where population and trips are projected to keep growing, h__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail </span>__can help reduce the energy and climate impacts__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> on a per passenger basis </span>__through__ __a combination of mode shift and attracting new passengers__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to high-speed rail. Energy mix: </span>__High-speed rail is the only available mode of long-distance travel that currently is not dependent on motor fuels__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__High-speed rail is powered by electricity__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which is not without environmental problems depending on its source (see table 2). If it is powered by electricity generated from fossil fuels, such as coal or natural gas that discharge harmful greenhouse gas emissions, then its environmental beneﬁts are limited. However, </span>__electricity is__ __generally considered an improvement over petroleum generated power and provides a crucial advantage as the U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>__aims to reduce__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its </span>__dependence on foreign____oil__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor and parts of the Keystone Corridor (connecting Harrisburg, Pennsylvania to Philadelphia) are electriﬁed. Most other conventional passenger trains in America operate on freight rail lines and are powered by diesel fuel. </span>__Energy planning needs to be a part of the planning for high-speed rail to ensure the reduction of greenhouse gases and other harmful pollutants__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Even with the current energy mix that includes fossil fuel sources, however, high-speed rail can yield signiﬁ- cant environmental beneﬁts. A recent study by the University of Pennsylvania (2011) found that a </span>__new high-speed line__ __in the N__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">orth</span>__e__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ast </span>__C__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">orridor, </span>__powered by electricity__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> from the current energy mix, </span>__would divert__ __nearly 30 million riders from cars and planes, attract 6 million new riders, and still reduce car emissions of carbon monoxide by more than 3 million tons annually__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span>__system would also result in a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions if the energy mix were shifted to low carbon emitting sources__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

And, resource efficiency is essential to sustain growth and prevent energy scarcity
**__Jehanno__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span>**__11__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Aurélie. SYSTRA - provider of public and rail transportation solutions (U.S), Project manager. //“High Speed Rail and Sustainability.”// November. International Union of Railways. Accessed: 9/13/12=]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span>__world population is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050__ __according to the US Census__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Bureau.w This </span>__population growth will have significant impacts on global natural resources__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As a consequence, setting up </span>__a more sustainable transport system that consumes fewer resources appears to be a central issue__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span>__ongoing growth in global consumption of raw materials is likely to cause shortages that could aggravate energy scarcity and hamper__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>__development of a sustainable economy__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, e.g. when causing difficulties to promote a large scale electrification of land based transport. All transport sectors contribute to natural resource depletion, including the </span>__HSR__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> sector although this </span>__has a lower impact__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Resource depletion takes place when using energy or raw materials. </span>__Resource efficiency means an optimized use__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Further </span>__improvements__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in efficiency </span>__can be made by emphasising minimising emissions__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> from the construction of any new rail infrastructure, focussing on using lower carbon materials and on the recyclability of train components. </span>__During the construction phase a reduction in mass contributes to energy efficiency and is__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> typically </span>__achieved by reducing__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>__weight of specific components__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (e.g. carriage bodies, bogies etc.) or through a system-based approach to reducing weight (e.g. the articulated train design favoured by Alstom, which has reduced the number of bogies by around 20% by placing them between rail carriages).25 Further </span>__weight reduction can be achieved by the improvement of traction equipment__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> efficiency and the train configuration (i.e. articulated architecture). Furthermore, </span>__light-weight aluminium construction enables__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the vehicles to be designed for </span>__easy maintenance__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The use of better insulating materials also allows higher energy efficiency. </span>__Updating and modernizing__ __the vehicle fleet throughout the lifetime of HRS trains improves the carbon footprint__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> even further. For example DB’s 59 first generation ICE trains were completely rebuilt between 2005 and 2008. According to experts, this </span>__modernization made for great reductions in the use of resources compared to the purchase of new trains__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, saving roughly 16,000 tons of steel and 1,200 tons of copper. Moreover, refurbishing the components, rather than using new manufactured ones, reduced CO2 emissions by 35,000 tons.x The </span>__use of composite and biomaterials__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (from renewable resources such as wood or hemp) </span>__allows a higher recyclability rate__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> which in turn preserves resources. Also the replacing of hazardous materials or ozone-damaging solids contributes to better resource efficiency. </span>__HSR offers several advantages to limit the extensive use of raw materials__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Figure 18 shows how efficiently a tonne (used to produce a vehicle) is able to offer seat-km during its whole-life, assuming similar recycling rates for all vehicles, while shows an example of rail recycling: Last, but not least, the </span>__long life of rolling stock and infrastructure contributes to resource efficiency__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span>__life cycle is usually 30 years but in reality often much longer__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Through upgrading and modernization further contributions to material efficiency could be achieved__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, for example </span>__from__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: </span>__Resource and waste management__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Waste and its role as resource / </span>__potential of recycling and re-use__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Recycling of materials / use of secondary raw materials Purifying waste water / </span>__cleaning of HSR trains____Reprocessing ballast, ties or rails__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (e.g. steel as important raw material)</span>

Resource wars are the most likely point of conflict
<span class="Cite">Klare</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> 20</span><span class="Cite">06</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> [Michael T, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., and the author of Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Petroleum Dependency, //“The Coming Resource Wars//” March 9. AlterNet. http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It's official: the </span><span class="Underline">era of resource wars is upon us.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> In a major London address, British Defense Secretary John Reid warned that </span><span class="Underline">global </span>climate change and<span class="Underline"> dwindling natural </span>resources are combining to increase<span class="Underline"> the </span>likelihood of violent conflict<span class="Underline"> over land, water and energy</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Climate change, he indicated, "will make scarce resources, clean water, viable agricultural land even scarcer" -- </span><span class="Underline">and this will "make</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span class="Underline">emergence of violent conflict more</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> rather than less </span><span class="Underline">likely.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Although not unprecedented, Reid's prediction of an upsurge in resource conflict is significant both because of his senior rank and the vehemence of his remarks. "The blunt truth is that the lack of water and agricultural land is a significant contributory factor to the tragic conflict we see unfolding in Darfur," he declared. "We should see this as a warning sign."</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span class="Underline">Resource conflicts</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of this type </span><span class="Underline">are most likely to arise in the developing world</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Reid indicated, but the </span><span class="Underline">more advanced</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and affluent </span><span class="Underline">countries are not likely to be spared</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the damaging and destabilizing effects of global climate change. With </span><span class="Underline">sea levels rising, water and energy becoming increasingly scarce and prime agricultural lands turning into deserts, internecine warfare over access to vital resources will become a global phenomenon</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Reid's speech, delivered at the prestigious Chatham House in London (Britain's equivalent of the Council on Foreign Relations), is but the most recent expression of a growing trend in strategic circles to view environmental and resource effects -- rather than political orientation and ideology -- as the most potent source of armed conflict in the decades to come. </span><span class="Underline">With the world population rising, global consumption rates soaring, energy supplies</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> rapidly </span><span class="Underline">disappearing and climate change eradicating valuable farmland</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the stage is being set for persistent and worldwide struggles over vital resources. </span>//Religious and political strife will not disappear//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in this scenario, </span>//but// <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">rather</span>//will be channeled into contests over valuable sources of water, food and energy//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Prior to Reid's address, the most significant expression of this outlook was a report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense by a California-based consulting firm in October 2003. Entitled "An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security," the report warned that global climate change is more likely to result in sudden, cataclysmic environmental events than a gradual (and therefore manageable) rise in average temperatures. Such events could include a substantial increase in global sea levels, intense storms and hurricanes and </span><span class="Underline">continent-wide "dust bowl" effects</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This wo</span><span class="Underline">uld trigger pitched battles between the survivors </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">of these effects </span><span class="Underline">for access to food, water,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> habitable </span><span class="Underline">land and energy supplies</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "</span><span class="Underline">Violence and disruption</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> stemming from the stresses </span><span class="Underline">created by </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">abrupt </span><span class="Underline">changes in the climate pose a different type of threat to national security</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> than we are accustomed to today," the 2003 report noted. </span>//"//<span class="Underline">Military confrontation may be triggered by a desperate need for natural resources such as energy, food and water rather than by conflicts over ideology, religion or national honor."</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Until now, this mode of analysis has failed to command the attention of top American and British policymakers. For the most part, they insist that ideological and religious differences -- notably, the clash between values of tolerance and democracy on one hand and extremist forms of Islam on the other -- remain the main drivers of international conflict. But Reid's speech at Chatham House suggests that a </span><span class="Underline">major shift in strategic thinking may be under way. Environmental perils may soon dominate </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the world security agenda.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This </span><span class="Underline">shift is due in part to the growing weight of evidence pointing to a significant human role in altering the planet's basic climate systems.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Recent studies showing the rapid shrinkage of the polar ice caps, the accelerated melting of North American glaciers, the increased frequency of severe hurricanes and a number of other such effects all suggest that dramatic and potentially harmful changes to the global climate have begun to occur. More importantly, they conclude that </span><span class="Underline">human behavior </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-- most importantly, </span><span class="Underline">the burning of fossil fuels in</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> factories, power plants, and motor </span><span class="Underline">vehicles</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- </span><span class="Underline">is the most likely cause of </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">these </span><span class="Underline">changes. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This assessment may not have yet penetrated the White House and other bastions of head-in-the-sand thinking, but it is clearly gaining ground among scientists and thoughtful analysts around the world.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> For the most part, public discussion of global climate change has tended to describe its effects as an environmental problem -- as a threat to safe water, arable soil, temperate forests, certain species and so on. And, of course, </span>//climate change is//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a potent threat to the environment; in fact, </span>//the greatest threat imaginable//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. But viewing climate change as an environmental problem fails to do justice to the magnitude of the peril it poses. As Reid's speech and the 2003 Pentagon study make clear, the </span><span class="Underline">greatest danger</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> posed by global climate change </span><span class="Underline">is</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> not the degradation of ecosystems per se, but rather the </span>disintegration of entire human societies, producing wholesale starvation, mass migrations and<span class="Underline"> recurring </span>conflict over resources<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "As famine, disease, and weather-related disasters strike due to abrupt climate change," the Pentagon report notes, "</span><span class="Underline">many countries'</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> needs </span><span class="Underline">will exceed</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> their carrying capacity" -- that is, their </span><span class="Underline">ability to provide the minimum requirements for human survival</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This "</span><span class="Underline">will create a sense of desperation, which is likely to lead to offensive aggression</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">" against countries with a greater stock of vital resources. "Imagine eastern European countries, struggling to feed their populations with a falling supply of food, water, and energy, eyeing Russia, whose population is already in decline, for access to its grain, minerals, and energy supply."</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Similar scenarios will be replicated all across the planet, as those without the means to survival invade or migrate to those with greater abundance -- producing endless struggles between resource "haves" and "have-nots."</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> It is this prospect, more than anything, that worries John Reid. In particular, he expressed concern over the inadequate capacity of poor and unstable countries to cope with the effects of climate change, and the resulting risk of state collapse, civil war and mass migration. "More than 300 million people in Africa currently lack access to safe water," he observed, and "climate change will worsen this dire situation" -- provoking more wars like Darfur. And </span><span class="Underline">even if these social disasters will occur primarily in the developing world</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the </span><span class="Underline">wealthier countries will</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span><span class="Underline">be caught up in them</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, whether by participating in peacekeeping and humanitarian aid operations, </span><span class="Underline">by fending off unwanted migrants or</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> by </span><span class="Underline">fighting for </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">access to overseas </span><span class="Underline">supplies</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of food, oil, and minerals.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> When reading of these nightmarish scenarios, it is easy to conjure up images of desperate, starving people killing one another with knives, staves and clubs -- as was certainly often the case in the past, and could easily prove to be so again. But </span>//these scenarios also envision the use of more deadly weapons//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. "In this world of warring states," the 2003 Pentagon report predicted, "</span>//nuclear arms proliferation is inevitable//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">." </span><span class="Underline">As oil and natural gas disappears</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, more and more </span><span class="Underline">countries will rely on nuclear power</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to meet their energy needs -- and </span><span class="Underline">this "will accelerate</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> nuclear </span><span class="Underline">proliferation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> as countries develop enrichment and reprocessing capabilities to ensure their national security."</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Although speculative, these reports make one thing clear: </span><span class="Underline">when thinking about the calamitous effects of global climate change, we must emphasize its social and political consequences as much as</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its purely </span><span class="Underline">environmental </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">effects. </span>Drought, flooding<span class="Underline"> and </span>storms can kill us<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and surely will -- but </span>so will wars<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> among the survivors of these catastrophes over what remains of food, water and shelter. As Reid's comments indicate, </span>no society<span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> however affluent, </span>will escape<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> involvement in these forms of conflict.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Perpetua','serif'; font-size: 21.3333px;">Plan</span>__**</span></span>

__<span style="font-size: 25.3333px;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its high-speed rail infrastructure investments, with public private partnerships, and establish a High Speed Passenger Trust Fund.</span>__


=Solvency= 

**Only public investment increases PPP efficiency, and high speed passenger trust fund increases inter-modal transportation and is cost-effective – only building in the 4 key mega-regions is feasible**
**__Arena__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span>**__12__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Richard J. president of the Association for Public Transportation (APT) and is on the advisory board of US High Speed Rail. //“Funding High-Speed Transportation in America with Public-Private Partnerships”// May 30. Mass Transit. http://www.masstransitmag.com/article/10714851/funding-high-speed-transportation-in-america-with-public-private-partnerships=]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This leads to the third way of funding public infrastructure. That </span>__approach would be implementation of public-private-partnerships__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, PPP or P3s as they are often called. The underlying assumption with P3s is that (1) there is a role for both government and private industry in building out this infrastructure, (2) neither the government nor private industry has the financial wherewithal to do so on its own, and (3) by </span>__both parties doing what they do best, the construction can be expedited and results realized more quickly__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">./ Many now believe that </span>__P3s can be the answer to building HSR in America__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The task at hand is devising a formula for P3s that would work and be palatable to government, private corporations, unions and management, as well as citizen taxpayers, fare payers and toll payers./ Several actions are needed: There needs to be enabling legislation to facilitate P3s in areas like Joint Power Authorities for governance, and regulations that will expedite permitting, zoning and environmental regulations. House Transportation & Infrastructure Chair John Mica (R-Fla.) has already called for this to upgrade the NEC. Also, legislation is required to expedite land acquisition for HSR right of way and areas around HSR train stations for transit-oriented development (TOD). Another critical legislative initiative will be requisite to facilitate the value capture of project revenues from existing properties in the proposed HSR station areas./ Developers must be allowed to assume that when calculating the return on investment (ROI) for the HSR project that they could include not only revenues from HSR fares, but also from rent and lease payments flowing from commercial and residential properties at the TOD sites./ Government entities would procure the HSR right of way as well as the TOD-related properties. The government would be responsible for all zoning, permitting and environmental (NEPA) work, so as to minimize the red-tape risk to the private firms. These TOD properties and ROW’s would be leased, at very favorable terms, to the private contractor or syndicate for 35 to 50 or more years. For existing properties, the private entity would be contractually obligated to return these properties to the governmental authority at the end of the lease in as good or better condition than when first received. For to-be-built properties, there would be a strict construction schedule, with severe penalties to the contractor for non-performance. Lastly, importantly, and perhaps most controversially, is the requirement to prime the pump with a steady, predictable cash inflow of, </span>__on average, $10 billion per year and an initial government-backed bond offering of $100 billion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span>__bond offering would be secured by the yearly cash flow__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, thereby </span>__providing__ __the financial liquidity that would enable the governmental entities to purchase and prepare the acquired land for development__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">./ Public Sector Funding Mechanism/ So just where would that $10 billion a year infusion come from? The answer: </span>__a proposed High Speed Passenger Transportation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (HSPT) fund. This transportation fund </span>__would address needs in__ __both air travel as well as h__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh-</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail./ </span>__Air travel and HSR are linked together because these modes are both competitive and complementary,__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> just as automobile travel and public transit are both competitive and complementary. The gist of this proposal would be to </span>__put a user fee of 6 percent__ __on airline tickets, charter flights, air freight revenues, Amtrak tickets, and future HSR tickets to fund__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a High Speed Passenger Transportation (</span>__HSPT__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) fund. </span>__Proceeds would be in the vicinity of $10 billion annually__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">./ The </span>__proposal would allocate__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 60 percent (</span>__$6 billion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span>__to__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> build </span>__h__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">igh-</span>__s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">peed </span>__r__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ail, 20 percent </span>__($2 billion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span>__to the airline industry__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to deploy a state-of-the-art next-generation air traffic control (NextGen ATC) system, </span>__and__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20 percent </span>__($2 billion) to subsidize and improve the performance of existing intercity rail.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">/ HSPT fund benefits/ HSR Construction: HSR construction is the key component of this bill. Lack of assured, </span>__predictable funding is holding back deployment__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Assuming the $6 billion annual revenue stream for HSR, allocate $3 billion for bond interest payments (the $3 billion will float $100 billion bond offering at 3 percent coupon rate), and remaining $3 billion for ongoing government actions that will minimize the risk to private developers./ With the initial $100 billion capital infusion and the annual $3 billion from the HSPT fund, the HSR program can be jump started. The </span>__government can take the following actions: buying rights of way__ __(ROW) for the rail lines, purchasing land around HSR stations for transit-oriented development, starting and completing all zoning and permitting, negotiating mitigation settlements, and most importantly, completing all NEPA studies and reviews, and securing the required NEPA approvals./ Government can also make progress payments to the private sector for long lead time items__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. One example would be to incent manufacturers to invest in factories that develop and manufacture American-built train sets and other equipment for the HSR lines. </span>__Future HSR fare revenues will be used to pay off debt and fund more HSR lines__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. NextGen ATC: The </span>__existing a__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ir </span>__t__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">raffic </span>__c__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ontrol system </span>__is__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 50 years old, obsolete </span>__and unable to handle current traffic__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in high volume markets such as greater New York City. Congestion in this market ripples in both directions, delaying flights from the west (Midwest, California) and the east (Europe). The </span>__cost for this new system has ballooned from $10 billion to $40 billion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and future funding for this project is not assured./ Higher-speed rail: HrSR is important as a feeder to HSR. At 70 mph, HrSR which still requires subsidization, would require less of a subsidy since it is far more competitive with both automobiles and buses. Many of these HrSR lines, also called emerging HSR, can become true HSR service in the future, as demand, conditions and financing warrant./ P3 Benefits/ The HSPT fund is the key. With this fund, the government and private sector can work together in P3s. The </span>__additional revenue streams__ __from the commercial and residential TOD construction, along with the anticipated rail fares, will result in HSR operators turning a profit, covering__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> not only </span>__operating__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span>__maintenance costs__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, but also </span>__capital costs__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The added benefit is that the </span>__HSPT Fund is a user fee and will not require allocations from strained general federal tax revenues__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">./ Neither the federal government nor private industry has the wherewithal to construct HSR alone. The </span>__total cost of development along the 11 key FRA corridors will be in the vicinity of $500 billion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to three quarters of a trillion dollars, or </span>__$25 to $30 billion a year__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for 25-plus years./ The </span>__benefits accruing from the HSPT Fund__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> are numerous. The </span>__country benefits because there is now another time-competitive, cost-effective way to transport__ __the additional 100 million Americans that are projected to be here by 2050.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">/ The </span>__airlines__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> benefit because they will </span>__have a new ATC system__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that will make their operations far more efficient. Take-offs and landings will be more predictable and planes will not waste expensive jet fuel as they circle airports or queue on taxiways. Aircraft utilization will increase and the return on these expensive assets will be improved as the planes spend more time in the air on revenue service. Another benefit to the airlines is that this proposal will reimburse them for the cost of retrofitting their planes with the NextGen ATC hardware, a </span>__price tag estimated in the $20 billion rang__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">e./ For convenience sake, </span>__many Americans will choose to travel by rail between key city pairs__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 200 to 600 miles apart, and </span>__airlines will be able to concentrate on more profitable, longer-haul flights__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">./ Americans benefit because they will have a </span>__viable, cost-effective, time-competitive alternative to airline travel__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Say goodbye to long lines at airport security checkpoints and intrusive, annoying TSA searches. Even travelers who cannot use HSR benefit because a viable HSR system translates into less congestion at airports, and better on-time performance when they have to fly. Another part of this proposal would impact the politics of HSR funding. </span>__Instead of__ __the 11 HSR corridors proposed by the FRA__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, keep it simple./ </span>__Picture four mega-corridors Eastern__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: Portland, Maine to Miami, Fla.; </span>__Central____:__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Minneapolis, Minn., to Chicago, Ill., to Houston, Texas; </span>__Western____:__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Vancouver, B.C. to San Diego, Calif.; </span>__Mid-American__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: Washington, D.C. to Chicago, Ill. </span>__These 1,000- to 2,000-mile corridors will have multiple 200- to 600-mile corridor segments between key city pairs where HSR will be more than competitive with air travel__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">./ But, </span>__by having the long corridors, it will be feasible to take political advantage of the additional senators, congressmen and governors that will represent states included in an HSR corridor__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This is a strategy that Amtrak has used successfully for more than 40 </span>years, and by having <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">competition amongst the various states, the execution of the P3 can be even further expedited by more aggressive states pushing to complete their sections earlier. And by keeping key Amtrak routes in the picture as HSR feeders, that vocal political constituency’s concerns are addressed</span>.





=Negative Staahhfs= 

==States CP== 

States solves case and avoids politics.
Gabriel <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Roth</span>**</span>, May 21st, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span>**</span>, research fellow, The Independent Institute, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Phase out federal transport financing!”</span> <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/not-waiting-for-the-feds.php]]</span>
The principle of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“subsidiarity” postulates that government decisions should occur at the lowest practicable level</span>, for example <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">locally rather than nationally. </span>This principle suggests that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is</span> indeed <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">time to relieve the federal government of</span> the burden of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">financing transportation infrastructure, and of the onus of having to raise the required fees or taxes, and return these responsibilities to the states</span>. The following reasons come to mind: 1. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The purpose of federal financing</span> — completion of the Interstate Highway System — <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has been virtually achieved, and it is difficult to identify other advantages from federal financing.</span> 2. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The disadvantages of federal financing — increased costs and intrusive regulation — are evident</span> and substantial. 3. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Congress,</span> unable to increase the taxes dedicated to roads, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">seeks to use general funds to finance</span> some of the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">transportation expenditures it considers necessary</span>, thus <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">abandoning the US traditional “user pays” principle</span> for roads. 4. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Congress keeps deferring long-term</span> road <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">legislation and substituting short-term-extensions of previous</span> (2005) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">legislation,</span> thus <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">hindering long-term planning of transportation projects</span>. 5. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">New methods to pay for road use</span> — such as mileage-based user fees to replace fuel taxes — <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are more likely to succeed as a result of innovations sought by different states, than if imposed by a federal government seeking a “one size fits all” solution. Reliance on general funds has the</span> critical <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">disadvantage that allocations to transportation from general revenues have to compete against other legitimate claims</span> such as defense. On the other hand, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">when funding is by user fees, expenditures</span> on infrastructure <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are determined by users’ willingness to pay</span>. I have to admit that, unlike Representative Peter DeFazio, I’ve not read all of the 1,600 plus pages of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the Senate bill</span>, but those that I have indicate <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that it would be best for it to be peacefully laid to rest</span>, in the hope that the next congress could fashion a shorter and better one. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Abandonment</span> of this unfortunate bill <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">would benefit the country economically, because the</span> [<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fed</span>] bill <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fosters irrelevant spending</span>. For example (as reported by our panelist Ken Orski) the creation of a new “National Endowment for the Oceans, Coasts and Great Lakes” to be housed in the Department of Commerce. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It also enables spectacularly wasteful spending</span>, such as the 19th century style Dulles Airport and Honolulu rail connections, which would have vehicles running on rails and stopping at every station. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">And it would benefit the federal congress fiscally, and politically: Fiscally, because congress has run out of money and is desperately seeking savings; and Politically, because road users — who vote [voters] — get a</span> particularly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">raw deal</span> from the bill, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">under which</span>, according to John Mica, Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, some <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">35 per cent of their payments are diverted to non-road purposes. </span>

==RailNet CP== 

CP TEXT: United States federal government should increase its network-centric operations on commercial freight railroad networks, including but not limited to the Strategic Rail Corridor Network, in the United States.
CP solves congestion – net-centric railroading increases efficiency and relieves the coming freight overload. It’s empirically proven to work.
Steven R.<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ditmeyer</span>**</span>, March 15th, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11</span>**</span> (DoT Faculty Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces,<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Network-Centric Railway Operations – Utilizing Intelligent Railroad Systems,”</span> <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.transportation.northwestern.edu/docs/2011/2011.03.15.Ditmeyer_Paper.pdf]]</span> >:)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Network-centric railway operations</span> and intelligent railway systems <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">represent a “unified theory of railway operations”</span> in which <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">positioning systems, sensors, computers, advanced mathematical methods, and digital communications are used to collect, process, and disseminate information to improve the safety, security, operational effectiveness, and productivity of railways. Intelligent Transportation Systems</span> (ITS) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">for highways and mass transit</span> are based on the same technologies, as are the National Airspace System and maritime vessel tracking systems. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Major parcel delivery companies, pipeline operators, law enforcement, and emergency response services also use these technologies. Military services utilize these technologies for network-centric warfare</span>;<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">1 </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">railways will use them for network-centric railway operations. Intelligent railway systems</span> can either be implemented as independent systems, in which case their benefits will be limited, or they <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">can be implemented as integrated, networked systems</span>, in which case <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the benefits will be compounded.</span> The railway industry is urged to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">consider adopting an integrated approach when implementing these systems to achieve network-centric railway operations</span>. A. IntroductionIntelligent railway systems were first described in the US Secretary of Transportation’s report, //<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT','serif';">The Changing Face of Transportation,</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">2 </span>published in 2000, and were expanded upon in the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA’s) //<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT','serif';">Five-Year Strategic Plan for Railroad Research, Development, and Demonstrations</span>//,<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">3 </span>a report to Congress published in March 2002. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The FRA, railways, and the railway supply industry have been working on the development of intelligent railway systems for command, control, communications, and information</span> (C<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">3</span>I), as well as <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">for braking systems, grade crossings, defect detection, and planning and scheduling systems.</span> These <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">technologies can prevent collisions and</span> overspeed <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">accidents, prevent hijackings and runaways, increase capacity and asset utilization, increase reliability, improve service</span> to customers, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">improve</span> energy <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">efficiency</span> and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">emissions, increase economic viability and profits, and enable railways to measure and control costs</span> and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to “manage the unexpected.”</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">4 </span>Intelligent railway systems will enable railways to improve their responsiveness to military deployments <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and to respond with flexibility and agility to rapid changes in the transportation marketplace. </span>

Relieving congestion solves competitiveness – efficient rail service attracts businesses and shores up US tech leadership.
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Dr. Sean </span><span class="Underline">**Randolph**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, Oct 20</span><span class="Underline">**08**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (President & CEO of the Bay Area Council Economic Institute, </span><span class="Underline">“California High-Speed Rail,” </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Bay Area Council Economic Institute Report, p http://www.bayeconfor.org/media/files/pdf/CaliforniaHigh-SpeedRailOct2008Web.pdf >:)</span>

<span class="Underline">World-class infrastructure is required to support world-class economies</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span><span class="Underline">Innovative, </span>world-class companies and<span class="Underline"> their </span>employees are<span class="Underline"> increasingly </span>likely to locate and cluster in nations<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, states, regions and cities </span>with<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">a diverse and educated workforce, high quality of life, and </span>world-class infrastructure<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span><span class="Underline">Experience in</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">places such as </span><span class="Underline">Western Europe, Japan and now China suggests that</span>fast rail<span class="Underline"> service </span>is<span class="Underline"> becoming a </span>key<span class="Underline"> component of the </span>infrastructure of competitive 21st century economies<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. High-speed trains are currently </span>operating in France<span class="Underline">, the </span>U<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>K<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">ingdom, </span>Spain, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Taiwan<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and </span>Japan, and<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> are being planned for </span>China<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Though difficult to quantify, as the world’s eighth largest economy, California’s </span><span class="Underline">global </span>competitiveness will be enhanced <span class="Underline">by the more efficient integration of</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> California’s </span><span class="Underline">markets, business networks and workforce</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">that high-speed rail will offer.</span>

The CP also solves their naval power scenario through tech sharing and shifting to a network-centric strategy. It also reduces oil dependence which means we solve energy efficiency.
Kenneth L. <span class="Cite">Alford</span>,<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Ph.D.,</span> <span class="Cite">and</span> Steven R. <span class="Cite">Ditmeyer</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, January 20</span><span class="Cite">07</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (National Defense University, DoT Faculty Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces, and Professor and Department Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “Net-Centric Operations: Defense and Transportation Synergy,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA487718 >:)</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The</span> Department of Defense (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">DoD</span>) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is actively working to transform platform-centric operations into net-centric operations. </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Net-centric railroading</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> could provide DoD’s Strategic Rail Corridor Network</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">(STRACNET)</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> with </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">unified operations</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> in which positioning systems, sensors, computers, advanced mathematical models, and digital communications could be used to collect, process, and disseminate information to </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">improve</span>****<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> the safety, security, and operational effectiveness</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> of our nation’s </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">railroads</span>**</span> [<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and troops</span>**</span>] <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in support of national defense.</span>**</span> As both departments pursue net-centric operations <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there will be numerous opportunities to </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">share tech</span>****<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nology</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and experience [with].</span> Admiral Jay Johnson, Chief of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Naval Operations</span>, apparently coined the phrase net-centric warfare in 1997 1 . Net-centric warfare has been defined as an information superiority-enabled concept of operations that generates increased combat power by networking sensors, decision makers, and shooters to achieve shared awareness, increased speed of command, higher tempo of operations, greater lethality, increased survivability, and a degree of self-synchronization [1]. Rapid and significant advances in information technology hardware and software during the past two decades have made it possible to fundamentally change the way information is gathered, stored, processed, and used. As the DoD Chief Information Officer (CIO), John G. Grimes, recently noted: … We must recognize that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is all about information, and we </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">must view information as a strategic asset.</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> Timely, accurate and trusted information lies at the </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">heart of net centric operations</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span> [2] <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The concept of net-centric operations, though, is not limited to warfare and the DoD. The DoD is not the only large government organization that is considering moving to net-centric operations. The Department of Transportation (</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">DoT</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">), for example, is seriously evaluating and </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">encouraging net-centric railroading</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. Net-Centric Railroading</span> Intelligent railroad <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">systems</span> were first described in the Secretary of Transportation’s report, The Changing Face of Transportation 2 , published in 2000, and their description was expanded in the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) Five-Year Strategic Plan for Railroad Research, Development, and Demonstrations 3 , a March 2002 congressional report. <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The FRA, railroads, and the railroad supply industry have been working on the development of intelligent railroad systems</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> for command, control, communications, and information</span> (C3I), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as well as for braking systems, grade crossings, defect detection, and planning and scheduling systems. These technologies can </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">prevent collisions</span>****<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> and overspeed accidents</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, prevent hijackings and runaways, increase capacity and asset utilization, increase reliability, improve service to customers, improve energy efficiency and emissions, increase economic viability and profits, and enable railroads to measure and control costs and manage the unexpected</span> [3]. <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Intelligent railroad systems could enable railroads to improve their quality of operations on the DoD-designated</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> Strategic Rail Corridor Network 4 (</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">STRACNET</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">), enhancing their </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">responsiveness</span>**</span> [<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span>] <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to military deployments. They would also enable railroads to respond with </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">flexibility and agility</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> to rapid changes</span> in the transportation marketplace. These systems could alleviate the need for a division commander to call railroad executives late at night to find out the location of railroad cars for loading their division’s heavy equipment – like Maj. Gen. David Petraeus had to do during the 101st Airborne Division’s deployment to participate in Operation Iraqi Freedom [4]. Benefits of Net-Centric Operations <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Proponents of net-centric operations – in government, industry, and academia – claim many benefits. Here are some of the most frequently claimed benefits that should apply to the DoD,</span> the DoT, and the railroad industry: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1. Increased operational flexibility. 2. Increased decision-making speed. 3. </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cost savings</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> through increased efficiency of asset usage. 4. </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Improved support</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> to geographically dispersed elements. 5. Increased visibility and a better understanding of operations. 6. </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Self-synchronization</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> of subordinate organizations. For the DoD, self-synchronization means the </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ability of a well informed force to organize and synchronize complex warfare activities from the bottom up</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. … Self-synchronization is enabled by a high level of knowledge of one’s own forces, enemy forces, and all appropriate elements of the operating environment</span> [1]. 7. General benefits that result due to increased connectivity. Net-centric computing is governed by Metcalfe’s Law, which asserts that the power of a network is proportional to the square of the number of nodes in the network. The power or payoff of net-centric computing comes from information-intensive interactions between very large numbers of heterogeneous computational nodes in the network [1]. Net-Centric Railroad Technologies <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Like the DoD’s concept of net-centric warfare</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, the DoT’s concept of </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">net-centric railroading is a system of systems</span>**</span>. Twenty nine key technologies, programs, and systems, either developed or under development, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">have been identified which could help create a net-centric railroading system.</span> (For a complete list, please see the sidebar entitled Railroad Net-Centric Technologies.) Here are 10 of the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">many technologies</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are being considered for incorporation into a net-centric railroading system.</span> Some, or <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">all, of these systems may have direct application for</span> [<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">other[s] systems</span>] <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and the DoD</span>, as well: • <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Positive Train Control (PTC) systems</span> are integrated C3I systems for <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">control</span>ling <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">train movements with safety, security, precision, and efficiency.</span> PTC systems would <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">improve railroad safety</span> by <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">significantly reducing the probability of collisions</span> between trains, casualties to roadway workers and damage to their equipment, and overspeed accidents. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has had PTC on its most wanted list oftransportation safety improvements since 1990 6 . PTC systems are <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">comprised of digital data link communications networks, continuous and accurate positioning systems, on-board computers with digitized maps on locomotives and track maintenance equipment, in-cab displays, throttlebrake interfaces on locomotives, datalink connections at switches (both powered and manual) and wayside detectors, and train control center computers and displays.</span> • <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Crew alertness monitoring systems</span> promote on-duty alertness and vigilance of train crews through the use of non-invasive technology applications. Real-time monitoring and feedback of individual alertness levels would allow crew members to modify their behavior and reduce their risk of unsafe performance. • <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Crew registration and time-keeping systems</span> would use identification techniques such as the Department of Homeland Security’s proposed Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC), other electronic card keys, passwords, or biometrics such as fingerprints and/or retinal scans to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ensure that only authorized crew members are permitted to control locomotives and track maintenance vehicles.</span> • <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Locomotive health-monitoring systems consist of sensors mounted on engines, traction motors, electrical systems, air systems, exhaust systems, and fuel tanks on locomotives.</span> Most new locomotives are equipped with most of these sensors. In the future, the data would be transmitted over the digital data link communications network to train control centers, maintenance facilities, and motive power distribution centers <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to permit real-time monitoring of locomotive performance and efficiency, improved diagnosis of problems, and more effective assignment of locomotives to trains.</span> • <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wayside track sensors</span> are installed <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to identify a number of defects</span> that occur on and alongside the track <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as well as identify conditions and obstructions along the track.</span> Among the conditions and defects that could be detected are switch position, broken rail, misaligned track, high water, rock and snow slides, excessive rail stress, misaligned bridges and trestles, blocked culverts, and earthquakes. • <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Energy management systems</span> (EMS) are installed on <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">locomotives to optimize fuel consumption and emissions.</span> An EMS would receive information on track profile and conditions, speed limits, train length and weight, locomotive engine fuel performance characteristics, locomotive health monitoring systems, etc. Conceptual work has been done on EMS, but a prototype system has not yet been implemented. • <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Car on-board commodity sensors</span> are being installed on freight cars <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to monitor the status of the commodities being carried</span> – measuring, for example, temperatures, pressures, vibrations, load position, radiation, gases, and biohazards. • <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Intelligent weather systems</span> consist of networks of local weather sensors and instrumentation – <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">both wayside and on-board locomotives – combined with national, regional, and local forecast data to alert train control centers, train crews, and maintenance crews of actual or potentially hazardous weather conditions</span>. • Security systems consisting of closedcircuit television cameras and infrared presence detectors are being deployed at bridges and tunnels, and even on some locomotives, to provide detection of intruders and obstructions. Appropriate information would be transmitted via data link to train control centers and train and maintenance crews in addition to security forces. • Emergency notification systems installed at train control centers provide for the automated notification of all involved organizations following railroad accidents, incidents, or threats. The implementation of net-centric railroading with intelligent railroad systems is not without impediments – the competition for capital within railroad companies, for example. Railroad companies need to understand, though, that a well-executed investment in intelligent railroad systems should reduce the capital needed for locomotives, cars, and tracks. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Net-centric railroading should enable railroads to manage </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">unexpected situations</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> by providing real-time information about current operations and the current environment. The DoD’s</span> [<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">net-centric capabilities</span>], as well as commercial railroad customers, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">could benefit significantly from improvements in visibility, running time, and service reliability </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">resulting from the implementation of </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">n</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">et-</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">c</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">entric </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">r</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ailroading</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>

Finally, we solve their sealift internal link better – improving the Strategic Rail Corridor Network is the critical internal link into rapid deployment. It’s also key to DoD __use__ of ports, which means we access their shipbuilding industry impacts at a prior level.
John <span class="Cite">Pike</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, January 10th, 20</span><span class="Cite">12</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (director of GlobalSecurity.org, </span>“Strategic Rail Corridor Network (STRACNET),”<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm]]</span> >:)</span>

During the Great War, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">getting the troops to their training centers, then to ports of embarkation, and finally across the Atlantic was such a mammoth undertaking and had to be executed on such an emergency basis that confusion and mismanagement could hardly have been unexpected</span>. To co-ordinate rail transportation, the government established a <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm|Railway]]</span> War Board, which later became the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm|Railroad]]</span> Administration, but so congested did the railroads become that the government eventually seized and ran them through the Railroad Administration. Under its Railroads and Highways for National Defense program, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">DOD</span>, with the support of the Department of Transportation (DOT), [<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">must</span>] <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ensure</span>s <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the Nation's rail</span> and highway <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"><span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm|infrastructure]]</span> can support defense emergencies. The Strategic Rail Corridor Network (STRACNET) consists of 38,800 miles of <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm|rail lines]]</span> important to national defense and provides service to 193 defense installations whose mission requires <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm|rail service]]</span>. The military places heavy</span> and direct <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">reliance on railroads to integrate bases and connect installations to</span> predominantly maritime <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ports of embarkation.</span> Mainlines, connectors, and clearance lines must all combine to support movement of heavy and/or oversized equipment. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">To ensure that military needs are factored into railroad industry decisions that may impact on national defense, the Department of Defense relies on the Military Traffic Management Command (MTMC).</span> In this capacity, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">MTMC [which] identifies facilities of the railroad infrastructure important to national defense, informs the commercial and civil sectors of Defense needs, and encourages the retention and upkeep of railroad assets vital to support military movements. To ensure this continuity and coordination, MTMC has created the [STRACNET]</span> Strategic <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm|Rail Corridor]]</span> Network (STRACNET). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">STRACNET has identified 32,500 miles of rail line critical for movement of essential military equipment</span> to ports located <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">around the country as well as another 5,000 miles of track essential to connect one facility to another.</span>In addition to identifying key lines and facilities, MTMC also conducts analysis of potential railroad industry construction, mergers, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">bankruptcies, and abandonments</span> to determine how any of these actions <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">may affect [and] DOD mobility capabilities</span>. Since 1976, MTMC has reviewed more than 2,100 abandonments affecting 33,000 miles of track, as well as eight bankruptcies affecting more 1/3 of the nation's <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm|railroad network]]</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">MTMC analysis and reviews are the main source of DOD input to the railroad industry in attempts to preclude the loss of a critical section of track or facility that is essential to effective movement of heavy military lift requirements.</span> The Railroads for National Defense Program (RND) ensures the readiness capability of the national railroad network to support defense deployment and peacetime needs. The Program works to integrate defense rail needs into civil sector planning affecting the Nation's railroad system. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rail <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm|transportation]]</span> is extremely important to DOD</span> since <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the predominance of our heavy and tracked vehicles will deploy by rail to seaports of embarkation.</span> The RND Program in conjunction with <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the US</span><span class="SmalltextChar"> Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">established the Strategic Rail Corridor Network (STRACNET) to ensure[s] DOD's minimum rail needs are identified and coordinated with appropriate transportation authorities. </span><span class="SmalltextChar">STRACNET is an interconnected and continuous rail</span> line network consisting of over 38,000 miles of track serving over 170 defense installations.

==Wind DA== 

Wind power supplies less than 1% of electricity now
Christopher <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cotter</span>**</span>, published 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">07</span>**</span> (JD candidate @ University of Dayton School of Law, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Comment: Wind Power and the Renewable Portfolio Standard: An Ohio Analysis,”</span> 32 Dayton L. Rev. 405, l/n)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wind power currently supplies less than 1% of electricity consumption in the United States.</span> n6<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">However, wind power could potentially supply about 20% of the nation's electricity</span>. n7 Both state and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">federal lawmakers have enacted legislation aimed at increasing the development of wind power.</span> n8 These incentives include tax breaks, grants, and a policy known as the Renewable Portfolio Standard ("RPS" or "RPS policy"). n9

The plan’s modernization of inland waterways is crucial to wind energy
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">NEED</span>**</span>, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">09</span>**</span> (National Energy Education Development Project, releases publications by experts to inform students and teachers about renewable energy, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Energy and Our Rivers,”</span> http://www.riverworksdiscovery.org/downloads/need_curriculum/StudentBackgrounder.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">How does the energy industry utilize the inland waterway system? • Coal: The barge industry transports 20 percent of the coal consumed in the U.S., enough to generate 10 percent of the electricity used each year. • Petroleum: Over 130 million tons of petroleum and petroleum products are shipped along the nation’s rivers. This accounts for 22 percent of the nation’s petroleum supply. • Ethanol: </span><span class="Underline">River barges carry 10 percent of the nation’s ethanol supply</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. • </span>Wind: Up to 18 turbine blades can be stacked on a single barge. Transporting wind turbine parts by barge is expected to grow. Not only does<span class="Underline"> the energy </span>industry transport raw materials on the rivers, but<span class="Underline"> they </span>also transport parts needed at power plants, such as generators and boilers. There continues to be<span class="Underline"> a </span>growing demand for inland navigation<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, and economists estimate that there will be a 35 percent increase in the next 20 years. </span>To<span class="Underline"> continue to be successful in transporting materials to </span>meet<span class="Underline"> consumers’ </span>demand<span class="Underline">, the inland waterway </span>infrastructure needs to be modernized<span class="Underline"> and maintained</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is responsible for maintaining nearly 12,000 miles of commercially navigable waterways, and 207 lock chambers at 171 lock sites. </span>Most<span class="Underline"> of the 207 </span>lock chambers<span class="Underline"> were built in the 1930s and </span>were only designed for a life of 50 years. More than half of the locks and dams<span class="Underline"> operated by the Corps </span>are over 50<span class="Underline"> years old.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> About 2,000 of the United States’ 74,000 dams are owned by the federal government. </span><span class="Underline">These structures are also aging, with dams averaging 40 years old. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Other entities responsible for maintaining waterways are facing similar challenges. To address the problem of an aging inland waterway infrastructure, the Inland Waterways Trust Fund (IWTF) was established. This fund was created and is maintained through a 20-cent per gallon fuel tax. These monies, almost $100 million a year, support half of the capital construction and rehabilitation of the locks and dams on the waterways. The other half is federally funded. In recent years, projects have seen many significant delays and cost overruns. This has hindered the progress toward modernizing the inland waterway system. The Inland Waterways Users Board is working with representatives of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to prioritize the needs for the inland navigation system, developing reasonable costs and a strategy to make sure funding stays closer to budget and that projects are completed on time. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided over $400 million in stimulus funds for projects to construct and improve locks and dams. This money does not have to be matched by the IWTF. However, it is estimated that projects currently under construction or ready to begin would require approximately seven billion dollars. Given current funding practices and trends between IWTF and the government, these projects would take 40 years to complete. </span>If the inland waterway system is not modernized, it may force cargo to be shipped by other methods.<span class="Underline"> The U.S. highway system is already congested in many areas and the railway lines are near capacity</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Accordingly, </span>moving cargo from barges to trucks or trains could be challenging<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The amount of cargo transported on rivers is equivalent to 58 million truck trips annually, which would double the number of tractor trailers currently on the interstates and require significant upgrades to highways. If river cargo was moved to the railway, it would add almost 25 percent more tonnage to the railway system. Not only would </span>diverting barge cargo loads<span class="Underline"> to railways and highways</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> have a physical impact to the capacity and maintenance of these systems, it </span>would<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> also </span>have an environmental impact<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The amount of fuel required to ship cargo varies between each transportation mode. </span><span class="Underline">One ton of cargo can be shipped 59 miles by truck using one gallon of fuel. That same gallon can move one ton of cargo 202 miles by rail, and 514 miles by barge. Shipping goods by barge is energy efficient and releases fewer carbon dioxide emissions</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> than the other options. </span>Accidents can occur<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> while transporting some environmentally hazardous materials. There are fewer accidents and fuel spills by barge than by rail and truck. </span><span class="Underline">The inland shipping industry works closely with the Coast Guard to ensure the safety of its workers and the environment. Since 1994, oil spills in the inland shipping industry have been reduced by 82 percent. From Native American canoes to contemporary barges and towboats, rivers have played an important part in America’s growth and commerce. River transportation also plays a vital role in our country’s energy picture, moving many of our natural energy resources</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> to plants and refineries allowing us to put these sources to work.</span>

Specifically, modernized waterways are key to access wind farms in hard-to-navigate locations – rail and roads can’t sustain the wind industry
Brad <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hall</span>**</span>, April 16th, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">09</span>**</span> (American Commercial Lines’ Vice President, General Manager Dry Cargo, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Inland waterways have an abundance of unused capacity,”</span> <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.pes.eu.com/assets/misc/ask-the-experts-american-commercial-linespdf-79.pdf]]</span> >:)
PES: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Often, wind farms are sited in hard-to-navigate locations</span> – how do you overcome this? BH: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The advantage of transporting blades and towers by barges is that you do not require police escorts or spotting trucks carrying “wide load” signs</span> as you do with trucking. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Barges navigate the inland waterways quietly</span> and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">consistently without</span> the hassle of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">special permitting associated with many over-the-road moves or restrictions on rail dimensional moves</span>. ACL has strategic partnerships <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that enable us to provide complete multi-modal to wind farms, and we will coordinate every aspect of a move from the factory to the wind farm.</span> We are prepared to deliver for our customers wherever the destination may be. PES: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The wind industry is growing at an astounding rate</span> – what measures are you putting in place to ensure that your company capitalises upon this? BH: ACL is actively marketing our services to the wind power industry, and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we continue to invest</span> in our fleet <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to ensure that we have the equipment to meet the growing demand</span>. PES: In this issue of PES we’re focussing on the booming renewable energy industry in the US. Your company is inextricably linked to this sector – what are your observations/predictions? BH: ACL looks forward to continuing <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to provide complete transportation solutions to the wind power industry that provide significant savings for our customers, as well as great benefits for our environment. As the cost[s], congestion and delays associated with rail and trucks continue to increase, the cost savings, environmental benefits and service reliability of barging make it the natural, logical and more sustainable course today and for the future.</span>

Wind power is bad – disrupts US warning radars and missile defense systems
DoD <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">R&E</span>**</span>, written 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">06</span>**</span> (Office of the Director of Defense Research and Engineering, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“The Effect of Windmill Farms on Military Readiness,”</span> <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/windfarmreport.pdf]]</span> >:)
There is growing public and private sector interest in <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">generating electrical power using wind energy</span>. According to the Department of Energy, over 60,000 megawatts of wind power capacity is in operation worldwide with over 10,000 megawatts installed in the United States. These <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">systems are largely comprised of installations of up to several hundred wind turbines with rotating blades reaching to heights of up to 500 feet. The numbers, height and rotation of these wind turbines present technical challenges to the effectiveness of radar systems</span> that must be carefully evaluated on a case-by-case basis to ensure acceptable military readiness is maintained. For many cases, processes are in place to allow responsible federal authorities to complete determination of acceptability of wind turbine impacts on military readiness. However, since <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">wind energy use in the United States is dramatically increasing</span>, research and interagency coordination <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is</span> warranted to enhance capability for completing timely determinations and developing measures for mitigating readiness impacts. This report focuses on the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">effects of wind farms on</span> air defense and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">missile warning radars</span> and the resulting potential <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">impact on military readiness</span>. Its scope is limited to these specific subjects and is based on the current level of understanding regarding interactions between such defense systems and state-of-the-art wind turbines. The report begins with a brief introduction of the key principles of radar systems, describes in what circumstances <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">wind farms</span> might <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cause problems for the Department</span> and under what circumstances such wind farms would not cause problems. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Radar test results from multiple flight trials near wind farms performed by the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence are discussed.</span> The results from those flight trials documented that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">state-of-the-art utility-class wind turbines can have a significant impact on the operational capabilities of military</span> air <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">defense radar systems</span>. The results demonstrated that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the large radar cross section of a wind turbine combined with the Doppler frequency shift produced by its rotating blades can impact the ability of a radar to discriminate the wind turbine from an aircraft. Those tests also demonstrated that the wind farms have the potential to degrade target tracking capabilities as a result of shadowing and clutter effects.</span>

Missile defense is key to deter and deny all missile threats – specifically, solves war with North Korea and Syrian bioweapons use
Robert <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Pfaltzgraff,</span>** **<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">et al</span>**</span>, January 30th, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">09</span>**</span>, PhD and professor of international security studies at Tufts, president of the IFPA, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Missile Defense, the Space Relationship & the Twenty-First Century,” </span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]]</span>


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Twenty-first century threats to the United States, its de­ployed forces, and its friends and allies differ fundamental­ly from those of the Cold War. An unprecedented number of international actors havenow acquired –or are seeking to acquire – missiles. These include not only states, but also non-state groups interested in obtaining missiles with nucle­ar or other payloads. The spectrum encompasses the missile arsenals already in the hands of Russia and China, as well as the emerging arsenals of a number of hostile states</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The character of this threat has also changed. Unlike the Soviet Union, these newer missile possessors do not attempt to match U.S. systems, either in quality or in quantity. In­stead, their missiles are designed to inflict major devasta­tion without necessarily possessing the accuracy associated with the U.S. and Soviet nuclear arsenals of the Cold War.1The warning time that the UnitedStatesmight have be­forethedeploymentof such capabilitiesby a hostile state, or even a terroristactor,is eroding as a result ofseveral fac­tors, including the continued proliferation and widespread availability of technologies to build missiles and the result­ing possibility that an entire system might be purchased out­right.</span> Would-be possessors do not have to engage in the pro­tracted process of designing and building a missile. They could purchase and assemble components, reverse-engineer a missile after having purchased a prototype, or immediately acquire a number of assembled missiles. Even missiles that are primitive by U.S. standards might suffice for a rogue state or terrorist organization seeking to inflict extensive damage upon the United States. As the Rumsfeld Commission point­ed out in its 1998 report: Rogue States <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">North Korea In the years since the surprise launch of its three-stage Tae­po Dong 1 missile over Japan in August 1998,North Korea has made substantial advances in its ballistic missile capabilities andnow possesses the largest ballistic missile force in the developing world, according to Jane’s Information Group.3 Pyongyang has engaged in extensive efforts to conceal the size and scope of its ballistic missile programs, though es­timates suggest that it may have deployed as many as 1000 ballistic missiles, including some 600-800 Scud-type short-range rockets, between 150 and 200 medium-range No Dong missiles, and 50 other longer-range missiles.</span>4 In 2003, North Korea lifted its self-imposed 1999 mora­torium on long-range missile testing.5 In July 2006, the Kim Jong-il regime fired a Taepo Dong 2 long-range missile as part of a series of missile tests.6 While the 2006 test failed 40 seconds after launch, it signified a considerable advance in the development of North Korea’s extended-range missile capability. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Congressional Research Service has indicat­ed that the Taepo Dong 2’s design would allow it to deliver a 1,500-kilogram warhead to targets as far as 8,000 kilometers away.7 According to 2005 testimony by Vice Admiral Low­ell Jacoby, USN (Ret.), former director of the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA),Pyongyang’sTaepo Dong 2mis­sile “could deliver a nuclear warhead toparts ofthe UnitedStates in a two-stage variant and target all of North Ameri­ca with a three-stage variant.”8He also stated that North Ko­rea had achieved the ability to arm a missile with a nuclear device. North Korea has had a declared nuclear capability since 2005.</span>10 In 2008, North Korean officials admitted that 37 ki­lograms of plutonium had been produced at the Yongbyon reactor, enough for as many as nine nuclear weapons.11 American assessments suggest that the actual amount of plutonium produced is likely much higher and that as much as 60 kilograms could have been extracted.12 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Based upon this judgment,North Korea may have as many as 15 nucle­ar weapons, though most estimates in the U.S. intelligence community place the number at around ten</span>.13 The extent of North Korea’s uranium enrichment program is not well known, but Pakistani nuclear scientist Abdul Qadeer (A.Q.) Khan stated that he had provided uranium enrichment equipment to Pyongyang.14 In 2002, DPRK First Vice For­eign Minister Kang Sok-ju admitted that North Korea was pursuing a uranium-enrichment program, the clear impli­cation being that the program was meant for weapons pro­duction.15 An operational North Korean uranium program could have the capability to add as many as six additional nuclear weapons a year to Pyongyang’s arsenal.16 A resolu­tion to the North Korean nuclear weapons dilemma has yet to be achieved, despite the various efforts to use the six-par­ty talks and other efforts for this purpose.17 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Iran Withthe benefit ofassistance fromabroad, includingNorth Korea and Pakistan, the Islamic Republic ofIran has moved forward with its ballistic missile program. Iran has had a demonstrated tactical ballistic missile capability since the 1980s, but in June 2003 it marked a major milestone when it deployed its 1,300-kilometer-range Shahab-3, capable of targeting Israel and Turkey, as well as U.S. forces in the Per­sian Gulf.18 Since then, Iran has begun “mass production” of This work has yielded impor­tant dividends: in September 2007, Iran publicly unveiled a “new” medium-range ballistic missile, the Ghadr-1, at a mil­itary parade in Tehran.</span> This missile, which Iran claims has a range of 1,800 kilometers, appears to be an extended-range variant of the Shahab-3.21 Subsequently, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in November 2007, Iran carried out a test of its Ashoura missile, a 2,000-kilo­meter-range solid fuel variant of the Shahab.22 These steps are part of what U.S. officials believe is a growing emphasis in Tehran on the development of an inter­continental ballistic missile capability.</span> As John Rood, then-acting assistant secretary of state for international security and nonproliferation, told Congress in May 2007, “The In­lah, Hamas, and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The transfer of the Shahab 3 into the Pasdaran, in lieu of the Artesh, suggests that Ira­nian missile technologies could find their way into terrorist hands as part of Tehran’s ongoing sponsorship of terrorist activities. Intelligence Community assesses thatIran would be able to develop an ICBM capable of reaching the UnitedStates and all regions of Europebefore 2015if it chose to do so.</span> And, I would point out that Iran has acquired ballistic missiles from North Korea in the past and note the possibility that it could do so again in the future, potentially acquiring mis­siles with even longer ranges.”23 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As a result of these advanc­es, it is likely that Iran could field an intercontinental ballis­tic missile by the middle of the next decade.24 Iran may have conducted tests to determine whether its ballistic missiles, notably the Shahab-3 or the Scud, could be detonated by re­mote control while still in flight.</span> The significance of such a capability lies in its potential to launch an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack, discussed later in this section. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This effort is closely linked to Iran’s growing interest in space. In October 2005, Iran became the first space nation in the Muslim world when it launched a surveillance satellite on a Russian rocket from Russia’s missile base at Plesetsk.25 Since then, Iran has made great strides toward development of an indigenous space launch capability.</span> In February 2007, it successfully carried out an initial test of a “space rocket” built in Iran.26 A year later unveiled its first space center, with Tehran claiming that it had now “joined the world’s top 11 countries possessing space technology to build satel­lites and launch rockets into space.”27 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">These advances ampli­fy and expand Iran’s ballistic missile program, since a space-launch vehicle (SLV) is similar in technology and function to the booster on an intercontinental ballistic missile. The threat posed by Iran’s ballistic missile program is closely linked to Tehran’s nuclear effort.</span> Since it was pub­licly exposed by an Iranian opposition group in August 2002, Since December 2007 Iran has built a stockpile of low-enriched uranium hexafloride. According to the IAEA, Iran’s stockpile had reached more than 1000 pounds by August 31, 2008, with monthly production rates of more than 100 pounds. In 2009 this could give Iran at least 1,500 pounds that could be recirculated through its centrifuges to pro­duce the 35 pounds of weapon-grade uranium sufficient for one bomb.31 In April 2008, Iranian president Mahmoud Ah­madinejad disclosed that his government had begun to in­stall another 6,000 centrifuges at the Natanz facility.32 Ira­nian leaders have taken this to be a critical milestone. “The nuclear issue (of Iran) is the most important political devel­opment in contemporary history,” Ahmadinejad announced to supporters at that time. “Iran’s victory in this biggest po­litical battle will lead to new international developments.”33 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Thusall indicators point towardthe development of anIra­nian nuclear capabilitywith varying estimatesnotaboutwhetherIran is doing so,butinsteadwhenit will have such weapons. There have also been reports that Iran as well as North Korea, and even terrorist groups, could have benefited from information from the notorious A.Q. Khan proliferation network. In 2006 drawings were discovered on computers owned by Swiss businessmen that included how to build a warhead that could be fitted on an Iranian ballistic missile. Whether these drawings were earlier passed on to Iran is not certain. The nuclear-related documents allegedly included hundreds of pages of specifications for a compact nuclear device that could have been designed for Iran.34</span> Other states already possess or are developing weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missiles. They include: Pakistan• , which has had a nuclear capability at least since 1998 and has extensive ballistic and cruise missile pro­grams. Pakistan possessed as many as 100 nuclear war­heads and continues to upgrade its missile forces. The country has made major advances in missile technology, especially considering that it presently lacks the domestic science and technology base for developing such weap­ons, which suggests that it has been very successful in acquiring technologies from abroad. At the moment, Pak­istan’s longest-range ballistic missile is the Hatf-6, which has a range of 2,000 kilometers. At that range, the Hatf-6 is nearing the 2,500 kilometer threshold which the Rums­feld Commission indicated would mark the existence of the technical base necessary for the development of long-range missile systems. While Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal and ballistic missiles are • ostensibly intended to deter Indian aggression, Pakistan’s domestic political situation is so turbulent that there is no guarantee that these weapons will be used strictly for that purpose. For example, under a radicalized regime such missiles could be used against U.S. forces and mili­tary installations in Afghanistan and Iraq. Despite Paki­stan’s cooperation in the War on Terror, serious questions exist as to whether elements in the Pakistani security services, in particular the Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), are actively working against U.S. inter­ests by supporting Afghan and Pakistani Taliban fighters in the Pakistani tribal areas. The fact that such powerful elements could be operating outside official Pakistani policy channels is frightening, even though ISI does not directly supervise the nuclear arsenal. Pakistan’s nuclear forces are overseen by the National Command Author­ 34 ity (NCA), and underwent a thorough security upgrade in 2003. Nevertheless, concerns remain about the com­mand and control of Pakistan’s nuclear forces. Particu­larly troubling is the level of sympathy for al-Qaeda and the Taliban within the junior and mid-level cadres of the Pakistani military as a result of fighting side-by-side with Islamists against Indian forces in Jammu and Kashmir. It is precisely these officers who are most likely to be pro­moted to sensitive positions in the years ahead. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Syria• , whichmaintains biological and chemical weapons capabilities and possesses a large inventory ofsurface-to-surfaceballistic missile systems, could delivercon­ventional and unconventionalwarheads to neighboring countriesin the Middle East.</span>35 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Syria has alsoshownmore than a passinginterest in acquiring a nuclearweaponscapability,as evidenced by the construction the Al-Kibar reactor site, which was subsequently destroyed by an Is­raeli Air Force strike in September 2007.The Central In­telligence Agency (CIA) has estimated that Damascus possesses hundreds of free-rocket-over-ground (FROG) missiles, Scud missiles, and SS-21 short-range ballistic missiles (SRBMs).36 Syria also maintains the indigenous capability to manufacture liquid-fuel Scuds.</span>37 In Septem­ber 2003 testimony before the House of Representatives Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia, then-Under Secretary of State John Bolton outlined <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">thatSyria “is fully committed to expandingand improvingitsCW [chemical weapons] program” and “is continuing to de­velop anoffensive biological weapons capability.”38 Syr­ia’s mobile missile force iscapable of targetingmuch ofIsrael,as well as parts ofIraq, Jordan, and Turkey, and it has “developed a longer-range missile – the Scud-D – with assistance from North Korea” while simultane­ously pursuing “both solid- and liquid-propellant mis­sile programs.”</span>39 Egypt• , which is engaged in a clandestine effort to acquire WMD and ballistic missile technologies. Egypt has been a primary destination for North Korea’s ballistic missile exports and has received shipments of Scud B and C mis­ 35 siles, as well as No Dong missiles.40 Inspections by the IAEA have uncovered plutonium traces at Egyptian nu­clear facilities, increasing international concern about clandestine nuclear development efforts on the part of the Mubarak regime.41 The IAEA has also criticized Cairo for failing to declare certain nuclear materials and sites, one of which was a facility for separating plutonium that could be used in an atomic weapon.42 Saudi Arabia• , which will undoubtedly find a nuclear weapons program a more attractive option if Iran achieves nuclear status and may already be pursuing a nuclear hedging strategy. Under an agreement signed during the October 2003 visit to Islamabad by Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah, Riyadh reportedly gained access to Pakistani nuclear technologies in exchange for stepped-up energy cooperation and improved strategic relations with Pak­istan.43 While Saudi Arabia has denied that it is devel­oping a nuclear weapons capability, it has been granted “small quantities protocol” status from the IAEA, which removes strict oversight of its nuclear reactor and could potentially facilitate the clandestine pursuit of nuclear weapons.44 Riyadh, meanwhile, was reported to be seek­ing modern replacements from China for its aging arse­nal of CSS-2 missiles originally purchased from China more than a generation ago.45 Strategic Competitors People’s Republic of China According to the Defense Department, “China has the most active ballistic missile program in the world. It is develop­ing and testing offensive missiles, forming additional missile units, qualitatively upgrading certain missile systems, and developing methods to counter ballistic missile defenses.”46 PRC missile modernization efforts build upon current capa­bilities that encompass ballistic missiles able to target the United States as well as Japan and other regional U.S. allies. For example, China has over 46 Dong-feng 4, Dong-feng 5, and Dong-feng 31 intercontinental ballistic missiles, approx­imately 35 intermediate-range (Dong-feng 3, and Dong-feng 21) missiles, and hundreds of short-range rockets currently deployed.47 Between 990 and 1,070 SRBMs are deployed op­posite Taiwan, and the People’s Liberation Army is increasing this force by more than 100 missiles each year.48 At the same time, China is in the midst of a massive, multi-year strategic-military modernization program, encompassing air power, naval, and land force capabilities, air defense, and electron­ic-, information- and space-warfare technologies.49 As part of this effort, China is upgrading its existing bal­listic missile arsenal. This includes the deployment of its Dong-feng 31 and Dong-feng 31A ICBMs with multiple inde­pendently targetable re-entry vehicle (MIRV) warhead tech­nology designed to defeat primitive anti-missile systems, priority solid-fuel propellant research intended to provide Beijing with immediate “launch on command” capabili­ties, and the transformation of its strategic offensive forc­es from large, stationary missiles to more versatile road- and rail-mobile variants. Notably, a successful flight test of China’s new submarine-launched version of the Dong-feng 31, the Julang 2, was conducted in June 2005.50 The Julang 2 has a range of up to 9,600 kilometers and, according to the U.S. Air Force’s National Air Intelligence Center, “will, for the first time, allow Chinese [missile submarines] to target portions of the United States from operating areas located near the Chinese coast.”51 These capabilities are even more troubling in light of remarks made by Chinese Major Gener­al Zhu Chenghu, who declared that nuclear weapons would have to be used if the United States intervened militarily in a conflict over Taiwan.52 In addition, China has also begun to undermine Ameri­can space dominance and is developing asymmetrical op­tions to exploit perceived U.S. vulnerabilities in space. These include a variety of space-denial capabilities, as well as space assets and launch systems that will significantly augment Beijing’s space operations. For example, in the wake of its successful October 2003 launch of the Shenzhou V space­craft, China is developing advanced military capabilities as part of an exo-atmospheric “deterrent” force even while Bei­jing warns against any U.S. weaponization of space. In Jan­uary 2007, China successfully destroyed a Chinese weather satellite using a direct-ascent, anti-satellite weapon, indi­cating its ability to attack satellites operating in low-earth orbit. Beyond the hit-to-kill technology demonstrated in this operation, the PRC is also developing technologies to “jam, blind, or otherwise disable satellites.”53 China has also developed a range of “nano-satellite” technologies for spacewarfare, apparently for the purpose of crippling American space assets.54 Other Chinese advances in space include the Ziyuan 1 and Ziyuan 2 remote-sensing satellites and the develop­ment, through a joint venture between China’s Tsinghua University and the United Kingdom’s University of Surrey, of a constellation of seven mini-satellites (weighing between 101 and 500 kilograms) with 50-meter-resolution remote-sensing payloads.55 Furthermore, there is growing evidence that China is increasingly interested in developing an EMP capability, both as a theater weapon for use in a potential Taiwan conflict and as a strategic asset to counter the Unit­ed States.56 Beijing’s space achievements also include the Shenzhou VII, the third Chinese manned spaceflight, together with China’s first spacewalk in September 2008.57 In addition, China is working on in-orbit rendezvous and docking pro­cedures (which also have direct applications for ASAT and space-denial missions), and exploring the prospects for a manned space station. The Shenzhou VII mission and space­walk will provide China with docking techniques required for the construction of a space station that will reportedly be accomplished by joining two Shenzhou vehicles togeth­er. Moreover, the PRC has an elaborate lunar exploration program that includes an unmanned moon lander, a sam­ple return mission, and an eventual human mission to the moon. For these missions, Beijing is developing a new Long March V booster. The timetables for the Chinese unmanned moon landing, a sample return mission, and a manned lunar mission are believed to be 2012, 2015, and 2017, respectively. China’s manned moon mission is approximately three years ahead of the U.S. target date for returning to the moon. Another extremely troubling development is the PRC’s increasing efforts in the realm of cyber warfare, particular­ly as a means to attack U.S. infrastructure, computers, and associated networks. Such asymmetrical efforts underscore Beijing’s understanding of the increasing role played in U.S. military operations by command, control, communication, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR) systems. The objective of the PRC is to establish elec­tronic dominance early in any conflict scenario in order to disrupt and downgrade the utility of such assets, while si­multaneously taking steps to ensure that an adversary can­not deny China access to its own information systems.58 The inescapable conclusion is that Chinese strategic force mod­ernization, space denial and anti-access capabilities, and cyber warfare activities provide clear evidence of a strategy aimed at degrading the ability of the United States to proj­ect power and support its allies in the region and thus un­dermining the credibility of the U.S. extended deterrent. To address these challenges, the United States must ensure that it remains the preeminent space power. Russian Federation With the collapse of the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub­lics (USSR), the Russian Federation inherited the sprawling Soviet ballistic missile apparatus, which includes medium- and long-range solid- and liquid-fueled missiles. Presently, Moscow retains a formidable offensive strategic arsenal – the cornerstone of which is the SS-18 Satan ICBM, slated to remain in combat service for the next ten or fifteen years.59 However, Russia’s principal ballistic missile of the future is the Topol ICBM, which has recently been deployed.60 The Russian military has created a highly maneuverable variant of this missile, the Topol M, which has MIRV warhead tech­nology. Beyond the Topol M, Russia appears to be continu­ing with the development of the RS-24, which is capable of being equipped with as many as 10 warheads.61 The RS-24 has been successfully tested on several occasions.62 The Rus­sian <span style="font-size: 8px;">Navy</span> has also continued flight tests of its Bulava sea-launched strategic missile system, which has a range of at least 8,000 kilometers and can carry ten or more MIRV war­heads, with varying degrees of success.63 Over the past several years, Russia has substantially al­tered its strategic posture. In late 2003, Russia unveiled a new military doctrine lowering the bar on the use of nu­clear force to protect Russian interests in its “near abroad” of Central Asia and the Caucasus.64 Then-President Vladi­mir Putin announced the end of Russian force reductions and launched massive exercises of the country’s strategic forces.65 Russia has also announced that it will discontin­ue missile-launch notifications to other signatories of the Hague Code of Conduct on missile proliferation. Moscow and Beijing have held joint military exercises on one anoth­er’s territory and continue to strengthen military ties with other countries in the region, by way of the Shanghai Coop­eration Organization.66 These steps are seen by Moscow as a hedge against Western encroachment into countries on its periphery and a means to blunt the emerging American missile defense system. These trends are likely to continue under the Medvedev administration, as power in Russia ap­pears to have shifted to the prime minister’s office, now oc­cupied by Putin. The Dangers This itemized list of advances in ballistic missile capabil­ities in recent years, if viewed individually, might still un­derstate the dangers to the United States and its allies. The proliferation of ballistic missile capabilities by potential enemies, both states and non-state actors, must be viewed more broadly. It carries with it the implication that America and its allies may face coalitions of missile powers as addi­tional states acquire such capabilities. For example, Russia or China could decide to back North Korea in a confronta­tion with South Korea, Japan, and the United States. Like­wise, U.S. allies may drop out in the face of such a combined threat stemming from enemy coalitions whose members are armed with ballistic missiles, thus possibly confronting the United States with the larger missile threat presented by such a combination of missile possessors. Furthermore, in an emerging multi-polar world where ballistic missile and nuclear proliferation create an increasingly complex coali­tion dynamic, the unpredictability factor increases dramat­ically and must be addressed. The analogy of two scorpions in a bottle that characterized the U.S.-Soviet confrontation in the Cold War is giving way to multiple scorpions in a bot­tle, with all the complexity, unpredictability, and danger that this possibility implies.<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Asymmetric Threats Asymmetric threats by rogue states and strategic compet­itors pose growing and compounding dangers to the Unit­ed States and its allies. WMD Terrorism An increasing number of terrorist groups are making con­certed efforts to acquire WMD.67</span> As long ago as 1994, ists affiliated with Iran’s Islamic Jihad Organization made a serious bid to buy an atomic bomb or fissile material from one of Russia’s crumbling “nuclear cities.”68 More recently, the 9/11 Commission explicitly warned that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Al-Qaeda remains extremely interested in conductingchemical,biological, ra­diological,or nuclear attacks.”</span>69 After the March 2003 arrest of 9/11 mastermind Khaled Sheikh Mohammed, investiga­tions revealed that terrorists had obtained materials for pro­ducing botulinum and salmonella toxins and cyanide.70 Lebanon’s Hezbollah has also acquired menacing capa­bilities that were put on display during the 34-day war be­tween the Shiite militia and the Israeli Defense Forces in 2006 days of the war, when Hezbollah should have been weakened by Israel’s sustained military operations, mi­litiamen launched more rockets into Israel than at any oth­er. During the course of the conflict, Hezbollah man­aged to launch over 4,000 of its estimated 13,000 rockets into northern Israel.71 Particularly troubling is the fact that in the final time during the conflict, striking as deep into Israeli ter­ritory as Haifa. Since the 2006 war, Hezbollah has rearmed both quan­titatively and qualitatively, and Hezbollah Secretary Gen­eral Hassan Nasrallah has claimed that the group’s arsenal now includes rockets that can target anywhere in Israel. A 2007 United Nations report concludes that Hezbollah may now have as many as 10,000 long-range rockets and 20,000 short-range rockets.72 United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has suggested that Hezbollah is now capable of striking Israel’s main metropolis, Tel Aviv, and that the mi­litia has tripled its stockpile of C-802 land-to-sea missiles. The addition of longer-range missiles significantly challeng­es efforts to counter Hezbollah’s capabilities. As part of the ceasefire agreement that ended the hostilities in 2006, the Lebanese army and the United Nations Interim Force in Leb­ anon (UNIFIL) have assumed much greater responsibilities in disrupting Hezbollah activities south of the Litani River. In response, Hezbollah has simply moved many of its long-range missile launchers north of the Litani into areas of the Bekaa Valley where neither the Lebanese army nor UNIFIL patrol. Even in southern Lebanon, where the Lebanese Army and UNIFIL are ostensibly providing security, Hezbollah has been successful in rearming with anti-tank missiles and Katyusha rockets hidden in villages and camouflaged bun­kers, according to the Israel Defense Force (IDF).<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">73 The Ship-borne Scud Threat Among the threats outlined in the 1998 Rumsfeld Commis­sion Report is the one posed by ballistic missiles launched from vessels such as freighters, tankers, or container ships close to the American coastline. Such a danger has only in­creased in the past decade. In August 2004, then Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld emphasized that “One of the nations in the Middle East had launched a ballistic missile from a cargo vessel.</span> They had taken a short-range, probably Scud missile, put it on a transporter-erector launcher, lowered it in, tak­en the vessel out into the water, peeled back the top, erect­ed it, fired it, lowered it, covered it up. And the ship that they used was using a radar and electronic equipment that was no different than 50, 60, 100 other ships operating in the im­mediate area.”74 U.S. officials have suggested that Rumsfeld was referring to Iran, which tested a ship-launched missile in the late 1990s.75 This ship-borne ballistic capability could be used to launch EMP attacks from locations off the U.S. coastline with devastating effects (more below). Asymmetric Proliferation In 2002, writing in the Financial Times, Defense Science Board chairman William Schneider described the mechan­ics by which North Korea has managed to acquire nuclear capabilities as the quintessential “twenty-first century tem­plate for proliferation.” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The rapid, clandestine acquisition of critical mass in Pyongyang’s nuclear program, according to Schneider, reflects the existence of a vibrant, and self-sus­taining, proliferation architecture in today’s internation­al system.</span>76 Schneider was referring to what has now been deemed “second-tier proliferation,” whereby “states in the developing world with varying technical capabilities trade among themselves to bolster one another’s nuclear and stra­tegic weapons efforts.”77 North Korea is a prime example of this trend. The devel­opment of the Al-Kibar reactor in Syria, destroyed by an Is­raeli airstrike in September 2007, is believed to have been greatly aided by North Korea. In fact, North Korea went so far as to send personnel to help construct the reactor. Be­yond its nuclear proliferation efforts, the Kim Jong-Il regime has become a principal supplier of ballistic missile compo­nents and associated technologies to the Middle East. The Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI) estimates that North Korea has exported more than 1,000 Scud missiles along with mis­sile-related parts to the Middle East region. Missile exports, which net North Korea around $1.5 billion a year, constitute one of its largest sources of revenue. North Korea has since expanded this trade, and is now believed to be offering tech­nologies associated with its advanced Taepo Dong 2 ICBM to a number of regional client states, including Syria and Iran.78 Moreover, North Korea has sold missiles to Pakistan in exchange for nuclear technologies,a trade facilitated in large part by A.Q. Khan’s proliferation network (see below for more on A.Q. Khan).79 China has also used the transfer of nuclear and ballistic missile technologies as a tool of global influence and a mon­ey-making enterprise. Extensive Chinese assistance has been instrumental to North Korea’s development of the Taepo Dong 2, and it has played a central role in Pakistan’s development of nuclear capabilities. This cooperation has led to a trilater­al “proliferation axis” that has given Pakistan access to North Korean ballistic missiles and allowed Pakistani nuclear know-how to flow to North Korea.80 Chinese defense companies have also been complicit in aiding Iran’s progress on ballistic missile technology. The United States responded by impos­ing penalties on these companies for exporting to Iran highperformance metals and other components that can be used to extend the range of Tehran’s missile arsenal.81 Furthermore, such activities are not confined to state ac­tors. In late 2003, the discovery of the clandestine nucle­ar cartel headed by Pakistani scientist A.Q. Khan exposed an alarming web of WMD and ballistic missile prolifera­tion. Khan confessed that he had provided Libya, Iran, and North Korea with technical assistance and components for manufacturing high-speed centrifuges.82 The government of Pakistan also revealed that he “gave some centrifuges to Iran,” and U.S. intelligence officials believe that North Ko­rea purchased high-speed centrifuges from the Khan net­work.83 Perhaps most troubling was the discovery of a nu­clear weapon design in 2008 on the computer hard drives of several members of Khan’s network.84 The bomb design is a miniaturized implosion device cable of fitting on North Korea’s No Dong missiles, as well as Iran’s Shahab and Pak­istan’s Hatf-5 (Ghauri) missiles. Depending on how much the design allows for warhead size reduction, these coun­tries may be able to make significant advances in their MIRV warhead programs. The EMP Threat According to the 2004 report of the EMP Commission,85 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">faces a threat from EMP that could have cata­strophic consequences based on even a single nuclear war­head</span>. EMP is generated by any nuclear weapon burst at any altitude above a few dozen kilometers, with the height ofburst being significant in determining the area exposed to EMP. The EMP threat arises from the ability, whether by ter­rorists or states, to launch relatively unsophisticated mis­siles with nuclear warheads to detonate at altitudes from 40 to 400 kilometers above the earth’s surface. The rationale for such action would be the high political-military payoff in the form of devastating consequences. An EMP attack would constitute a highly successful asymmetric strategy against a society as heavily dependent as the United States is on electronics, energy, telecommunications networks, transportation systems, the movement of inventories in its manufacturing sector, and food processing and distribution capabilities. As noted in the EMP Commission report, EMP was an unintended result of a nuclear detonation at an al­titude of about 400 kilometers during the Starfish nuclear weapons tests above Johnstone Island in the Central Pacif­ic in 1962. The effects, felt some 1400 kilometers away in Ha­waii, included “the failure of street lighting systems, tripping of circuit breakers, triggering of burglar alarms, and damage to a telecommunications relay facility.” Nuclear tests con­ducted by the Soviet Union, also in 1962, produced damage to overhead and underground buried cables at distances as far away as 600 kilometers, together with surge arrest­er burnout, spark-gap breakdown, blown fuses, and power-supply breakdown.86 The destruction and mayhem caused by an EMP explosion would be far more substantial today given the ubiquity of electronics and society’s increased re­liance on them to run critical infrastructures. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Several potential enemies</span> either <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">already have</span>, or could soon acquire, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the capability to attack the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates with a high-altitude nuclear explosion EMP that would cover a wide geographic region. Such a weapon need not be deto­nated directly over the United States itself to produce ma­jor damage to America’s <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">critical infrastructures such as telecommunications, banking</span> and finance, fuel/<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">energy, transportation, food and water</span> supply, emergency servic­es, government activities, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span> space systems. U.S. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">satellites, both civilian and military, are vulnerable to</span> a range of at­tacks that include <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">EMP</span>, especially in low-earth orbits. Again, as the EMP Commission concluded, “The national security and homeland security communities use commercial satel­lites for critical activities, including direct and backup com­munications, emergency response services, and continuity of operations during emergencies.”87 Such satellites could be disabled by collateral radiation effects from an EMP at­tack on ground targets. Thus it is obvious that an interdependence exists between the objects of a potential EMP attack. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Disabling one of the infrastructures, such as telecommunications or electricity, would have severe consequences for others, with cascading effects from which an advanced, technologically dependent society such as the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">might not </span>easily <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">recover</span>. An EMP attack mounted against the United States would have far broader international consequences, given the in­terdependence of America and other economies in an era of globalization. An EMP attack against other economies, such as Japan or a European nation, would have major effects in the United States, and on other countries if the attack was on the United States. The services that would be essential to cope with the consequences of a terrorist attack, such as hospitals and emergency services, themselves might be dis­abled and therefore would not be available when and where they were most needed. As Senator John Kyl has pointed out, “A terrorist organization might have trouble putting a nu­clear warhead ‘on target’ with a Scud, but it would be much easier to simply launch and detonate in the atmosphere. No need for the risk and difficulty trying to smuggle a nuclear weapon over the border or hit a particular city. Just launch a cheap missile from a freighter in international waters – al-Qaeda is believed to own about eighty such vessels – and make sure to get it a few miles in the air.”88 Notably, Russia has considered attack options that in­clude EMP. During the May 1999 NATO air campaign against Serbia, members of the Russian Duma, meeting with U.S. congressional counterparts, reportedly speculated about the paralyzing effects of an EMP attack on the United States.89 To amplify on the Rumsfeld statement cited under “Ship-borne Scud Threat,” above, Iran is reported to have tested whether its ballistic missiles, such as the Shahab-3 or the Scud, could be detonated by remote control while still in high-altitude flight. The most plausible explanation for such tests is that Iran is developing the capability to explode a high-altitude nuclear weapon that could destroy critical electronic and technological infrastructures.90 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Without aneffective missile defense the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will remain vul­nerable to the EMP threat given its extensive dependence on high-tech, electronic infrastructure that cannot easily be hardened to withstand such an attack</span>. The ability to launch an incapacitating EMP strike against the United States pro­vides enemies with an asymmetric threat that would not only inhibit U.S. military action but would also strike a se­vere economic and psychological blow. The Response<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Given this multiplicity of ballistic missile threats, the Unit­ed States must deploy a missile defense that deters hostile states from developing or acquiring missile capabilities that could threaten the United States, its allies and coalition part­ners, and its forces deployed abroad. Furthermore, America’s missile defense R&D programs, together with planned de­ployments, must be sufficiently robust to dissuade would-be missile possessors from attempting to challenge the United States. Washington must deter future enemies from acquir­ing ballistic missiles, just as in the past it dissuaded them from developing strategic bombers because of America’s abil­ity to overwhelm such systems. Finally, U.S. missile defense must be capable of defeating those ballistic missiles, what­ever their range and type, that could be launched against the United States. U.S. and allied ballistic missile defense capabilities are an essential element of a broader damage limitation strat­egy.</span> The purpose of this strategy is to protect and defend the people, territory, infrastructure, and institutions of the United States and its allies to the greatest extent possible. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This strategy is a marked departure from the retaliation-based deterrence strategy of the Cold War. It is a strategy specifically tailored to meeting the security demands result­ing from the emerging multi-polar world, which has been brought about, at least in part, by the proliferation of bal­listic missiles and nuclear weapons. A mix of offensive and defensive strategic forces, which are modernized to meet the new and challenging requirements of this strategy, will be necessary.</span> Thus, a global and layered ballistic missile de­fense system must be intricately linked to other strategic forces, where the broader strategic posture of the U.S. and its allies results in security benefits that are greater than the sum of its parts. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As the United States dissuades future potential possess­ors, it must recognize that threats are increasing at a pace that no longer allows the luxury of long lead times within which a missile defense could be developed and deployed. Therefore, the UnitedStatesmust develop and rapidly fieldamissile defense with global reach, capable of coping with threatsagainst the United States and its forces and allies from any direction. At the same time, America must attempt to dissuade hostile actors from acquiring missiles by render­ing such investments a poor use of limited resources</span>. Ad­ditionally, given the uncertainty in predicting where, when, and by whom missiles might be launched – and what their targets may be – constant defenses are called for that are capable of intercepting missiles irrespective of their geo­graphic origin. Other things being equal, it is preferable to intercept threatening ballistic missiles as far away from their intend­ed targets and as early in their flight trajectory as possible. Best of all would be to have the capability to destroy an at­tacking missile shortly after it is launched, while its rockets still burn and any perturbation will lead to its destruction – with, in many cases, the debris falling back onto the area from which the attack was launched in the first place. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The ca­pability to interdict a missile and its warheads in any phases of their flight (boost, midcourse, and terminal)requires an ability to detectand interceptthe attack within a very few minutes and to track and destroy the attacking missile and its warheads during their longer midcourse traverse through spacebefore they reenter the atmosphere</span>. Finally, the last-ditch defense would be to destroy the attacking missiles as they reenter and pass through the atmosphere – and as ac­companying debris and decoys burn up on reentry – in the terminal phase en route to their targets. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The best defense ca­pability would be layered so that it could provide opportuni­ties for destruction in all three phases of flight</span>. Only space-based defenses inherently have this global capability and permanence. While sea-based defenses can move freely through the two-thirds of the earth’s surface that are oceans, their capability is limited by geography and by the specific operations of the fleet – including where the sea-based missile defense happens to be deployed at any given time, and how quickly it could be redeployed to meet a crisis situation. Air-based and ground-based defenses, meanwhile, can have global capabilities, but frequently take considerable time to deploy when and where needed and are also depen­dent on the cooperation of U.S. friends and allies in permit­ting the necessary supporting activities on their territories. Thus, only a space-based missile defense will possess both constancy and global availability, irrespective of allied sup­port and agreement. As such, space-based missile defense constitutes the only truly global system, with all the rest be­ing either regional or local.91<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In the case ofsea-based systems, namely the Aegis pro­gram discussed in section 2, we have a regional systemca­pable of boost-phase, midcourse, and terminal interceptde­pending on where and how it is positioned, or vectored. Ithas a near-global applicationfor regional operations,be­cause it issea-based and theoreticallyit can be deployed over any portion of the earth’s surface covered by oceans</span>. A land-based system can theoretically be deployed anywhere over about one-third of the world’s surface and, depending on how it is vectored, under some limited conditions would also be capable of boost-phase, midcourse, and terminal in­terception. Yet space-based missile defense alone is truly global in reach because of the medium in which it oper­ates, unconstrained by overflight or territorial restrictions. It also offers inherent interdiction advantages, described in greater detail below.

Korea war causes extinction
<span class="Underline">**Hayes and Hamel-Green, ‘10**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University – 1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,”** </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [H-Triv modified]</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The international community is increasingly aware that cooperative diplomacy is the most productive way to tackle the multiple, interconnected global challenges facing humanity, not least of which is the increasing proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. </span>__Korea and Northeast Asia are instances where risks of nuclear proliferation and actual nuclear use arguably have increased in recent years.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> This negative trend is a product of continued US nuclear threat projection against the DPRK as part of a general program of coercive diplomacy in this region, North Korea’s nuclear weapons programme, the breakdown in the Chinese-hosted Six Party Talks towards the end of the Bush Administration, regional concerns over China’s increasing military power, and concerns within some quarters in regional states (Japan, South Korea, Taiwan) about whether US extended deterrence (“nuclear umbrella”) afforded under bilateral security treaties can be relied upon for protection. </span>__The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments, and related political and economic issues, are serious__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, not only for the Northeast Asian region but </span>__for the whole international community.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> At worst, </span>__there is the__** __possibility of nuclear attack__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">1, </span>__whether by__** __intention, miscalculation, or merely accident**, leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities.**__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. </span>**__Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a [catastrophe] of unprecedented proportions.__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).</span>__The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but </span>__the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…</span>__The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">…To make matters even worse, </span>__such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. </span>__Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. </span>__The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could__** __make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison**.**__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. </span>__There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">5, </span>__with__** __subsequent nuclear breakout **and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and** aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states.**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community. </span>

Bioweapons cause extinction
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Richard J <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ochs</span>, 6-9-200<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2</span>, frmr president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project and a member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction [WMD], the genetically engineered <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">bio</span>logical <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">weapons</span>, many without a known cure or vaccine, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are an extreme danger to</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">continued survival of life on earth</span>. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. / While a "nuclear winter," resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control. Biological weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated. There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. Abolition of chemical weapons is less of a priority because, while they can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment. Like the Holocaust, once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With nuclear and biological weapons, the killing will probably never end. Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. / Potentially worse than that, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">bio</span>-engineered <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">agents</span> by the hundreds with no known cure <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">could wreck</span> even greater <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">calamity on the human race</span> than could persistent radiation. AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE</span>.</span>

==Elections DA== 

Obama will win now – things are looking good.
Mike <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Dorning</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">9-6</span>-12 (Bloomberg News, “Election Forecast Models Clouded by Economy’s Slow Growth”, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-09-06/election-forecast-models-clouded-by-economy-s-middling-growth :)

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Moody’s Analytics says its economic- forecastingmodel shows President Barack Obamawinning re- election with 303 electoral votes</span>. Economist Douglas Hibbs Jr., pointing to slow income growth, predicts a Mitt Romney victory. To Yale University’s Ray Fair, the race is simply “too close to call.” While the state of the U.S. economy is the No. 1 issue in the election, even nonpartisan forecasters who crunch data and claim to have predicted the results in past presidential races can’t agree on what impact it will have on the outcome. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Sophisticated models in the past have bolstered arguments that presidentialelections are mostly predetermined by theeconomy</span>. This time, some concede that the plodding recovery may not tilt the balance toward either candidate. Instead, the costly, cross-country political campaign, which these forecasters have dismissed as irrelevant, may tip the balance. “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">When you get down to that point, where I’m saying that it’s going to be decided by less than one percentage point, then it’s possible that the campaigns really do matter</span>,” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">said Alan Abramowitz, a political science professor at Emory University</span> in Atlanta <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">who developed one of the most-followed forecasting models</span>. U.S. companies added more workers than forecast in August, a private payroll services company reported this morning a day ahead of an official government report, offering hope that the labor market is improving. Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services reported a 201,000 in jobs, exceeding the 140,000 median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Economy’s Movement <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The economy’s condition heading into the election is clear right now: a slow recovery from the worst U.S. downturn since the Great Depression</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Economic growth this year is below normal for the post- World War II era, though stronger than when Dwight Eisenhower was re-elected in a 1956 landslide.</span> Even with unemployment at its highest in any election year since the war, joblessness has declined more over the past 12 months than during the same period of any postwar election year except 1984 and 1976. What matters most to voters isn’t the absolute state of the economy, it’s the trajectory, said Christopher Wlezien, a professor at Temple University in Philadelphia and co-author of the forthcoming book “The Timeline of Presidential Elections.” The election models point in different directions based on what their developers say influences voters the most. Battleground States <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Moody’s electoral vote projection, which assesses economic performance state by state, gives Obama the advantage, reflecting better circumstances in many of this year’s battlegrounds</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama wins Ohio, where the unemployment rate was 7.2 percent in July, below the 8.3 percent national average that month, and Virginia, where joblessness was at 5.9 percent, under the Moody’s projection.</span> Romney picks up Florida, where unemployment was 8.8 percent in July. The Republican challenger can expect victory under the “Bread and Peace” model developed by Hibbs, a retired professor who taught at Sweden’s University of Gothenburg. He says the drivers of voter opinion are war casualties and income growth. He forecasts Obama will receive 47.5 percent of the two- party vote to Romney’s 52.5 percent. The Afghanistan war has produced few casualties relative to the Vietnam and Korean wars. Too Close Yale’s Fair, who developed one of the first models to forecast elections based solely on economic indicators, projects Obama will win 49.5 percent of the two-party vote to Romney’s 50.5 percent, based on gross domestic product growth and inflation under the incumbent. That amounts to “too close to call” given an error margin of three percentage points, he said. Two models that weigh public opinion polls as well as economic data give Obama the advantage. Abramowitz’s “Time for Change,” based on GDP growth during the April-to-June quarter and presidential job approval in the Gallup Poll for the last three days of June, anticipates an Obama win with 50.5 percent of the two-party vote, with a 1.5 percentage-point margin of error. While some of the election modelers say polling data detracts from the goal of capturing how fundamental forces shape the vote, Abramowitz said he includes public opinion because “you get a much better forecast.” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Leading Indicators Wlezien and Robert Erikson, a political science professor at Columbia University, look to leading economic indicators through the first three months of the election year and an average of all polls of voter preferences</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Based on polling data for July, they predict a bigger Obama win</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">with 52.6 percent of the two-party vote and a 3.1 percentage-point margin of error</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Poll results move closer to the outcome suggested by the economy’s condition as the election year progresses and “voters increasingly take stock of things,”</span> Wlezien said.

The public doesn’t want more transportation infrastructure spending at bad economic times.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bernstein</span>, 11/01/20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">10</span> (Andrea – Director of the public radio Transportation Nation project, Wariness about spending on transportation and infrastructure accompanies voters to the polls, Transportation Nation, p. http://transportationnation.org/2010/11/01/wariness-about-spending-on-transportation-and-infrastructure-acompanies-voters-to-the-polls/)

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It’s been a rough election season</span> out there. Unless you’ve crawled into a cave for the last three months, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">you know the airwaves have been flooded with ads calling candidates everything from thieves to hooligans to rogues</span> and everything in between. But <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the sour voter mood isn’t just about advertisements</span> — <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it’s about reduced circumstances</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">drastic cuts in local government services</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">higher taxes and fees</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fewer jobs</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and dramatically higher health care costs</span> — <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">despite health care reform and an $800 billion stimulus bill</span>. Or as one Florida election volunteer Marcia told me in a largely African American neighborhood in Tampa last week: “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">People are disappointed</span>,” she said. “They thought they were going to have this magic wand that I’m going to save my home because we have Obama as President. And I’m going to have a job because we have Obama as President.” But then, people lost their jobs, and they lost their homes. “Where’s the change?” retired Hoovers vacuum worker Alice Prestier asked me in Canton, Ohio. Or, more bitterly, as one Colorado contractor told me in Loveland, Colorado: “I don’t need to spend $2,000 to support every illegal f*g Mexican in this country. Nor do I need to keep busting my ass for this government. You know, my son can’t ride the bus to school anymore. He’s got to walk two miles to school, explain that to me! You know, why does education have to go, but yet we can support illegals, we can piss money away on stuff that doesn’t’ matter, a health care plan that will never work?” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">All of which has created a wary public, seemingly unwilling to spend on big transit projects like the ARC tunnel, high speed rail, or even roads</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Even though the President has bracketed this campaign season with a call for $50 billion in additional spending on roads, rails, and airports</span> and the distribution, last week, of some $2.5 billion in high speed rail grants, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">kitchen-table cut backs have spilled over into an attitude aboutgovernment spending</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Where once voters seemed to have faith that large infrastructure projects would create jobs</span>, both in the long and short terms, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they now worry that worthy as projects may be, there simply isn’t enough money to spend on things like new transit</span> tunnels, high speed <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">rail</span> systems, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or even roads</span>.

Poor economic situations will swing the elections in Romney’s favor.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">New York Times</span>, 3/13/20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span> (Muddled Economic Picture Muddles the Political One, Too, p. http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/14/us/politics/economy-plays-biggest-role-in-obama-re-election-chances.html?_r=1)

The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">final major economic turning point of President Obama’s first term seems to have arrived</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The question is which way the economy will turn</span>. Job growth has picked up nicely in the last few months, raising the prospect that the American economy is finally in the early stages of a recovery that will gather strength over time. But with gas prices rising, the government cutting workers and consumers still deep in debt, some forecasters predict that economic growth — and with it, job growth — will slow in coming months. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Politically, the difference between the two situations is vast</span>. In one, Mr. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama will be able to campaign on a claim</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as he has recently begun to do, that the country is back on track</span>. In another, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">he will be left to explain that recoveries from financial crises take years</span>, and to argue that Republicans want to return to the Bush-era policies that created the crisis — as he tried to argue, unsuccessfully, in the 2010 midterm election. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">His approval rating has slipped again in some polls recently</span>, with higher gas prices possibly playing a role. As a result, the economic numbers over the next couple of months, including an unemployment report on April 6, will have bigger political implications than the typical batch of data. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Federal Reserve acknowledged the uncertainty in its scheduled statement on Tuesday, suggesting the economy had improved somewhat but still predicting only “moderate economic growth.”</span> Economists say the economy’s near-term direction depends relatively little on Mr. Obama’s economic policies. The standoff over Iran’s nuclear program, the European debt crisis and other events will most likely affect the economy more. But many American voters are still likely to make their decision based on the economy. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Historically, nothing</span> — not campaign advertisements, social issues or even wars — <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has influenced voters more heavily than the direction of the economy in an election year</span>. “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">If you could know one thing and you had to predict which party was going to win the next presidential election</span>,” Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at the University of California, Los Angeles, said, “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">you couldn’t do better than knowing the change in economic growth.”</span>

Romney will end cooperation with Russia on reducing nuclear arms.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Lyman</span>, 3/30/20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span> (John – editor-in-chief of International Policy Digest, Romney’s Foreign Policy and Russia, International Policy Digest, p. http://www.internationalpolicydigest.org/2012/03/30/romneys-foreign-policy-and-russia/)

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U.S.-Russian relations transcend the United Nations and other multilateral institutions</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The United States relies on Russian assistance in counterterrorism, Afghanistan, shoring up loose nuclear material in the former Soviet Republics, international narcotics trafficking, WMD proliferation and reducing American and Russian nuclear stockpiles, which has become a cause celeb for</span> Mr. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama</span>. Obama has calculated that the Russians would be amendable to significant reductions in their nuclear stockpiles if he negotiates with the Russians in good faith over missile defense. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This process was started several years ago in an effort to “reset” U.S.-Russian relations</span>, when Obama ordered a different configuration to the missile defense system – the European Phased Adaptive Approach (EPAA) – planned for construction in Eastern Europe. The original system envisioned a radar base that was to be built in the Czech Republic with interceptors housed in Poland. The EPAA is designed to intercept ballistic missiles launched from “rogue” nations from interceptors housed in Poland and now Romania. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Russians have been highly critical of the system first announced by the Bush administration as they claim it would undermine their own nuclear deterrent</span>. “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This is not a matter of hiding the ball,” </span>Mr. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama said</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“I want to see us gradually, systematically reduce reliance on nuclear weapons</span>.” Now that Mr. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Romney has antagonized the Russians,he might find it difficult to negotiate with them over a whole host of issues</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">much less getting Russia on board</span> with prodding the Iranians to return to the negotiating table or facilitating America’s withdrawal from Afghanistan if he defeats Mr. Obama in November.

Cooperation on nuclear–arms reduction is key to survival – Russia remains the elephant in the room.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Collins and Rojansky</span>, ’<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">10</span> (Ambassador James F. Collins is director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, is an expert on the former Soviet Union, its successor states, and on the Middle East, was the U.S. ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001, before appointment as ambassador to Russia he served as ambassador-at-large and special adviser to the secretary of state for the New Independent States in the mid 1990s and as deputy chief of mission and chargé d'affaires at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow from 1990 to 1993, in addition to three diplomatic postings in Moscow, he also held positions in the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan, and the Consulate General in Izmir, Turkey, he is recipient of the Secretary of State's Award for Distinguished Service; the Department of State's Distinguished Honor Award; the Secretary of State’s Award for Career Achievement; the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service; and the NASA Medal for Distinguished Service, Ambassador Collins has been active on the boards of non-profit organizations concerned with U.S. foreign policy and U.S. relations with Russia, East Europe, and Eurasia, has served as a member of the board of the U.S.-Russia Business Council, the American Academy of Diplomacy, the Open World Leadership Center, and American Councils for International Education, is also a member of the advisory board of the Civilian Research and Development Foundation and the Library of Foreign Literature in Moscow, before joining the State Department, Collins taught Russian and European history, American government, and economics at the U.S. Naval Academy / Matthew Rojansky is the deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment, expert on U.S. and Russian national security and nuclear weapons policies, his work focuses on relations among the United States, NATO, and the states of the former Soviet Union, Rojansky is an Adjunct Professor at American University in Washington, D.C. and a participant in the Dartmouth Dialogues, a track 2 U.S.–Russian conflict resolution initiative begun in 1960) 8-18-2010, “Why Russia Matters,” FOREIGN POLICY, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2010/08/18/why-russia-matters/3si)

A year and a half <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">after</span> Barack <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama hit the "reset" button with Russia, the reconciliation is still fragile, incomplete, and politically divisive.</span> Sure, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia is no easy ally for the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Authoritarian yet insecure</span>, economically mighty yet technologically backward, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the country has proven a challenge for U.S. presidents since the end of the Cold War.</span> Recent news hasn't helped: The arrest in July of a former deputy prime minister and leader of the Solidarity opposition movement, Boris Nemtsov, provoked some of the harshest criticism of Russia yet from the Obama administration. Then last Wednesday, Russia announced that it had moved anti-aircraft missiles into Abkhazia, the region that broke off from Georgia during the August 2008 war. The announcement was hardly welcome news for the United States, which has tried to defuse tensions there for the last 24 months. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Yet however challenging this partnership may be, Washington can't affordnot to work with Moscow.</span> Ronald Reagan popularized the phrase, "Trust, but verify" -- a good guiding principle for Cold War arms negotiators, and still apt for today. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Engagement is the only way forward.</span> Here are 10 reasons why: / 1. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia's nukes are still an existential threat.</span> / Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia has thousands of nuclear weapons</span> in stockpile <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and hundreds</span> still <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">on hair-trigger alert aimed at U.S. cities. This threat will not go away on its own; cutting down the arsenal will require direct, bilateral arms control talks between Russia and the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates. New START, the strategic nuclear weapons treaty now up for debate in the Senate, is the latest in a long line of bilateral arms control agreements between the countries dating back to the height of the Cold War. To this day, it remains the only mechanism granting U.S. inspectors access to secret Russian nuclear sites. The original START agreement was essential for reining in the runaway Cold War nuclear buildup, and New START promises to cut deployed strategic arsenals by a further 30 percent from a current limit of 2,200 to 1,550 on each side. Even more, President <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama and</span> his <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russian counterpart</span>, Dmitry <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Medvedev, have agreed to a long-term goal of eliminating nuclear weapons entirely. But they can only do that by working together.</span> / 2. Russia is a swing vote on the international stage. / As one of the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, Moscow holds veto power over any resolution that the body might seek to pass -- including recent efforts to levy tougher sanctions on Iran or, in 2009, against North Korea following that country's second nuclear test. Russian support for such resolutions can also help persuade China and others not to block them. The post-reset relationship between Moscow and Washington works like a force multiplier for U.S. diplomacy. Russia plays an equally crucial role in the G-8 and G-20 economic groups, helping to formulate a coordinated approach in response to economic threats. In 2008, for example, Russia supported a G-20 resolution promising to refrain from protectionism and avoid new barriers to investment or trade. / 3. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia</span> is big. / The country's <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">borders span across Europe, Central and East Asia, and the Arctic</span> -- <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">all regions where</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has important interests and where it cannot afford destructive competition. With</span> an <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ongoing counterinsurgency</span> campaign <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in Afghanistan, the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">strong interest in Central Asian stability and relies on Russia</span> not only <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">for direct assistance with logistics and info</span>rmation <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">sharing</span>, but <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to help manage threats like</span> the recent <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">political upheaval and sectarian violence in Kyrgyzstan.</span> In the former Soviet space, Moscow's historical ties to newly independent states are still fresh and powerful. Moscow is the linchpin to resolving "frozen conflicts" that prevent countries like Moldova, Georgia, and Azerbaijan from prospering economically and moving toward European Union membership. Recently, for example, Moscow signaled renewed interest in resolving frozen conflicts in Nagorno-Karabakh and Transnistria. And despite recent troop movements into Abkhazia, a negotiated settlement is still very possible, one that returns some territory to Georgia but preserves its autonomous status, along with that of its fellow breakaway republic, South Ossetia. / 4. Russia's environment matters. / As the catastrophic fires across Western Russia have dramatically illustrated, Russia is both a victim of global climate change and a steward of natural resources -- including many of the forests now badly burned -- needed to reverse the global warming trend. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">With more than one-tenth of the world's total landmass, vast freshwater and ocean resources, plus deposits of nearly every element</span> on the periodic table, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia is an indispensable partner in the responsible stewardship of the global environment. On climate change, there is work to be done, but progress is evident. Russia today is the world's fourth-largest carbon emitter, but as a signatory to</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Copenhagen</span> Accord, it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has pledged to reduce emissions to</span> 20 to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">25 percent below 1990 levels.</span> Another black spot is Russia's use of "flaring" -- a technique that burns natural gas into the open atmosphere during oil extraction, but Medvedev agreed to capture 95 percent of the gas currently released through flaring. Last year he also signed Russia's first law on energy efficiency, which takes such steps as requiring goods to be marked according to their energy efficiency and banning incandescent light bulbs after 2014. True, most of Russia's other commitments are short on deadlines and concrete deliverables. But like China's cleanup for the Beijing Olympics, Moscow could transform resolve into reality with surprising speed, given the right amount of international engagement. And in the meantime, Russia's natural climate-cleaning properties are vast; the Siberian provinces alone contain more clean oxygen-producing forests and reserves of freshwater than continental Europe. / 5. Russia is rich. / As the "R" in the famous BRIC grouping of emerging economies, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia is the 12th-largest market in world, with the third-largest foreign currency reserves. And the country's role in world markets is only growing. Russia is a big player in commodity trading, the country boasts a volatile but increasingly attractive stock exchange, and it is open to foreign investment</span> -- even in state-owned industries. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russian businesses are increasingly looking abroad to form strategic partnerships</span>, acquire assets, and sell their products. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">And as a country that felt the global financial crisis viscerally</span> -- economic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">growth fell</span> by almost <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">8 percent in</span> 20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">09</span> -- <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia has a strong interest in making sure there is no repeat.</span> Despite occasional retrenchments, such as the ban on grain exports after the summer fires, Russia is committed to becoming a free-trading World Trade Organization member, and wants more access to U.S. and European technology and management know-how to drive its modernization. Excessive bureaucracy and widespread corruption are the biggest challenges to Russia's further economic growth, but these are already top talking points in Medvedev's modernization drive, and engagement with more transparent Western countries such as the United States can only help. / 6. One word: energy. / The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">American way of life depends on stable and predictable commodity prices</span> -- <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">gasoline, natural gas, and coal in particular</span> -- <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and Russia plays a large role in the global production and pricing of these fossil fuels.</span> Russia alone possesses roughly one-quarter of the world's known gas reserves, and it is currently responsible for over a fifth of global exports. It is the second largest oil-producing state after Saudi Arabia and has the second-largest coal reserves after the United States. The even better news for Washington is that Russia is not a member of OPEC, the cartel of oil-producing countries. This gives the country far more freedom to focus on increasing exports rather than reducing them to keep prices down. When it comes to bringing supply to market, many will no doubt remember the so-called gas wars between Russia and Ukraine and Russia and Belarus that left Eastern Europe in the cold several times in recent years. Much of the trouble is attributable to the legacy of Soviet energy infrastructure in Russia's western neighbors, which put a choke-hold on Russia's gas pipelines. Moscow is currently working with the United States, China, and Western Europe to find a way around this problem, which will entail building new pipelines through the Baltic Sea, Black Sea and Siberia. / 7. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia is a staunch ally in the war on terror</span> (and other scourges). / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Even during the dark days after the</span> 20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">08 Russia-Georgia war, Moscow and Washington cooperated effectively on counterterror</span>ism, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">counternarcotics, infectious disease prevention and response, and other shared security priorities. Recently, the two have worked together under the</span> auspices of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the Bilateral Presidential Commission to coordinate relief strategies for catastrophes such as</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Haiti earthquake and</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">violence in Kyrgyzstan. Both Washington and Moscow recognize that swift, well-organized responses to such crises are key to preventing weaknesses from being exploited</span> -- for example <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by extremist groups who</span> are happy to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fill the vacuum of government authority. Russia is also a critical partner in U.S. law enforcement efforts to defeat organized crime and terrorism financing. The two countries are currently working to map smuggling routes in Central Asia. And Russia has shared info</span>rmation <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">with the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">on the</span> informal <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">financial networks used to fund Taliban and Afghan warlords.</span> / 8. The roads to Tehran and Pyongyang go through Moscow. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia maintains unique relationships with Iran and North Korea</span> -- <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">both top concerns on</span> Washington's <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nuclear nonproliferation</span> radar. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In the past</span>, the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kremlin has used</span> its <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">leverage to keep</span> the path <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">open</span> for <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">negotiations, sending senior diplomats to Tehran and offering carrots such as civilian nuclearassistance and weapons sales</span> (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">though it has deferred the sale of advanced</span> S-300 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ground-to-air missiles that could be used to blunt a U.S. or Israeli air strike</span><span class="SmalltextChar">)</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. Now more than ever, Washington needs allies with that kind of leverage to help punish violators and discourage cascading nuclear prolif</span>eration <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">worldwide.</span> Leading by example on nonproliferation is also a must; as the world's biggest nuclear powers, the United States and Russia are looked to as the standard-setters. If they fail to ratify their latest modest step forward on bilateral nuclear arms control, it will be difficult to push other countries to take similar counter-proliferation measures. / 9. Russia can be a peacemaker. / Moscow has the potential to play a role in the settlement of key regional conflicts -- or if it chooses, to obstruct progress. Russia is a member of the Middle East "Quartet," the six-party talks dealing with North Korean denuclearization, and each of the working groups addressing conflicts in the post-Soviet space, such as the OSCE Minsk group on Nagorno-Karabakh, and the 5+2 group on Transnistria. In such post-Soviet regions in particular, Russia has a unique capacity to contribute to peaceful resolution of territorial disputes by facilitating trade and economic engagement with and between former adversaries, and acting as a peacekeeper once a final settlement is reached. In the Middle East, Russia still controls a network of commercial and intelligence assets and has substantial influence with the Syrians, who should be pushed to play a more productive role in the Arab-Israeli peace process. / 10. Russians buy U.S. goods. / As the U.S. economy stops and starts its way out of recession, most everyone agrees that boosting exports is a key component in the recovery. And Russia is a big market. U.S. companies such as Boeing, International Paper, and John Deere have invested billions in Russian subsidiaries and joint ventures. In all, there are more than 1,000 U.S. companies doing business there today. They are in Russia not only to take advantage of the country's vast natural resources and highly skilled workers but also to meet the demand for American-branded goods. The Russian middle class wants consumer goods and the country's firms increasingly seek advanced U.S. equipment and machinery. Between 2004 and 2008, before the financial crisis hit, U.S.-Russia trade grew by more than 100 percent to over $36 billion annually, and although that figure dropped by a third in 2009, there is potential for an even better, more balanced trade relationship in the coming decade. / In short, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia is indispensible. As long as the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">participates in the global economy and has interests beyond its</span> own <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">borders, it will have no choice but to maintain relations with Russia.</span>And <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">good relations would be even better.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Exceptionalism K</span>== 


The aff’s militaristic approach to transportation policy reifies American exceptionalism

Kathleen <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Oswald</span>**</span>, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11</span>**</span> (under direction of Dr. Jeremy Packer, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Smarter, Better, Faster, Stronger: The Informationalized Infrastructural Ideal,”</span> found online, BZ)


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">While, in the U.S., critical infrastructure</span> (CI) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">was long thought to refer mainly to the safety of public works, developments in military and terror tactics at home have forced planners to consider infrastructure as a potential target much more broadly</span>. The changing definition of CI over the past 20 years reflects a change in focus from the safety of essential infrastructures that we are told are in disrepair and decay to securing those infrastructures from attack. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The impetus behind such efforts to “secure” rather than “make safe” are in many ways a response to a new strategy of warfare embraced by the U.S. Military that targets enemy societies rather than enemy combatants in order to achieve desired effects</span>. Steven Graham’s work on <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">infrastructure</span> and military urbanism considers infrastructure <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">through the lens of warfare</span>, including an examination of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">tactics targeting “dual-use” infrastructures</span>. To elaborate, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">dual-use infrastructures are seen first as permanent or semi-permanent military installations, designed for the efficient and rational movement of people and goods (soldiers and supplies), information (communication), and energy (rations and power); and</span> in the second, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as personal and commercial infrastructures for moving goods and people (commerce, commuting and leisure), information (communication, media), and essential services (water, gas, electric, sewage, etc</span>). More than simply a foundation for military action, these infrastructures are tied up with other infrastructures essential to life itself, and are therefore a particularly important site of analysis. Graham (2005) explains that urban <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">infrastructural warfare aims for “organized, systematic de-modernization not just of the military forces of those deemed to be enemies, but of their urban civil societies as</span> well” (p. 178).<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> “Systematic de-modernization” is accomplished through the generation of second-order effects including the contamination of drinking water and disruption of communication and transportation that lead to third-order effects including limited food supply, increased rate of disease, and the disruption of civilian communications.</span> Graham (2005) cites specifically the 1999 military operation in Kosovo (“systematic de-electrification”) and the Iraq wars in 1991 and 2004 (“the war on public health”) as cases where U.S<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. Military tactics of precision-based non-lethal destruction using weapons such as</span> electromagnetic pulses (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">EMPs) and carbon bombs</span> (designed to disable electronic equipment and switches) had severe negative effects on the civilian population. In these cases, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the destruction of dual-use infrastructures ultimately brought about second- and third-order effects such the failure and contamination of water supplies that lead to widespread disease: effects not considered attacks directly on civilian population, but instead adverse effects stemming from the strategic targeting of dual-use infrastructures</span>. Further, Graham notes, as <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">infrastructures are increasingly linked with communication systems, strategies to engage in and defend against computer network attack</span> (CNA), or “deliberately manipulating computer systems to disable an opponent’s civilian infrastructure” are being researched and developed in the U.S., and were even discussed as an option on the war on Iraq (2005, p. 186). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">These tactics</span>, he argues, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are part of a larger shift in focus that moves away from the destruction of infrastructure and instead toward concerted efforts to control it remotely, further distancing the actor from the effect and in many cases leaving the infrastructure largely intact. The manipulation of infrastructure</span>, Graham argues, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">plays an increasingly important role in geopolitical struggles and complicates the ability to discern where war begins and ends in space and in time</span>, much in the vein of Virilio’s suggestion that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">total war has come to describe moves to an increasingly militarized everyday life</span>. Another key issue arising from the prevalence of these strategies is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">an inherent “militarization of all the aspects of contemporary urban societies” such as a perceived state of perpetual danger that leads to increased securitization, surveillance and contro</span>l (Graham, 2005, p. 189). Graham (2005) argues that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">while efforts to make infrastructures more resilient against disruption are important to defense, “reorganizing cities and their infrastructures based on notions of nearabsolute security would quickly have such devastating consequences on the very interactions and flows that enable urban life to thrive in the first place that cities would soon become untenable</span>” (p. 190). Graham cites a disconnect between <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">studies in political violence and urban studies as part of the lack of knowledge about the vulnerability of cities and infrastructures, and that this area needs to be explored so that the impacts and threats that these strategies pose are neither under- or overestimated</span>. He argues that further obscuring the importance of this topic is the media focus on immediate casualties associated with war and a neglect of broader infrastructural impacts, and calls for “a sustained and interdisciplinary engagement with the multi-scaled geopolitics of everyday technics and urban infrastructure” (Graham, 2005, p. 190). While the reorganization of infrastructure in terms of absolute security makes the orbits of the contemporary city less navigable, without a certain level of circumscription, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the city (and nation) loses its ability to hold territory and effectively direct and redirect flows</span>. In this sense, we can imagine infrastructure as having an important function in holding territory—personal, commercial, and military—through the management of flows. When infrastructure is targeted, second- and third-order effects (such as loss of critical infrastructure in the civilian population including electricity and water and the subsequent lack of faith in leadership) deterritorialize space: in cutting the sinew that holds territories together, spaces are undone and become subject to new arrangements. As <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">infrastructure warfare moves to cyber mediation, manipulation rather than destruction of infrastructure plays an increasingly important role, and informationalized infrastructure will vastly expand the ability to “scan” the earth, which</span> Virilio argues <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is central in the ability to hold territory</span> (1975/1994).


National identity makes extinction structurally inevitable

Rogers <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Smith</span>**</span>, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span>**</span> (professor of political science @ Penn, PhD @ Harvard, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Stories of Peoplehood, the Politics and Morals of Political Membership,”</span> p. 166-169)


It is certainly important to oppose such evolutionary doctrines by all intellectually credible means. But many have already been widely discred­ited; and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">todayit may</span> well <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">prove</span> salutary, even <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">indispensable, to heighten awareness of human identity as shared membership in a species</span> engaged in an ages-long process of adapting to often dangerous and unforgiving natural and man-made environments.20 When we see ourselves in the light of general evolutionary patterns, we become aware that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is gen­uinely possible for a species such as ourselves to </span>suffer massive setbacks or even to<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> become extinct if we pursue certain dangerous courses of ac­tion</span>. That outcome does not seem to be in any human's interest. And when we reflect on the state of our species today, we see or should see at least five major challenges to our collective survival, much less our col­lective nourishing, that are in some respects truly unprecedented. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">These are all challenges of our own making</span>, however, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span> so they <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">can</span> all <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">be met through suitably cooperative human efforts. The first is</span> our ongoing vulnerability to the extraordinary <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">weapons of massdestruction</span> that we have been building during the last half century. The tense anticipations of imminent conflagration that characterized the Cold War at its worst are now behind us, but the nuclear arsenals that were so threatening are largely still with us, and indeed the governments and, perhaps, terrorist groups possessed of some nuclear weaponry have continued to proliferate. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The second</span> great threat <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is </span>some sort of<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">environmental disaster</span>, brought on by the by-products of our efforts to achieve ever-accelerating industrial and post-industrial production and distribution of an incredible range of good and services. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Whether it is global warming, the spread of toxic wastes, biospheric disruptions due to new agricultural techniques, or some combination of these</span> and other consequences of human interfer­ence with the air, water, climate, and plant and animal species that sustain us, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">any major environmental disaster can affect all of humanity</span>. Third, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as our economic and technological systems have become ever more interconnected, the danger that major economic or technological failures in one part of the world might trigger global catastrophes may well increase</span>. Such interdependencies can, to be sure, be a source of strength as well as weakness, as American and European responses to the East Asian and Mexican economic crises of the 1990s indicated. Still, if global capitalism were to collapse or a technological disaster comparable to the imagined Y2K doomsday scenario were to occur, the consequences today would be more far-reaching than they would have been for comparable developments in previous centuries. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Fourth</span>, as advances in food production, medical care, and other tech­nologies have contributed to higher infant survival rates and longer lives, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the world's population has been rapidly increasing, placing intensifying pressures on our physical and social environments</span> in a great variety of ways. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">These</span> demographic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">trends</span>, necessarily involving all of humanity, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">threaten to exacerbate all the preceding problems, generating political and military conflicts, spawning chronic and acute environmental damages, and straining the capacities of economic systems.</span> The final major challenge we face as a species is a more novel one, and it is one that may bring consciousness of our shared "species in­terests" even more to the fore. In the upcoming century, human be­ings will increasingly be able to affect their own genetic endowment, in ways that might potentially alter the very sort of organic species that we are. Here as with modern weapons, economic processes, and pop­ulation growth, we face risks that our efforts to improve our condition may go disastrously wrong, potentially endangering the entire human race. Yet the appeal of endowing our children with greater gifts is suffi­ciently powerful that organized efforts to create such genetic technologies capable of "redesigning humans" are already burgeoning, both among reputable academic researchers and less restrained, but well-endowed, fringe groups.21 To be sure, an <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">awareness of these as well as other potential dangers affecting all human beings is **not enough** by itself to foster moral outlooks that reject narrow and invidious particularistic conceptions of human identity. It is perfectly possible for leaders to feel that to save the species, policies that run roughshod over the claims of their rivals are not simply justified but morally demanded.</span> Indeed, like the writers I have exam­ined here, my own more egalitarian and cosmopolitan moral leanings probably stem originally from religious and Kantian philosophical influ­ences, not from any consciousness of the common "species interests" of human beings. But the ethically constitutive story which contends that we have such interests, and that we can see them as moral interests, seems quite realistic, which is of some advantage in any such account. And under the circumstances just sketched, it is likely that more and more people will become persuaded that today, those shared species in­terests face more profound challenges than they have in most of human history. If so, then <span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">stressing our </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">shared identityas members of an evolving species may serve as a highly credible **ethically constitutive story that** can challenge particularistic accounts and foster support for novel political arrangements. Many more people may come to feel that it is no longer safe to conduct their political lives absorbed in their traditional communi­ties, with disregard for outsiders</span>, without active concern about the issues that affect the whole species and without practical collaborative efforts to confront those issues. That <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">consciousness of shared interests has the potential to promote stronger and much more inclusive senses of trust</span>, as people come to realize that the dangers and challenges they face in com­mon matter more than the differences that will doubtless persist. I think this sort of awareness of a shared "species interests" also can support senses of personal and collective worth, though I acknowledge that this is not obviously the case. Many people find the spectacle of the human species struggling for survival amidst rival life forms and an unfeeling material world a bleak and dispiriting one. Many may still feel the need to combine acceptance of an evolutionary constitutive story with reli­gious or philosophical accounts that supply some stronger sense of moral purpose to human and cosmic existence. But if people are so inclined, then nothing I am advocating here stands in the way of such combinations. Many persons, moreover, may well find a sustaining sense of moral worth in a conception of themselves as con­tributors to a species that has developed unique capacities to deliberate and to act responsibly in regard to questions no other known species can yet conceive: how should we live? What relationships should we have, individually and collectively, to other people, other life forms, and the broader universe? In time, I hope that many more people may come to agree that humanity has shared responsibilities of stewardship for the animate and physical worlds around us as well as ourselves, ultimately seeking to promote the flourishing of all insofar as we are capable and the finitude of existence permits. But even short of such a grand sense of species vocation, the idea that we are part of humanity's endeavor to strive and thrive across ever-greater expanses of space and time may be one that can inspire a deep sense of worth in many if not most human beings. Hence it does not seem unrealistic to hope that we can encourage in­creased acceptance of a universalistic sense of human peoplehood that may help rein in popular impulses to get swept up in more parochial tales of their identities and interests. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In the years ahead, this ethical sen­sibility might foster acceptance of various sorts of transnational political arrangements to deal with problems like exploitative and wildly fluctuat­ing international financial and labor markets, destructive environmental and agricultural practices, population control, and the momentous issue of human genetic modifications. These</span> are, after all, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">problems that</span> appear to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">need to be dealt with on a near-global scale if they are to be dealt with satisfactorily</span>. Greater acceptance of such arrangements would necessar­ily entail increased willingness to view existing governments at all levels as at best only "semi-sovereign," authoritative over some issues and not others, in the manner that acceptance of multiple particularistic constitu­tive stories would also reinforce. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In the **resulting political climate**, it might become easier to construct</span> the sorts of systems of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">interwoven democratic international, regional, state and local governments</span> that theorists of "cos­mopolitan democracy," "liberal multicultural nationalism," and "differ­entiated democracy" like David Held, Will Kymlicka, Iris Young, William Connolly, and Jurgen Habermas all envision.


The alternative is to reject the nationalistic representations of the 1AC – this is a prerequisite

Richard <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wilson</span>**</span>, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">01</span>**</span> (urban and regional planning @ Cal State Poly, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Transportation 28”</span> p. 16-18)


<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Purpose of planning. </span>__T__<span class="Underline">he purpose of transportation planning continues to be to develop strategies for connecting people</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and goods with destinations. However, </span>transportation planning is not divorced from<span class="Underline"> larger issues such as the </span>development of human potential<span class="Underline">, social justice, environmental improvement</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> or aesthetic appreciation. Its purposes broaden from the primary task of designing and selecting programs to enhancing the deliberative capability of decision making bodies and the public, and promoting learning about transportation phenomenon. </span>Transportation planning<span class="Underline"> also </span>provides a way for the [global] public to reflect on<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> broader </span>social issues, such as the relationship<span class="Underline"> of travel choices </span>to the environment and social equity<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Transportation planning is a creative activity that adds meaning to people’s lives as well as helping them link origins and destinations. It is intended to increase the capacity for reasoned deliberation and democratic decisionmaking. Whereas </span><span class="Underline">the</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> larger </span><span class="Underline">project of instrumental rationality could be described as increasing rationality</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, social progress </span><span class="Underline">and individual freedom, the larger project of communicative rationality is to enhance the quality of community and political dialogue in support of democracy</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, </span><span class="Underline">creating a transportation planning process that fully addresses both means and ends and links transportation issues to broader social concerns</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The effects of this approach are greater attention to ends (goals), better integration of means and ends, new forms of participation and learning, and enhanced democratic capacity. Because of </span><span class="Underline">the educational function of planning, planning documents and presentations do more than document technical analysis</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – </span><span class="Underline">they </span>engage<span class="Underline"> the public </span>in thinking about fundamental questions, explore images, ideals and values, and open up the process to creative participation<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Public participation is seen as a part of an ongoing learning process, not an episodic event prior to the adoption of a new plan. Example: The parking planning effort has multiple purposes: 1) to design and implement parking policies; 2) to promote learning about the ridership, fiscal, environmental and social equity goals of the agency; and 3) to build a deliberative capacity among decision-makers and community stakeholders for addressing other strategic transit issues. The planning process helps decision-makers, stakeholders and the public learn about how transit agency goals are realized in specific policies and informs the broader goals of the transportation agency and society. For example, one board member may see free surface parking as the impediment to economically feasible transit-oriented development while another might see it as a basic right of a commuter. The planning process helps them explain their perspectives, search for common ground and agree to tradeoffs. Similarly, discussion about the distributional consequences of alternative parking charges may lead to discussion of broader station access strategies, or even a discourse that redefines the mission of the organization. The parking issue is a way of developing the strategic plan of the organization and can be a catalyst for broader public debate about transportation pricing, transportation equity and the environment. 3. Planning process. As shown in Figure 2, </span>communicative transportation planning<span class="Underline"> does not involve a linear progression from ends to means</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Instead, </span><span class="Underline">it</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> is an iterative process that </span>transforms the decision environment<span class="Underline"> and the participants themselves</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Participants simultaneously consider means and ends. Communicative transportation planning emphasizes listening, conveying, interpreting, mediating and bridge-building between stakeholders – encouraging them to ease their commitment to pre-existing positions and to share interests and goals. It is open to and influences the larger context of societal values, public opinion, institutions and stakeholders. Consequently, communicative planning itself may develop or modify the planning process. Finally, </span><span class="Underline">communicative transportation planning </span>encourages<span class="Underline"> a continuous </span>critique about<span class="Underline"> the </span>planning process and its effects<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span><span class="Underline">It draws attention to that process rather than using a cookbook-like set of procedural steps for planning</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.7 Accordingly, communicative rationality involves experimental approaches because developing the planning process is an explicit part of the planning activity. Planning processes are designed with attention to the time it takes for decision-makers and stakeholders to learn and adopt new positions. A communicative planning process has simultaneous research, forecasting, value exploration, and alternative testing activities, ensuring that each element informs the other. Modeling and research, for example, is an on-going process that responds to policy questions as they occur rather than a discrete step that produces a product for policy consideration. </span>


The role of the ballot is to investigate methodology before policy recommendations – rejecting nationalism creates an accurate research agenda that advances shared human interest

Ulrich <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Beck and</span>**</span> Natan <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Snzaider</span>**</span>, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">06</span>**</span> (*Professor of Sociology @ Munich, **Professor @ Tel Aviv Yaffo, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Unpacking cosmopolitanism for the social sciences: a research agenda,”</span> The British Journal of Sociology, 5.1, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.promusica.se/Library/Electronic%20texts/Beck_Sznaider2006.pdf]]</span>)**


**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Methodological nationalism takes the following premises for granted: it equates societies with nation-state</span> societies and sees states and their governments as the primary focus of social-scientific analysis. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It assumes that humanity is naturally divided into</span> a limited number of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nations</span>, which organize themselves internally as nation-states and externally set boundaries to distinguish themselves from other nation-states. And it goes further: this outer delimitation as well as the competition between nation-states, represent the most fundamental category of political organization. The premises of the social sciences assume the collapse of social boundaries with state boundaries, believing that social action occurs primarily within and only secondarily across, these divisions: [Like] stamp collecting . . . <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">social scientists collected distinctive national</span> social <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">forms</span>. Japanese industrial relations, German national character, the American constitution, the British class system – not to mention the more exotic institutions of tribal societies – were the currency of social research. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The core disciplines</span> of the social sciences, whose intellectual traditions are reference points for each other and for other fields, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">were therefore domesticated</span>– <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in the sense of being preoccupied </span>not with Western and world civilization as wholes but <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">with</span> the ‘domestic’ forms of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">particular national societies</span> (Shaw 2000: 68). The critique of methodological nationalism should not be confused with the thesis that the end of the nation-state has arrived. One does not criticize methodological individualism by proclaiming the end of the individual. Nation-states (as all the research shows – see also the different contributions in this volume) will continue to thrive or will be transformed into transnational states. What, then, is the main point of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the critique of methodological nationalism</span>? It <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">adopts</span> categories of practice as categories of analysis. The decisive point is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that national organization</span>as a structuring principle of societal and political action<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">can no longerserve as the orienting reference point for the social scientific observer. One cannot even understand</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">re-nationalization</span> or re-ethnification trend in Western or Eastern Europe <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">without a cosmopolitan perspective</span>. In this sense, the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">social sciences can only respond adequately</span> to the challenge of globalization <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">if they manage to overcome methodological nationalism and to</span> raise empirically and theoretically fundamental questions within specialized fields of research, and thereby <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">elaborate</span> the foundations of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a</span> newly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">formulated cosmopolitan social science</span>. As many authors – including the ones in this volume – criticize, in the growing discourse on cosmopolitanism there is a danger of fusing the ideal with the real. What cosmopolitanism is cannot ultimately be separated from what cosmopolitanism should be. But the same is true of nationalism. The small, but important, difference is that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in the case of nationalism the value judgment of the social scientists goes unnoticed because methodological nationalism includes a naturalized conception of nations as real communities</span>. In the case of the cosmopolitan ‘Wertbeziehung’ (Max Weber, value relation), by contrast, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">this silent commitment to a nation-state centred outlook of sociology appears problematic</span>. In order to unpack the argument in the two cases it is necessary to distinguish between the actor perspective and the observer perspective. From this it follows that a sharp distinction should be made between methodological and normative nationalism. The former is linked to the social-scientific observer perspective, whereas the latter refers to the negotiation perspectives of political actors. In a normative sense, nationalism means that every nation has the right to self-determination within the context of its cultural, political and even geographical boundaries and distinctiveness. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Methodological nationalism</span> assumes this normative claim as a socio-ontological given and simultaneously links it to the most important conflict and organization orientations of society and politics. These basic tenets <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">have become the main perceptual grid of the social sciences</span>. Indeed, this social-scientific stance is part of the nation-state's own self-understanding. A national view on society and politics, law, justice, memory and history governs the sociological imagination. To some extent, much of the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">social sciences has become a prisoner of the nationstate</span>. That this was not always the case is shown in Bryan Turner's paper in this issue (Turner 2006: 133–51). This does not mean, of course, that a cosmopolitan social science can and should ignore different national traditions of law, history, politics and memory. These traditions exist and become part of our cosmopolitan methodology. The comparative analyses of societies, international relations, political theory, and a significant part of history and law all essentially function on the basis of methodological nationalism. This is valid to the extent that the majority of positions in the contemporary debates in social and political science over globalization can be systematically interpreted as transdisciplinary reflexes linked to methodological nationalism. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">These premises</span> also <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">structure empirical research</span>, for example, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in the choice of statistical indicators, which are</span> almost <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">always exclusively national</span>. A refutation of methodological nationalism from a strictly empirical viewpoint is therefore difficult, indeed, almost impossible, because so many statistical categories and research procedures are based on it. It is therefore of historical importance for the future development of the social sciences that this methodological nationalism, as well as the related categories of perception and disciplinary organization, be theoretically, empirically, and organizationally re-assessed and reformed. What is at stake here? Whereas in the case of the nation-state centred perspective there is an historical correspondence between normative and methodological nationalism (and for this reason this correspondence has mainly remained latent), this does not hold for the relationship between normative and methodological cosmopolitanism. In fact, the opposite is true: even the re-nationalization or re-ethnification of minds, cultures and institutions has to be analysed within a cosmopolitan frame of reference. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cosmopolitan social science entails the</span> systematic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">breaking up of</span> the process through which the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">national perspective</span> of politics and society, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as well as the methodological nationalism of political science, sociology, history, and law</span>, confirm and strengthen each other in their definitions of reality. Thus it also tackles (what had previously been analytically excluded as a sort of conspiracy of silence of conflicting basic convictions) the various developmental versions of de-bounded politics and society, corresponding research questions and programmes, the strategic expansions of the national and international political fields, as well as basic transformations in the domains of state, politics, and society. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This paradigmatic de-construction</span> and re-construction <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">of the social sciences from a national to a cosmopolitan outlook can be understood and methodologically justified as a ‘positive problem shift’</span> (Lakatos 1970), a broadening of horizons for social science research making visible new realities encouraging new research programmes (Back and Lau 2005 and Beck, Banss and Lau 2003: 1–35). Against the background of cosmopolitan social science, it suddenly becomes obvious that it is neither possible to distinguish clearly between the national and the international, nor, correspondingly, to make a convincing contrast between homogeneous units. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">National spaces have become de-nationalized, so that the national is no longer national, just as the international is no longer international. New realities are arising</span>: a new mapping of space and time, new co-ordinates for the social and the political are emerging <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">which have to be theoretically and empirically researched and elaborated</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This entails a re-examination of the fundamental concepts of</span> ‘modern <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">society’</span>. Household, family, class, social inequality, democracy, power, state, commerce, public, community, justice, law, history, memory and politics must be released from the fetters of methodological nationalism, re-conceptualized, and empirically established within the framework of a new cosmopolitan social and political science. It would be hard to understate the scope of this task. But nevertheless <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it has to be taken up if the social sciences want to avoid becoming a </span>**museum of antiquated ideas**.

==Exceptionalism 2NC Cards== 

**Their demand for policy-only debate is a new link – it is an attempt to legitimize and endorse status quo exceptionalism**
Lee <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Jones</span>**</span>, September 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">09</span>**</span> (Lecturer in IR @ Queen Mary, PhD in IR, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“International Relations scholarship and the tyranny of ‘policy relevance’,”</span> Journal of Critical Globalization Studies Issue 1,http://criticalglobalisation.com/Issue%201/125_131_JCGS1_JONES_TYRANNYPOLICYRELEVANCE.pdf)
Having conceded where Nye has a point, let’s now consider <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the</span> ways in which he may simply be wrong. His <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">assumption</span> is that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the academic </span>should be, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">needs to be, policy-relevant</span>. As indicated above, this <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">can be a very pernicious assumption</span>. As an invitation to academics to contribute to discussions about the direction of society and policy, no one could reasonably object: those who wished to contribute could do so, while others could be left to investigate topics of perhaps dubious immediate ‘relevance’ that nonetheless enrich human understanding and thus contribute to the accumulation of knowledge and general social progress (and, quite probably, to those scholars’ research communities and their students). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As an imperative,</span> however, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it creates</span> all sorts of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">distortions that are injurious to academic freedom. It encourages academics to study certain things, in certain ways, with certain outcomes and certain ways of disseminating one’s findings. This ‘encouragement’ is</span> more or less <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">coercive</span>, backed as it is by the allure of large research grants which advance one’s institution and personal career, versus the threat of a fate as an entirely marginal scholar incapable of attracting research funding – a nowadays a standard criteria for academic employment and promotion. Furthermore, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">those funding ‘policy-relevant’ research already have predefined notions of what is ‘relevant’</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This means </span>both <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that academics</span> risk being drawn into policy-based evidence-making, rather than its much-vaunted opposite, and that academics <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will</span> tend to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">be selected by the policy world based on whether they will</span> reflect, endorse and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">legitimise the overallinterests and ideologies that underpin the prevailing order</span>. Consider the examples Nye gives as leading examples of policy-relevant scholars: Henry Kissinger and Zbigniew Brzezinski, both of whom served as National Security Advisers (under Nixon and Carter respectively), while Kissinger also went on to become Secretary of State (under Nixon and Ford). Kissinger, as is now widely known, is a war criminal who does not travel very much outside the USA for fear of being arrested à la General Pinochet (Hitchens, 2001). Brzezinski has not yet been subject to the same scrutiny and even popped up to advise Obama recently, but can hardly be regarded as a particularly progressive individual. Under his watch, after Vietnam overthrew the genocidal Khmer Rouge in 1978, Washington sent tens of millions of dollars to help them regroup and rearm on Thai soil as a proxy force against Hanoi (Peou, 2000, p. 143). Clearly, a rejection of US imperialism was not part of whatever Kissinger and Brzezinski added to the policy mix. In addition to them, Nye says that of the top twenty-five most influential scholars as identified by a recent survey, only three have served in policy circles (Jordan et al, 2009). This apparently referred to himself (ranked sixth), Samuel Huntington (eighth), and John Ikenberry (twenty-fourth). 2 Huntington, despite his reputation for iconoclasm, never strayed far from reflecting elite concerns and prejudices (Jones, 2009). Nye and Ikenberry, despite their more ‘liberal’ credentials, have built their careers around the project of institutionalising, preserving and extending American hegemony. This concern in Nye’s work spans from After Hegemony (1984), his book co-authored with Robert Keohane (rated first most influential), which explicitly sought to maintain US power through institutional means, through cheer-leading post-Cold War US hegemony in Bound to Lead (1990), to his exhortations for Washington to regain its battered post-Iraq standing in Soft Power: The Means to Succeed in International Politics (2004). Ikenberry, who was a State Department advisor in 2003-04, has a very similar trajectory. He only criticised the Bush administration’s ‘imperial ambition’ on the pragmatic grounds that empire was not attainable, not that it was undesirable, and he is currently engaged in a Nye-esque project proposing ways to bolster the US-led ‘liberal’ order These <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">scholars’ commitment to the continued</span> ‘benign’ <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">dominance of US values</span>, capital <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and power overrides any</span>superficial dissimilarities occasioned by their personal ‘conservative’ or ‘liberal’ <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">predilections</span>. It is this that qualifies them to act as advisers to the modern-day ‘prince’; <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">genuinely critical voices are unlikely to ever hear the call to serve</span>. The idea of, say, Noam Chomsky as Assistant Secretary of State is simply absurd. At stake here is the fundamental distinction between ‘problem-solving’ and ‘critical’ theory, which Robert Cox introduced in a famous article in 1981. Cox argued that theory, despite being presented as a neutral analytical tool, was ‘always for someone and for some purpose’. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Problem-solving theories</span> ultimately <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">endorse</span>d <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the prevailing system</span> by generating suggestions as to how the system could be run more smoothly<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. Critical theories</span>, by contrast, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">seek to explain why the system exists in the first place and what could be done to transform it.</span> What unifies Nye, Ikenberry Huntington, Brzezinski and Kissinger (along with the majority of IR scholars) is their problem-solving approach. Naturally, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">policy-makers want academics to be problemsolvers</span>, since policies seek precisely to – well, solve problems. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But this does not</span> necessarily <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">mean that this should be the function of the academy</span>. Indeed, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the tyranny of ‘policyrelevance’ achieves its most destructive form when it becomes so dominant that it imperils the space the academy is supposed to provide to allow scholars to think about the foundations of prevailing orders in a critical, even hostile, fashion</span>. Taking clear inspiration from Marx, Cox produced pathbreaking work showing how different social orders, corresponding to different modes of production, generated different world orders, and looked for contradictions within the existing orders to see how the world might be changing. 1 Marxist theories of world order are unlikely to be seen as very ‘policy relevant’ by capitalist elites (despite the fact that, where Marxist theory is good, it is not only ‘critical’ but also potentially ‘problem-solving’, a possibility that Cox overlooked). Does this mean that such inquiry should be replaced by government-funded policy wonkery? Absolutely not, especially when we consider the horrors that entails. At one recent conference, for instance, a Kings College London team which had won a gargantuan sum of money from the government to study civil contingency plans in the event of terrorist attacks presented their ‘research outputs’. They suggested a raft of measures to securitise everyday life, including developing clearly sign-posted escape routes from London to enable citizens to flee the capital. There are always plenty of academics who are willing to turn their hand to repressive, official agendas. There are some who produce fine problem-solving work who ought to disseminate their ideas much more widely, beyond the narrow confines of academia. There are far fewer who are genuinely critical. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The political economy of research funding combines with the tyranny of ‘policy relevance’ to entrench a hierarchy topped by tame academics</span>.
It’s impossible to make sense of a political reality absent an interrogation of representations
Cedric <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Jourde</span>**</span>, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">06</span>**</span> (Ph.D, political science @ University of Wisconsin-Madison, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Hegemony or Empire: The redefinition of US Power under George W. Bush,”</span> ed. David Grondin, p. 182-3)
Relations between states are<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, at least in part, </span>constructed upon representations<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>Representations are **interpretative prisms** through which decision-makers **make sense of a political reality**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, </span>through which they define and assign **a subjective value** to the other states and non-state actors of the international system, and through which they determine **what are significant** international political **issues**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.2 For instance, officials of a given state will represent other states as 'allies', 'rivals', or simply 'insignificant', thus assigning a subjective value to these states. Such subjective categorizations often derive from representations of these states' domestic politics, which can for instance be perceived as 'unstable*, 'prosperous', or 'ethnically divided'. </span>It must be clear that representations are **not objective** or truthful depictions of reality; rather they are subjective and political ways of seeing the world, making certain things 'seen' by and significant for an actor while making other things 'unseen' and 'insignificant'<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.3 In other words, </span>they are founded on each actor's<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and group of actors' </span>cognitive, cultural-social, and emotional standpoints<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>Being fundamentally political, representations are the object of tense struggles and tensions, as some actors or groups of actors can impose on others their own representations of the world<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, of what they consider to be appropriate political orders, or appropriate economic relations, while others may in turn accept, subvert or contest these representations. </span>Representations of a foreign political reality influence how decision-making actors will act upon that reality<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In other words, </span>as subjective and politically infused interpretations of reality, representations **constrain and enable** the policies that decision-makers will adopt vis-a-vis other states<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">; </span>they limit the courses of action that are **politically thinkable**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and imaginable</span>, making certain policies conceivable while relegating other policies to the realm of the unthinkable<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.4 Accordingly, </span>identifying how a state represents another state <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">or non-state actor </span><span class="Underline">**helps to understand how and why certain foreign policies have been adopted while other policies have been excluded**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. To take a now famous example, if a transnational organization is represented as a group of 'freedom fighters', such as the multi-national mujahideen in Afghanistan in the 1980s, then military cooperation is conceivable with that organization; if on the other hand the same organization is represented as a 'terrorist network', such as Al-Qaida, then military cooperation as a policy is simply not an option. In sum</span>. the way in which one sees, interprets and imagines the ‘other’ delineates the course of action one will adopt in order to deal with this 'other'.

You are hegemonic overkill – ensures endless warfare
Ira <span style="font-size: 16px;">Chernus</span>, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 20<span style="font-size: 16px;">06</span>, Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The end of the cold war spawned a tempting fantasy of imperial omnipotence on a global scale. The neocons want to turn that fantasy into reality. But reality will not conform to the fantasy; it won’t stand still or keep any semblance of permanent order. So the neocons’ efforts inevitably backfire</span>. Political scientist Benjamin Barber explains <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that a nation with unprecedented power has “unprecedented vulnerability: for it must repeatedly extend the compass of its power to preserve what it already has, and so is almost by definition always overextended.”</span> Gary Dorrien sees insecurity coming at the neoconservatives in another way, too: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“For the empire, every conflict is a local concern that threatens its control. However secure it maybe, it never feels secure enough. The [neocon] unipolarists had an advanced case of this anxiety. . . . Just below the surface of the customary claim to toughness lurked persistent anxiety. This anxiety was inherent in the problem of empire and, in the case of the neocons, heightened by ideological ardor.”39 If the U.S. must control every event everywhere, as neocons assume, every act of resistance looks like a threat to the very existence of the nation. There is no good way to distinguish between nations or forces that genuinely oppose U.S. interests and those that don’t. Indeed, change of any kind, in any nation, becomes a potential threat. Everyone begins to look like a threatening monster that might have to be destroyed</span>. It’s no surprise that a nation imagined as an implacable enemy often turns into a real enemy.<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">When the U.S. intervenes to prevent change, it is likely to provoke resistance. Faced with an aggressive U.S. stance, any nation might get tough in return. Of course, the U.S. can say that it is selflessly trying to serve the world. But why would other nations believe that? It is more likely that others will resist, making hegemony harder to achieve. To the neocons, though, resistance only proves that the enemy really is a threat that must be destroyed. So the likelihood of conflict grows, making everyone less secure</span>. Moreover, the neocons want to do it all in the public spotlight. In the past, any nation that set out to conquer others usually kept its plans largely secret. Indeed, the cold war neocons regularly blasted the Soviets for harboring a “secret plan” for world conquest. Now<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> here they are calling on the U.S. to blare out its own domineering intentions for all the world to</span> [end page 53] hear. That hardly seems well calculated to achieve the goal of hegemony. But it is calculated to foster the assertive, even swaggering, mood on the home front that the neocons long for. Journalist Ron Suskind has noted that neocons always offer “a statement of enveloping peril and no hypothesis for any real solution.” They have no hope of finding a real solution because they have no reason to look for one. Their story allows for success only as a fantasy. In reality, they expect to find nothing but an endless battle against an enemy that can never be defeated. At least two prominent neocons have said it quite bluntly. Kenneth Adelman: “We should not try to convince people that things are getting better.” Michael Ledeen: “The struggle against evil is going to go on forever.”40 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This vision of endless conflict is not a conclusion drawn from observing reality. It is both the premise and the goal of the neocons’ fantasy. </span>Ultimately, it seems, endless resistance is what they really want. Their call for a unipolar world ensures a permanent state of conflict, so that the U.S. can go on forever proving its military supremacy and promoting the “manly virtues” of militarism. They have to admit that the U.S., with its vastly incomparable power, already has unprecedented security against any foreign army. So they must sound the alarm about a shadowy new kind of enemy, one that can attack in novel, unexpected ways.<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> They must make distant changes appear as huge imminent threats to America, make the implausible seem plausible, and thus find new monsters to destroy.</span> The neocons’ story does not allow for a final triumph of order because it is not really about creating a politically calm, orderly world. It is about creating a society full of virtuous people who are willing and able to fight off the threatening forces of social chaos.<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> Having superior power is less important than proving superior power</span>. That always requires an enemy. Just as neocons need monsters abroad, they need a frightened society at home. Only insecurity can justify their shrill call for a stronger nation (and a higher military budget). The more dire their warnings of insecurity, the more they can demand greater military strength and moral resolve. Every foreign enemy is, above all, another occasion to prod the American people to overcome their anxiety, identify evil, fight resolutely against it, and stand strong in defense of their highest values. Hegemony will do no good unless there is challenge to be met, weakness to be conquered, evil to be overcome.<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> The American people must actively seek hegemony and make sacrifices for it, to show that they are striving to overcome their own weakness.</span> So the quest for strength still demands a public confession of weakness, just as the neocons had demanded two decades earlier when they warned of a Soviet nuclear attack through a “window of vulnerability.” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The quest for strength through the structures of national security still demands a public declaration of national insecurity. Otherwise, there is nothing to overcome. The more frightened the public, the more likely it is to believe and enact the neocon story. </span>



==Race K== 

The topic of transportation focuses on the "infrastructure investment" that lavishes billions and billions of dollars for the privileged White, while ignoring the minority.
Karyn <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rotker</span>, 20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">07</span> (Attorney of Law, Poverty & Race 16.5, " Transportation: Regional Equity & Environmental Justice", http://search.proquest.com/docview/210339531 :)
<span class="DebateUnderline">In</span> August, <span class="DebateUnderline">2007</span>, <span class="DebateUnderline">a bridge on an interstate highway came crashing down</span> during rush hour in Minneapolis. <span class="DebateUnderline">Commentators seized upon the disaster as a sign of the need for more government spending on infrastructure</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline">But conversations about "infrastructure" routinely focus on building</span>, <span class="DebateUnderline">maintaining and expanding highways</span>, <span class="DebateUnderline">treating public transit as an afterthought at best</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline">For decades, the federal government</span> (and many state governments) <span class="DebateUnderline">have lavished billions upon billions of dollars on highway construction</span>, <span class="DebateUnderline">while funding for mass transit lags far behind</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline">The neglect of transit is discriminatory</span>: The 2000 Census showed that nearly one in four African Americans, and large percentages of Latinos and Asians, live in households without vehicles available, compared to only 7% of non-Hispanic whites. <span class="DebateUnderline">Communities of color are far more likely than whites to depend on public transportation to get to work</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline">Governmental disregard of transit strands low-income persons and communities of color, often in inner cities though also in rural areas, while job growth, economic development and housing migrate to wealthier, whiter suburbs</span>. At the same time, federal mandates that require regional planning frequently limit the influence of central cities in transportation and regional development. The precise structures vary from community to community. In some cities, activists have challenged the disproportionate amount of money pumped into modes of transit used by better-off, whiter communities, while transit modes used by inner-city residents are starved. The most well-known example was the case in which Los Angeles bus riders challenged how much money was going to the rail system. In Milwaukee, a majority-minority city surrounded by a ring of overwhelmingly white suburbs, survival of the transit system is at issue. <span class="DebateUnderline">There are clear disparities in auto ownership and drivers licenses between the predominantly low-income and minority residents</span> of Milwaukee's central city <span class="DebateUnderline">and the predominantly white residents of suburban counties</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline">Census data confirm that</span> Milwaukee residents, <span class="DebateUnderline">especially those living in the central city</span>, <span class="DebateUnderline">remain far more likely to rely on public transportation</span> than do suburban residents. Yet while transit funding declines and the existing (inadequate) bus system is subjected to frequent service cuts and fare increases, the state (with the avid support of suburban legislators) wants to spend more than $6.25 billion on highway reconstruction and widening. Meanwhile, many of the negative effects-including high levels of ozone pollution, suburban sprawl that leaves inner-city neighborhoods behind, the refusal to provide affordable housing in the suburbs, and the lack of transit connections to jobs in developing areas-hurt city residents. Judicial rollbacks in the application of civil rights laws, especially Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, increase the importance of taking on these issues politically, not just in the courts. In Milwaukee, we are using Title VI and federal Orders on Environmental Justice to advocate for substantive change-such as more equity for transit projects and more affordable housing in the suburbs-in the plans that are being developed. We worked with community groups to organize a challenge to our federally-designated Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and force creation of an Environmental Justice Task Force. We are also exploring potential litigation under civil rights and environmental laws. Our goal is to change the way in which planning and highway construction occurs-in an effort to change some of the structures that keep our community segregated.

Ignorance is prescribed into the Racial Contract - normalizing white supremacy and creating racial spaces into a color-coded world that constitutes and justifies genocide.
Charles <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mills</span>, 19<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">97</span>, The Racial Contract, p. 73-78
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In the</span> first period, the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">period of de jure white supremacy, the Racial Contract was explicit</span>, the characteristic instantiations the expropriation contract, the slave contract, the colonial contract—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">making it clear that whites were the privileged race and the egalitarian social contract applied only to them. (Cognitively, then, this period had the great virtue of social transparency: white supremacy was openly proclaimed. One didn't have to look for a subtext, because it was there in the text itself.) In the second period, on the other hand, the Racial Contract has written itself out of formal existence.</span> The scope of the terms in the social contract has been formally extended to apply to everyone, so that "persons" is no longer coextensive with "whites." <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">What characterizes</span> this period (which is, of course, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the present</span>) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is tension between continuing de facto white privilege and</span> this <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">formal extension of rights.</span> The Racial Contract continues to manifest itself, of course, in unofficial local agreements of various kinds (restrictive covenants, employment discrimination contracts, political decisions about resource allocation, etc.). But even apart from these, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a crucial manifestation is simply the failure to ask certain questions, taking for granted as a status quo and baseline the existing color-coded configurations of wealth, poverty, property, and opportunities, the pretence that formal, juridical equality is sufficient to remedy inequities created on a foundation of several hundred years of racial privilege, and that challenging that foundation is a transgression of the terms of the social contract.</span> (Though actually—in a sense—it is, insofar as the Racial Contract is the real meaning of the social contract.) / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Globally, the Racial Contract effects a final paradoxical norming and racing of space, a writing out of the polity of certain spaces as conceptually and historically irrelevant to European and Euro-world development, so that these raced spaces are categorized as disjoined from the path of civilization (i.e., the European project).</span> Fredric <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Jameson writes: "Colonialism means that a significant structural segment of the economic system as a whole is now located elsewhere, beyond the metropolis, outside of the daily life and existential experience of the home country</span>… <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Such spatial disjunction has as its immediate consequence the inability to grasp the way the system functions as a whole."</span>71 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">By the social contract's decision to remain in the space of the European nation-state, the connection between the development of this space's industry, culture, civilization, and the material and cultural contributions of Afro-Asia and the Americas is denied, so it seems as if this space and its denizens are peculiarly rational and industrious, differentially endowed with qualities that have enabled them to dominate the world.</span> One then speaks of the "European miracle" in a way that conceives this once marginal region as sui generis, conceptually severing it from the web of spatial connections that made its development possible. <span class="Underline">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> space actually comes to have the character it does because of the pumping exploitative causality established between it and those //other// conceptually invisible spaces. But by remaining within the boundaries of the European space of the abstract contract, it is valorized as unique, inimitable, autonomous. Other parts of the world then disappear from the white contractarian history, subsumed under the general category of risible non-European space, the "Third World," where for reasons of local folly and geographical blight the inspiring model of the self-sufficient white social contract cannot be followed.</span> / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nationally, within these racial polities, the Racial Contract manifests itself in white resistance to anything more than</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">formal extension of the terms of the abstract social contract (and often to that also).</span> Whereas before it was denied that nonwhites were equal persons, it is now pretended that non-whites are equal abstract persons who can be fully included in the polity merely by extending the scope of the moral operator, without any fundamental change in the arrangements that have resulted from the previous system of explicit de jure racial privilege. Sometimes the new forms taken by the Racial Contract are transparently exploitative, for example, the "jim crow" contract, whose claim of "separate but equal" was patently ludicrous. But others—the job discrimination contract, the restrictive covenant—are harder to prove. Employment agencies use subterfuges of various kinds: "In 1990, for example, two former employees of one of New York City's largest employment agencies divulged that discrimination was routinely practiced against black applicants, though concealed behind a number of code words. Clients who did not want to hire blacks would indicate their preference for applicants who were 'All American.' For its part the agency would signal that an applicant was black by reversing the initials of the placement counselor."73 Similarly, a study of how "American apartheid" is maintained points out that whereas in the past realtors would have simply refused to sell to blacks, now blacks "are met by a realtor with a smiling face who, through a series of ruses, lies, and deceptions, makes it hard for them to learn about, inspect, rent, or purchase homes in white neighborhoods... Because the discrimination is latent, however, it is usually unobservable, even to the person experiencing it. One never knows for sure."74 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nonwhites then find that race is, paradoxically, both everywhere and nowhere, structuring their lives but not formally recognized in political/moral theory. But in a racially structured polity, the only people who can find it psychologically possible to deny the centrality of race are those who are racially privileged, for whom race is invisible precisely because the world is structured around them, whiteness as the ground against which the figures of other races</span>— <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">those who, unlike us, are raced</span>—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">appear. The fish does not see the water, and whites do not see the racial nature of a white polity because it is natural to them, the element in which they move.</span> As Toni Morrison points out, there are contexts in which claiming racelessness is itself a racial act." / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Contemporary debates</span> between nonwhites and whites <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">about the centrality or peripherality of race can thus be seen as attempts respectively to point out, and deny, the existence of the Racial Contract that underpins the social contract. The</span> frustrating <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">problem</span> nonwhites have always had, and continue to have, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">with mainstream political theory is not with abstraction itself</span> (after all, the "Racial Contract" is itself an abstraction) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">but with an idealizing abstraction that abstracts away from the crucial realities of the racial polity.</span>76 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The shift to the hypothetical, ideal contract encourages and facilitates this abstraction, since the eminently nonideal features of the real world are not part of the apparatus. There is then</span>, in a sense, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">no conceptual point-of-entry to start talking about the fundamental way in which</span> (as all nonwhites know) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">race structures one's life and affects one's life chances.</span> / The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">black law professor Patricia Williams complains about an ostensible neutrality that is really "racism in drag," a system of "racism as status quo" which is "deep, angry, eradicated from view" but continues to make people "avoid the phantom as they did the substance," "defer[ing] to the unseen shape of things."</span>77 The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">black philosophy professor Bill Lawson comments on</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">deficiencies of the conceptual apparatus of traditional liberalism, which has no room for the peculiar post-Emancipation status of blacks, simultaneously citizens and noncitizens.</span>78 The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">black philosopher of law Anita Allen remarks on the irony of standard American philosophy of law texts, which describe a universe in which "all humans are paradigm rightsholders" and see no need to point out that the actual U.S. record is somewhat different.</span>79 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The retreat of mainstream normative moral and political theory into an "ideal" theory that ignores race merely rescripts the Racial Contract as the-invisible writing between the lines. So</span> John <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rawls, an American working in the late twentieth century, writes a book on justice widely credited with reviving postwar political philosophy in which not a single reference to American slavery and its legacy can be found, and</span> Robert <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nozick creates a theory of justice in holdings predicated on legitimate acquisition and transfer without more than two or three sentences acknowledging the utter divergence of U.S. history from this ideal.</span>80 / The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">silence</span> of mainstream moral and political philosophy <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">on issues of race is a sign of the continuing power of the Contract over its signatories, an illusory color blindness that actually entrenches white privilege. A genuine transcendence of its terms would require, as a preliminary, the acknowledgment of its past and present existence and the social, political, economic, psychological, and moral implications it has had both for its contractors and its victims. By treating the present as a somehow neutral baseline, with its given configuration of wealth, property, social standing, and psychological willingness to sacrifice, the idealized social contract renders permanent the legacy of the Racial Contract. The ever-deepening abyss between the First</span> World <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Third World, where millions</span>—-<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">largely nonwhite</span>—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">die of starvation each year and many more hundreds of millions</span>—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">also largely nonwhite</span>— <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">live in wretched poverty, is seen as unfortunate</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">(calling, certainly, for the occasional charitable contribution)</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">but unrelated to the history of trans</span>continental <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and intra continental racial exploitation.</span></span>

White Supremacy is the unnamed political system, the //sine qua non// of contemporary politics that constructs the way political discussions and engagements are made to benefit the whites, our discussion is key to create antagonism and challenge white politics in order to rupture the political structure responsible for violence.
Charles <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mills</span>, 19<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">97</span>, The Racial Contract, p. 1-3

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">White supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it is today. You will not find this term in</span> introductory, or even advanced, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">texts in political theory.</span> A standard undergraduate philosophy course will start off with Plato and Aristotle, perhaps say something about Augustine, Aquinas, and Machiavelli, move on to Hobbes, Locke, Mill, and Marx, and then wind up with Rawls and Nozick. It will introduce you to notions of aristocracy, democracy, absolutism, liberalism, representative government, socialism, welfare capitalism, and libertarianism. But though it covers more than two thousand years of Western political thought and runs the ostensible gamut of political systems, there will be no mention of the basic political system that has shaped the world for the past several hundred years. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">And this omission is not accidental. Rather, it reflects the fact that standard textbooks</span> and courses <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">have for the most part been written and designed by whites, who take their racial privilege so much for granted that they do not even see it as political, as a form of domination.</span> Ironically, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the most important political system of recent global history</span>—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the system of domination by which white people have historically ruled over and, in certain important ways, continue to rule over nonwhite people</span>—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is not seen as a political system at all. It is just taken for granted; it is the background against which other systems, which we are to see as political, are highlighted.</span> This book is an attempt to redirect your vision, to make you see what, in a sense, has been there all along. / Philosophy bias remained remarkably untouched by the debates over multiculturalism, canon reform, and ethnic diversity racking the academy; both demographically and conceptually, it is one of the "whitest" of the humanities. Blacks, for example, constitute only about 1 percent of philosophers in North American universities—a hundred or so people out of more than ten thousand—and there are even fewer Latino, Asian American, and Native American philosophers.1 Surely this underrepresentation itself stands in need of an explanation, and in my opinion it can be traced in part to a conceptual array and a standard repertoire of concerns whose abstractness typically elides, rather than genuinely includes, the experience of racial minorities. Since (white) women have the demographic advantage of numbers, there are of course far more female philosophers in the profession than nonwhite philosophers (though still not proportionate to women's percentage of the population), and they have made far greater progress in developing alternative conceptualizations. Those African American philosophers who do work in moral and political theory tend cither to produce general work indistinguishable from that of their white peers or to focus on local issues (affirmative action, the black "underclass") or historical figures (W. E. B. Du Bois, Alain Locke) in a way that does not aggressively engage the broader debate. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">What is needed is a global theoretical framework for situating discussions of race and white racism, and thereby challenging the assumptions of white political philosophy, which would correspond to feminist theorists' articulation of the centrality of gender, patriarchy, and sexism to traditional moral and political theory. What is needed, in other words, is a recognition that racism</span> (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or</span>, as I will argue, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">global white supremacy</span>) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is itself a political system, a particular power structure of formal or informal rule, socioeconomic privilege, and norms for the differential distribution of material wealth and opportunities, benefits and burdens, rights and duties.</span> The notion of the Racial Contract is, 1 suggest, one possible way of making this connection with mainstream theory, since it uses the vocabulary and apparatus already developed for contractarianism to map this unacknowledged system. Contract talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Naval Power Bad Turn</span>== 


Unilateral US naval power is bad – causes Chinese naval nationalism in response to perceived containment strategies

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kaplan, ‘10</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The Geog­ra­phy of Chi­nese Power,” Foreign Affairs, NJ)</span>



GETTING SEA LEGS / Thanks to this favorable situation on land, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China is</span> now <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">free to</span> work at <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">build</span>ing <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a great </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Navy</span>. Whereas coastal city-states and island nations pursue sea power as a matter of course, doing so is a luxury for historically insular continental powers such as China. In China's case, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">this might be</span> a luxury that is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fairly easy to acquire since the country is as blessed by its seaboard</span> as by <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">its continental interior</span>.China dominates the East Asian coastline in the temperate and tropical zones of the Pacific, and its southern border is close enough to the Indian Ocean that it might one day be linked to it by roads and energy pipelines. In the twenty-first century, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China will project hard power</span> abroad primarily <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">through its </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Navy</span>. / That said, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it faces a far more hostile environment at sea</span> than it does on land. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Chinese </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Navy</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> sees</span> little but <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">trouble in</span> what it calls <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the "first island chain": the Korean Peninsula</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the Kuril Islands, Japan</span> (including the Ryukyu Islands), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Taiwan, the Philippines, Indonesia, and Australia</span>. All except for Australia are potential flashpoints. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China is</span> already <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">embroiled in various disputes</span> over parts of the energy-rich ocean beds of the East China Sea and the South China Sea: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">with Japan</span> over the Diaoyu/Senkaku Islands and with the Philippines and Vietnam over the Spratly Islands. Such disputes allow Beijing to stoke nationalism at home, but for Chinese naval strategists, this seascape is mostly grim. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This first island chain is</span>, in the words James Holmes and Toshi Yoshihara of the U.S. Naval War College, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a</span> kind of "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Great Wall in reverse": a well-organized line of U.S. allies that</span> serve as a sort of guard tower to monitor and possibly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">block China's access to the Pacific Ocean.</span> / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China's answer to feeling so boxed in has been aggressive</span> at times. Naval power is usually more benign than land power: navies cannot by themselves occupy vast areas and must do far more than fight -- namely, protect commerce. Thus, one might have expected China to be as benevolent as other maritime nations before it -- Venice, Great Britain, the United States -- and to concern itself primarily, as those powers did, with preserving a peaceful maritime system, including the free movement of trade. But <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China</span> is not so self-confident. Still an insecure sea power, it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">thinks about the ocean territorially</span>: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the very terms "first island chain"and "second island chain"</span> (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the second</span> island chain <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">includes</span> the U.S. territories of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Guam and the</span> Northern <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mariana Islands</span>) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">suggest that the Chinese see all these islands as archipelagic extensions of the Chinese landmass</span>. In thinking in such a zero-sum fashion about their country's adjoining seas, //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China's naval leaders</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> are displaying the aggressive philosophy</span> of the turn-of-the-twentieth-century U.S. naval strategist Alfred Thayer Mahan, who argued for sea control and the decisive battle. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But they do not yet have the blue-water force</span> to apply it, and this discrepancy between aspirations and means has led to some awkward incidents over the past few years. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In</span> October 20//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">06</span>//, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a Chinese sub</span>marine <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">stalked the USS Kitty Hawk and then surfaced within a torpedo's firing range of it</span>. In November 2007, the Chinese denied the USS Kitty Hawk carrier strike group entry into Victoria Harbor when it was seeking a respite from building seas and deteriorating weather. (The Kitty Hawk did make a visit to Hong Kong in 2010.) In March 2009, a handful of PLA <span style="font-size: 8px;">Navy</span> ships harassed the U.S. surveillance ship the USNS Impeccable while it was openly conducting operations outside China's 12-mile territorial limit in the South China Sea, blocking its way and pretending to ram it. These are the actions not of a great power but of a still immature one.


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">That drives modernization, kills relations and causes war – only a loss of naval power solves</span>

<span class="Cite">Ross, ‘09</span>

(Robert S, Professor of Political Science at Boston College, Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard University, “China’s Naval Nationalism,” International Security, Vol 34, Number 2, Fall 09, Project Muse, NJ)


Nearly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">all Chinese security analysts concur that China’s security is</span> increasingly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">dependent on</span> vulnerable <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">sea-lanes</span>. More moderate “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">naval pragmatists</span>” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">argue</span>, however, that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the cost for China</span> of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">pursuing blue-water</span> maritime <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">power is excessive</span>. They contend that the United States will be determined to maintain its maritime superiority, that China lacks the resources to compete in a great-power naval competition, and that an effort to build a blue-water, power-projection <span style="font-size: 8px;">Navy</span> will undermine Chinese security. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Therefore</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China should focus</span> its limited resources <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">on</span> its submarine-based <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">access-denial capability</span>,<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> while maintaining</span> great power <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cooperation to secure</span> its access to global <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">resources</span>. One senior academic described the aircraft carrier as a “black hole” for Chinese funds and argues that China could better use its resources to acquire additional submarines.<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f88|88]]</span> <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China’s</span> authoritative <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">military publications</span>frequently <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">remind</span> their <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">readers that land powers face</span> considerable <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">difficulty in</span> developing <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">maritime power</span> and that interrupting and securing sea-lanes, as well as occupying small coral islands (e.g., the disputed Spratly Islands), are very difficult operations. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">They often advocate that China focus on more realistic objectives</span>, including development of asymmetric maritime capabilities. Some military analysts tend to be dismissive of “amateurs” who advocate naval power.<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f89|89]]</span> / China’s naval pragmatists also stress the damage that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a carrier program</span> would inflict on Chinese diplomacy. They argue that whereas a carrier would have minimum benefit for Chinese security, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it would undermine China’s peaceful rise</span> strategy <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by accentuating the role of “hard power”</span> in Chinese diplomacy. [End Page 72] After nearly thirty years of successful management of the “rise of China,” they are concerned that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">construction of a power-projection </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Navy</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> would undermine</span>both <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U.S.-China relations</span> and China’s relationship with Southeast Asian countries. Foreign ministry officials tend to oppose construction of an aircraft carrier, sensitive to the impact on Chinese diplomacy. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But in the current nationalistic environment, they have minimal influence on defense policy</span>. In addition, they recognize that they cannot offset the pressure from Chinese society.<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f90|90]]</span> Chinese <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nationalists dismiss the</span> potential <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">costs of a naval buildup</span>. Rather than address the challenge of simultaneous development of land and maritime capabilities and of naval competition with the United States, naval nationalists assert that China should devote equal resources to both theaters. Some nationalists argue that because China faces challenges from both Russia and the United States and because it confronts many neighbors on both land and sea, it must simultaneously pursue land and naval capabilities and that failure to develop both land and sea power will constrain China’s great power role in world affairs.<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f91|91]]</span> One author argues that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China’s strategic orientation toward</span> both land and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">sea is a geopolitical advantage</span> and that the development of large-scale ground and naval forces serves Chinese comprehensive power and is the optimal deployment of Chinese forces.<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f92|92]]</span> Another author acknowledges that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the U.S.</span> network of global <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">naval bases</span> is a strategic advantage for the U.S. <span style="font-size: 8px;">Navy</span>, but this simply <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">requires that China build an aircraft carrier with greater displacement</span> than U.S. carriers.<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f93|93]]</span> <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China’s challenge</span> to the maritime status quo <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">would</span> likely <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">elicit a U.S. response that</span>not only <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">would</span> offset China’s buildup but <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">also</span> could <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">contribute to costly U.S.-China tension</span>. Nonetheless, following the onset of the global financial crisis and the U.S. recession in 2008, many <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Chinese nationalists believe</span> that the United States is a declining power and that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China has the opportunity to develop a powerful </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Navy</span>.<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f94|94]]</span> Moreover, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they argue that China</span> has “no choice but to build a <span style="font-size: 8px;">Navy</span> centered on the aircraft carrier”; it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cannot allow U.S. strategic advantages to inhibit Chinese naval planning</span>. One author states, “If [End Page 73] this logic prevails, if there came a time when the United States occupies a strategic location on the Chinese mainland, should China then be compelled not to develop an army?”<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f95|95]]</span> <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Chinese scholars acknowledge that the determination of the</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U</span>//nited //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>//tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to protect its maritime supremacy could lead it to inflict a “Copenhagen” on the PLA </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Navy</span>.<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f96|96]]</span> Nonetheless, China “should not be afraid of drawing fire against itself so that China’s national security is completely constrained by external conditions and it is powerless.” If the “hegemon” so “dreads Chinese naval power that it would launch a preventive attack, this simply proves . . . that China must definitely develop a powerful maritime force.”<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f97|97]]</span> Ultimately, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China’s naval buildup could lead to U.S.-China tension that could exceed</span> tension over <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Taiwan</span>, but <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China</span> “has to do what it has to do.” It <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cannot “seek to please the</span> //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U</span>//nited //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>//tates. . . . Why should China build weapons that the United States does not care about?” Rather, it should build the very weapons that the United States “cares most about.”<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f98|98]]</span>


China war causes extinction

<span class="Cite">Straits Times, 2k</span>

(6-25-2000, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan,” p L/N, NJ)


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Conflict</span> on such a scale <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">would embroil other countries</span> far <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span> near and -horror of horrors -<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">raise the possibility of a nuclear war</span>. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order</span>. With the US distracted, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russiamay seek to redefine Europe's political landscape</span>. The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">balance of power in the Middle East may be</span> similarly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">upset</span> by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">hostilities between India and Pakistan</span>, each armed <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a</span> new and<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">dangerous phase</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war</span>? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">According to General</span> Matthew <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ridgeway</span>, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in the Korean War, the US had</span> at the time <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">thought of using nuclear weapons</span> against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there is little hope of winning a war against China</span> 50 years later, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">short of using nuclear weapons</span>. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Beijing</span> also <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">seems prepared to go</span>for the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nuclear</span> option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said<span class="Underline">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">[if] that should that come to pass, we would see the </span>//</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">destruction of civilisation</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There would be no victors</span> in such a war. While the prospect of a nuclear Armaggedon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.



Reducing US naval presence allows for regional naval alliances

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kaplan, 10</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The Geog­ra­phy of Chi­nese Power,” Foreign Affairs, NJ)</span>



<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A Greater China may be emerging</span> politically, economically, or militarily in Central Asia, on the Indian Ocean, in Southeast Asia, and in the western Pacific. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But just beyond this</span>new realm <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will be a stream of U.S. warships,</span> many perhaps <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">headquartered in Oceania</span> and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">partnering with</span> naval forces from <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">India, Japan, and other democracies</span>. And in time, as China's confidence grows, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">its blue-water force could develop a</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">less territorial approach</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span> itself <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">be drawn into alarge regional naval alliance</span>. / In the meantime, it is worth noting that, as the political scientist Robert Ross pointed out in 1999, in military terms, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the relationship between the</span> //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U</span>//nited //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>//tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and China will be more stable</span> than was the one between the United States and the Soviet Union. This is because of the particular geography of East Asia. During the Cold War, U.S. maritime power alone was insufficient to contain the Soviet Union; a significant land force in Europe was also required. But no such land force will ever be required around the edge of Eurasia, because even as the United States' land presence around the borders of a Greater China diminishes, the U.S. <span style="font-size: 8px;">Navy</span> will continue to be stronger than the Chinese <span style="font-size: 8px;">Navy</span>. / Still, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the very fact of China's rising</span> economic and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">military power will exacerbate U.S.-Chinese tensions</span> in the years ahead. To paraphrase Mearsheimer, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U</span>//nited //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>//tates, the hegemon of the Western Hemisphere, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will try to prevent China from becoming the hegemon of</span> much of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the East</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">ern Hemisphere. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This could be the signal drama of the age.</span>


That solves all their offense – regional cooperation checks escalation and solves peacekeeping

Doug <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bandow</span>**</span>, Spring/Summer 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">10</span>**</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, frmr Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan</span>, “Promoting Long-Term Economic Growth: America and East Asia Working Together” International journal of Korean Studies, http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/doug-bandow-ijks-xiv.pdf


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The best means of obtaining</span>this <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">prosperity lies in maintaining an open trading system</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">encouraging bilateral investment flows</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and working together to resolve economic disputes</span>, whether over currency valuations or regulatory standards. Tough economic times may tempt national leaders to turn economics into political battlefields. However, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">history suggests that all countries lose when they sacrifice economic ties in an attempt to win short-term financial advantage</span>. Indeed, a policy of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">isolation helped turn the once great Chinese Empire which dominated Asia into a geopolitical weakling</span>, one <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">vulnerable to Western imperialism</span>. Unfortunately, Washington seems to be following in Imperial China’s path with the refusal of Congress to approve the U.S.-South Korea free trade agreement and the unwillingness or inability of President Barack Obama to make the case necessary to win congressional backing. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But Asia’s future depends on more than economics</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Equally important is the preservation of peace through creation of stronger political and security arrangements in the region</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Peace is necessary for Asia’s economic miracle to continue</span>: the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Korean</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Japanese</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Chinese</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and other peoples have direct experience with how violence</span>, both <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">internal and external</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">can inhibit national development</span>. Thankfully, Asia’s conflicts since World War II have been limited. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In the aftermath of World War II the U.S. sought to promote stability through a series of</span> essentially <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">unilateral alliances</span> with Australia, Japan, New Zealand, the Philippines, South Korea, and Taiwan (though nominally bilateral or multilateral, the defense guarantee ran only one way, from Washington). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Whatever the merits of this system at the time</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is now obsolescent</span>. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">First</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the geopolitical context has changed with the disappearance of the Cold War which led to hostility and conflict among the region’s most important powers</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Second</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">countries which were weak and poor after being ravaged by years of war now are strong</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">prosperous</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and confident</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The basis of security and stability should shift from unilateral military alliances to multilateral cooperative relationships</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Although policy disagreements and vigorous competition among the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Japan</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ROK</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and other states are inevitable</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">these countries have a powerful incentive to resolve their differences amicably while limiting military competition and pressure for an arms race</span>. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Getting both economic and security policies right is important</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">not just for Asia but for the rest of the world</span>. The dynamic core of world economic affairs long has been shifting to the Asia-Pacific. Japan remains an economic power even while stuck in the doldrums. South Korea continues to grow after recovering from the Asian financial crisis. Even more significant is China’s growing economic role. Beijing’s relative immunity from the worst of last year’s financial crisis merely reinforces Asia’s economic importance. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The region’s economic transformation has most obviously benefited people throughout Asia</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As growth continues</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">those elsewhere around the world also will benefit greatly</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Despite today’s short-term economic difficulties</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the future appears to be bright</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">if we do not repeat</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">mistakes of the past</span>. / The 21st Century may prove to be the Asian Century. But that is likely only if the 21st Century in Asia also proves to be a time of peace, liberty, prosperity, and stability. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Tensions in the region have dropped dramatically with the end of the Cold War</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">along with increased international understanding and economic interdependence</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">All of these trends are embodied in Asia’s growing role as part of the international community</span>. Still, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">neither peace nor prosperity can be taken for granted</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cooperation and goodwill will be necessary throughout Asia and across the Pacific</span>. We all are benefiting from today’s environment of peace and prosperity. We all must work together to preserve it.


Regional alliances are key to solve conflicts in Asia

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Vogel, ‘10</span>

<span class="SmalltextChar">(Ezra, He</span>nry Ford II Emeritus Professor of Social Sciences at Harvard University, “Regionalism in Asia: Why we should stick with existing structures,” East Asia Forum, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/03/30/regionalism-in-asia-why-we-should-stick-with-existing-structures/, NJ)


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A</span>n important <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">key to</span> successful <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">regional organisation is making</span> good <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">use of</span> what some of the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">individual countries</span> have to contribute. The strong points of some of the leading countries that can promote the region are thus detailed below. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Japan has been the pioneer in</span> bringing <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">modernisation</span> to Asia. Despite its relatively small size, Japan remains one of the three largest economies in the world, with one of the best-educated and healthiest populations. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Its tech</span>nology and quality of production <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">set global standards</span>, and its law-abiding citizenry facilitate one of the lowest crime rates in the world. As the only major country in the world that has chosen not to have nuclear weapons, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Japan has the</span> moral <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">authority to take a leading position</span> in the fight <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/02/rethinking-the-bom/|against nuclear prolif]]</span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/02/rethinking-the-bom/|eration]]</span>. Finally, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the global leader</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> in energy</span> technology <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and <span style="color: #000000;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/12/16/climate-change-and-japan%E2%80%99s-post-copenhagen-challenge/|environmental protection]]</span>, it can make a major contribution</span> in these areas. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">driven by</span> explosive economic <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">growth</span> and a massive population, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has begun to play a central role in</span> energising <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the</span> region’s <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">economy</span>. Its think tanks and universities have developed extraordinarily quickly, and China is now producing large numbers of young people with a deep understanding of major issues affecting the Asia-Pacific region. Whilst China was initially concerned about the speed of modernisation within Asia, it has come to realise the benefits inherent in regionalism, and has begun to take a role in strengthening regional and global organisations. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As China’s economy has grown, its leaders have</span> also <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">turned their focus onto</span> international efforts to solve environmental problems such as <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/17/what-china-really-delivered-at-copenhagen/|global warming]]</span>. The United States remains the leader in higher education and research, and acts as a centre for educating talented people from around the globe. Additionally, international institutions sometimes lack the capacity to respond to urgent crises. In this context, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U</span>//nited //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>//tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">remains</span> the country <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">with thegreatest capacityto resolve security and environmental emergencies</span>. The United States recognises the importance of the Asia-Pacific and can be expected to take an active role in the region. The Southeast Asian countries that formed ASEAN have set the model for the ‘soft regionalism’ that is the glue binding together nations on both sides of the Pacific in a cooperative framework, most notably via APEC. It has unique convening power for bringing together the big powers of the region in a neutral setting. As the largest country in South-East Asia, Indonesia inevitably plays a central role in ASEAN. South Korea and Australia both also have unique contributions to make. South Korea, along with Singapore, is the most cosmopolitan country in East Asia, and continues to send many students to countries throughout the world. Australia has played a special role, not only as the region’s key supplier of many raw materials, but also as the one sizeable Caucasian country that is in effect in Asia. No country outside South Korea has trained a higher percentage of its population in Japanese language and culture. No country outside Indonesia has done more to study Indonesia. Accordingly, Australia continues to play a <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/01/20/asias-new-strategic-partnerships/|key role]]</span> in maintaining security within the Asia-Pacific. The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">regional organisations</span> in existence are already flexible enough to make good use of the capacities of the respective countries. But India and Russia should also be absorbed in these organisations. Together, these countries, through the regional associations, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">can address</span> some of the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">critical issues facing the region</span>. I will just briefly mention two of the most difficult of these issues that require our attention: historical disputes, and military balance of power issues. At the moment, issues as to Japanese interpretations of history are <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/01/05/a-new-start-for-japan-china-relations/|relatively submerged]]</span>, as South Korea and China are making an effort to set aside this issue. This does not mean that the issue has been resolved. On the Japanese side, efforts must be made to engage in a thorough study of the tragedies caused by the occupation of Taiwan and Korea, and of the invasion of mainland China in World War II. Korea and China must also make an effort to communicate to their populations the fundamental changes that have occurred after World War II, as Japan has sought to maintain peace and avoid militarism. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The security balance</span> in Asia is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the single biggest issue confronting regionalism</span> in the Asia-Pacific. In the past several decades, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">stability</span> in Asia <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has rested upon two pillars; the overwhelming military power of the </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U</span>//nited //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>//tates and the cooperation of other countries, most prominently South Korea and Japan. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Now, the Chinese military is <span style="color: #000000;">[[@http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/08/13/the-geostrategic-implications-of-chinas-growth/|growing]]</span></span> in strength, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and it is no secret that the US has an imbalanced budget</span> that will constrain military expenses in decades ahead. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">If we are to maintain peace and stability in</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Asia</span> Pacific, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we must have a solid understanding between the</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U</span>//nited //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>//tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and China</span>. It is in the interests of all countries in the region to deal with these issues, and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">regional organisations can make an important contribution.</span>



And, those conflicts go nuclear

<span class="Cite">Landay, 2k</span>

(Jonathon S, national security and intelligence correspondent, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, Knight Ridder)


Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea, or India and Pakistan are spoiling to fight. But <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">even a </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">minor miscalculation</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> by any of them could destabilize Asia</span>, jolt the global economy <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and even start a nuclear war</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">India, Pakistanand China all have nuclear weapons, and North Korea</span> may have a few, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">too</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Asia lacks</span> the kinds of //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">organizations</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">negotiations</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> and </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">diplomatic relationships</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> that helped keep an uneasy peace for five decades in Cold War Europe. "Nowhere else on Earth are the stakes as high and relationships so fragile,</span>" said Bates Gill, director of northeast Asian policy studies at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank. "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">We see the convergence of great power interest overlaid with lingering confrontations with no institutionalized security mechanism in place. There are elements for potential disaster."</span>


No risk of Middle East arms racing.

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline">**Cook, ‘12**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Steven A. Hasib J. Sabbagh Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, "Don't Fear a Nuclear Arms Race in the Middle East," Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/04/02/don_t_fear_a_nuclear_arms_race?page=full) </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Multiple nuclear powers on a hair trigger in the Middle East -- the most volatile region on earth, and one that is undergoing massive political change -- is a nightmare scenario for U.S. and other security planners, who have never before confronted a challenge of such magnitude. But thankfully, </span><span class="Underline">all the dire warnings about uncontrolled proliferation are -- if not exactly science fiction -- further from reality</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> than Shavit and Obama indicate. There are very good reasons for the international community to meet the challenge that Iran represents, but Middle Eastern nuclear dominoes are not one of them. Theorists of international politics, when pondering the decision-making process of states confronted by nuclear-armed neighbors, have long raised the fears of asymmetric power relations and potential for nuclear blackmail to explain why these states would be forced to proliferate themselves. This logic was undoubtedly at work when Pakistan embarked on a nuclear program in 1972 to match India's nuclear development program. Yet for all its tribulations, the present-day Middle East is not the tinderbox that South Asia was in the middle of the 20th century. Pakistan's perception of the threat posed by India -- a state with which it has fought four wars since 1947 -- is far more acute than how either Egypt or Turkey perceive the Iranian challenge. And while Iran is closer to home for the Saudis, the security situation in the Persian Gulf is not as severe as the one along the 1,800-mile Indo-Pakistani border. </span><span class="Underline">Most important to understanding why </span>the Middle East<span class="Underline"> will not be a zone of unrestrained </span>proliferation is the significant difference between desiring nukes and the actual capacity to acquire them<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span><span class="Underline">Of all three states that Shavit mentioned, </span>the one on<span class="Underline"> virtually </span>everyone's list for possible nuclear proliferation<span class="Underline"> in response to Iran </span>is Turkey. But the Turkish Republic is already under a nuclear umbrella<span class="Underline">:</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Ankara safeguards roughly 90 of the United States' finest B61 gravity bombs at Incirlik airbase, near the city of Adana. These weapons are there because Turkey is a NATO member, and Washington's extended deterrence can be expected to at least partially mitigate Turkey's incentives for proliferation.</span></span>


Iran prolif’s inevitable but Israeli strikes won’t happen – and, Obama solves escalation

<span class="Cite">Tobin, ‘12</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Jonathan, Jonathan S. Tobin is Senior Online Editor of Commentary magazine with responsibility for managing the editorial content of the website as well as serving as chief politics blogger. From January 2009 to April 2011, he was executive editor of the magazine, “Iran, Obama and Bibi’s October Surprise” Commentary, 5/6/12, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.commentarymagazine.com/2012/05/06/benefits-of-bibi-october-surprise-scenario-israel-elections-netanyahu-obama-iran-nuclear/HT|http://www.commentarymagazine.com/2012/05/06/benefits-of-bibi-october-surprise-scenario-israel-elections-netanyahu-obama-iran-nuclear//HT]]</span>)</span>


But <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Netanyahu and Barak are also</span> keenly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">aware of the danger of pushing too far. That’s why it is equally unimaginable they [Israel] would order a strike on Iran while the West was </span>actively <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">conducting nuclear negotiations</span>. Though no one should think they would not use force as a last resort, they have throughout this crisis made it clear <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they understood it is far better for the West — whose interests are involved in this matter as much as that of Israel — to deal with the Iranian nuclear threat. </span> However, once the talks started last month, it seemed as if Israel had lost its leverage. The Iranians are past masters of playing diplomatic hide and seek with credulous Western negotiators. This round of talks started off no different than previous futile attempts to make the ayatollahs see reason. With European Union foreign policy chief Catherin Ashton in charge of the negotiations, there seemed little chance the West would push the Iranians hard<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. With both sides more intent on preventing an Israeli attack than on actually coming up with a deal that would shut down Iran’s nuclear program, it seemed likely that they would be dragged out until</span> the end of the year when <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a re-elected</span> President <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama might have the “flexibility” to take a less harsh view of the issue than when the votes of the pro-Israel community were up for grabs. </span>But <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">if Obama believes there is a window for an Israeli attack</span> in the fall prior to November, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that might scare him into forcing Ashton and the negotiators to get tough. Though there is no reason to believe any amount of Western pressure, sanctions or threats will persuade Iran to give up its ambition of a nuclear weapon</span>, Netanyahu’s election schedule might be enough to get the West to follow through on its oil embargo and to refuse to allow the Islamist regime to play them for the suckers in the P5+1 talks. Rather than the September 4 election making a unilateral Israeli strike more likely, it just might be the thing that could stiffen the spines of Obama and his European partners during the next six months.

==Navy Bad Turn 2NC Cards== 

And, Crisis rationale ensures nuclear escalation
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wilson, 6</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">(Ward, former Fellow at the Robert Kennedy Memorial Foundation, “Rationale for a study of City Annihilations,”</span> http://wardhayeswilson.squarespace.com/city_annihilation/<span style="color: #000000;">, NJ [GENDERED LANGUAGE IS BAD AND WE WON’T DEFEND IT])</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">The rationality/risk argument is more likely to be effective in the case of two nuclear powers confronting one another. But even here there are problems. By their</span> nature<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">crises tend to distort and limit rational thinking</span><span style="color: #000000;">. I would feel much greater confidence in the strength of theories of rational choice if they could be shown to work on people who are under great stress. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Conclusions</span><span style="color: #000000;"> drawn </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">from the “prisoner's dilemma</span><span style="color: #000000;">,” for example, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">would be</span><span style="color: #000000;"> more </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">persuasive if the example were not of two people making decisions each in his quiet cell, but of two people who were simultaneously being tortured</span><span style="color: #000000;">. Security </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">studies often assume</span><span style="color: #000000;"> a </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">calmness and</span><span style="color: #000000;"> an </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">unemotional setting that real crisis</span><span style="color: #000000;"> decision-making </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">do</span><span style="color: #000000;">es </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">not exhibit</span><span style="color: #000000;">. But the most serious objection to the effectiveness of the rationality argument is the larger argument that </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there is a destructive urge in human nature that</span><span style="color: #000000;"> matches and sometimes </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">overwhelms the reason</span>ing<span style="color: #000000;"> part </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">of our brains</span><span style="color: #000000;">. I would hesitate to put such an argument, given its speculative nature, were I not in the company of men whose judgment I trust. Here is Robert Kennedy in To Seek A Newer World, the book of policy positions published for his 1968 run for the presidency: Those who disparage the threat of nuclear weapons ignore all evidence of the darker side of man, and of the history of the West – our history. Many times the nations of the West have plunged into inexplicable cataclysm, mutual slaughter so terrible and so widespread that it amounted nearly to the suicide of a civilization. The religious wars of the sixteenth century, the Thirty Years' war in the seventeenth century, the terrible excesses that followed the French Revolution these have been equaled and grotesquely outmatched in the modern twentieth century. Twice within the memory of living men, the nations of Europe, the most advanced and cultured societies of the world, have torn themselves and each other apart for causes so slight, in relation to the cost of struggle, that it is impossible to regard them as other than excuses for the expression of some darker impulse. Barbara Tuchman reminds us that the people of Europe were relieved at the outbreak of World War I: “Better a horrible ending than a horror without end,” said people in Germany. “Is not peace an element of civil corruption,” asked the great writer Thomas Mann, and war “a purification, a liberation, an enormous hope?” Englishmen cheered the news of war's outbreak all day and night, and Rupert Brook wrote: Now God be thanked Who has matched us with His hour Honour has come back And we have come into our heritage Perhaps only in Germany was similar enthusiasm to greet renewed combat in 1939. But the damage of the second war was greater, especially to noncombatants. The camps and ovens, the murders and mutual inhumanities of the Eastern front, the unrestricted bombing of cities (with deliberate concentration on areas of workers' housing), the first use of atomic bombs – truly this was war virtually without rules or limits. Its most important lesson for us is perhaps that we have no real explanation for it</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. We can explain how war broke out. We can understand our own response to the Nazi threat. But we have no reason for the fantastic disproportion between the combatants' war aims and the things that were done, none perhaps but the wrath of war</span><span style="color: #000000;"> described by Achilles in Book XVIII of the Iliad, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that makes a man go mad for all his goodness of reason, </span>That<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> rage </span>that rises within and<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> swirls like smoke in the heart </span>and becomes in our madness a thing more sweet than the dripping of honey.<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The destruction of the</span><span style="color: #000000;"> two </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">World Wars was limited</span><span style="color: #000000;"> only </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by tech</span>nology<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. Now nuclear weapons have removed that limit. Who can say that they will not be used, that a rational balance of terror will restrain emotions we do not understand? Of course, </span>we have survived into the third decade of the Atomic Age. Despite many limited wars and crises before 1914, Europe had known substantial peace for a century – and at its end saw war as deliverance. Nuclear war may never come, but<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it would be the rashest folly and ignorance to think that it will not come because men, being reasonable beings, will realize the destruction it would cause</span><span style="color: #000000;">. This argument is made stronger by the startling story told by Robert McNamara in the recent movie “The Fog of War.” McNamara met Fidel Castro at a conference for participants in the Cuban Missile crisis. They had gathered to review and reflect on the world's most dangerous crisis. Castro told McNamara that during the crisis there had been more than 150 usable nuclear warheads in Cuba and that at the height of the crisis he (Castro) had recommended to Khrushchev that those weapons be used to attack the US. “Didn't you know that that would lead to the total destruction of Cuba?” McNamara asked. “Oh, yes,” Fidel replied. Sometimes it seems, even when the danger is readily apparent, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">decision-makers make choices based on criteria </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">other than</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> rational analysis designed to maximize rewards</span><span style="color: #000000;">.</span>

China faces the choice between joining the international system and attempting to violently overturn it – US must work to deepen the roots of the present international order to coopt China.

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ikenberry, 8</span>
(G. JOHN IKENBERRY, Jan/Feb 2008, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs, Princeton, “The Rise of China and the Future of the West,” Foreign Affairs 87.1, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20080101faessay87102/g-john-ikenberry/the-rise-of-china-and-the-future-of-the-west.html)

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Some</span> observers <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">believe</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the American era is coming to an end</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as the Western-oriented world order is replaced by one increasingly dominated by the East</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>The historian Niall<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Ferguson has written that the bloody twentieth century witnessed "the descent of the West" and "a reorientation of the world" toward the East. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Realists go on to note that as China gets more powerful and the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates' </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">position erodes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, two things are likely to happen: </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China will</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> try to </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">use its growing influence to reshape the rules and institutions of the international system to better serve its interests</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and other states in the system</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">especially the declining hegemon</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> start to </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">see China as a growing security threat</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The result of these developments</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they predict, will be tension</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">distrust</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and conflict</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the typical features of a power transition</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In this view</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the drama of </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China's rise will feature an increasingly powerful China and a declining U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">locked in an epic battle over the rules and leadership of the international system</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And as the world's largest country emerges not from within but outside the established post-World War II international order, it is a drama that will end with the grand ascendance of China and the onset of an Asian-centered world order. / </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">That course</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">however, is not inevitable</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The rise of China does not have to trigger a wrenching hegemonic transition</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The U.S.-Chinese power transition can be very different from those of the past because China faces an international order that is </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fundamentally different</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> from those that past rising states confronted</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> does not just face the United States; it </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">faces a Western-centered system that is open, integrated, and rule-based, with wide and deep political foundations</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The nuclear revolution</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">meanwhile</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has made war among great powers unlikely</span> -- <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">eliminating the major tool that rising powers have used to overturn international systems defended by declining hegemonic states</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Today's Western order</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in short</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is hard to overturn and easy to join</span>. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This unusually durable and expansive order is</span> itself <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the product of farsighted U.S. leadership</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">After World War II</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">did not simply establish itself as the leading world power</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It led</span> in <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the creation of universal institutions that</span> not only <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">invited global membership</span> but also <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">brought democracies and market societies closer together</span>. It built <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">an order that facilitated</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">participation and integration of both established great powers and newly independent states</span>. (It is often forgotten that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">this postwar order was designed</span> in large part <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to reintegrate the defeated Axis states and the beleaguered Allied states into a unified international system</span>.) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Today</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China can gain full access to and thrive within this system</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">And if it does</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China will rise</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">but the Western order</span> -- <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">if managed properly</span> -- <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will live on</span>. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As it faces an ascendant China</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">should remember that its leadership of the Western order allows it to shape the environment in which China will make critical strategic choices</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">If it wants to preserve this leadership</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Washington must work to strengthen the rules and institutions that underpin that order</span> -- <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">making it</span> even <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">easier to join and harder to overturn</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U.S. grand strategy should be built around the motto "The road to the East runs through the West." It must sink the roots of this order as deeply as possible</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">giving China greater incentives for integration than for opposition and increasing the chances that the system will survive even after U.S. relative power has declined</span>.

==Heg Bad Turn== 

Heg is unsustainable – emerging powers, wealth transfer, and nonstate actors
US National Intel Council Report, ‘08
(National Intelligence Council, U.S. National Intelligence Agency Mid-Term and Long-Term Thinking, __Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World__, p.vi)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The international system</span>—as constructed following the Second World War—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will bealmost unrecognizable by 2025owing to the rise of emerging powers,</span>a globalizing economy, an historic<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">transfer of</span> relative <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">wealth</span>and economic power <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">from West to East, and</span> the growing influence of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nonstate actors</span>. By 2025, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the international system will be a global multipolar one</span> with gaps in national power continuing to narrow between developed and developing countries. Concurrent with the shift in power among nation-states, the relative <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">power of various nonstate actors—including businesses, tribes, religious organizations, and criminal networks—is increasing.</span> The players are changing, but so too are the scope and breadth of transnational issues important for continued global prosperity. Aging populations in the developed world; growing energy, food, and water constraints; and worries about climate change will limit and diminish what will still be an historically unprecedented age of prosperity. Historically, emerging multipolar systems have been more unstable than bipolar or unipolar ones. Despite the recent financial volatility—which could end up accelerating many ongoing trends—we do not believe that we are headed toward a complete breakdown of the international system, as occurred in 1914-1918 when an earlier phase of globalization came to a halt. However, the next 20 years of transition to a new system are fraught with risks. Strategic rivalries are most likely to revolve around trade, investments, and technological innovation and acquisition, but we cannot rule out a 19th century-like scenario of arms races, territorial expansion, and military rivalries. This is a story with no clear outcome, as illustrated by a series of vignettes we use to map out divergent futures. Although the United States is likely to remain the single most powerful actor, the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U</span><span class="SmalltextChar">nited </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span><span class="SmalltextChar">tates’ </span>relative <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">strength—even in the military realm—will decline</span> and US leverage will become more constrained. At the same time, the extent to which other actors—both state and nonstate—will be willing or able to shoulder increased burdens is unclear. Policymakers and publics will have to cope with a growing demand for multilateral cooperation when the international system will be stressed by the incomplete transition from the old to a still-forming new order. Economic Growth Fueling Rise of Emerging Players In terms of size, speed, and directional flow, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the transfer of global wealth and economic power now under way—roughly from West to East—is without precedent in modern history. This shift derives from two sources. First, increases in</span> oil and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">commodity prices have generated windfall profits for the Gulf states and Russia. Second</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">lower costs combined with government policies have shifted the locus of manufacturing and</span>some <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">service</span> industries <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to Asia. Growth projections for</span> Brazil, Russia, India, and China <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">(the BRICs) indicate they will collectively match the original G-7’s share of global GDP </span>by 2040-2050. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China is poised to have more impact on the world over the next 20 years than any other country.</span> If current trends persist, by 2025 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China will have the world’s second largest economy and will be a leading military power. It also could be the largest importer of natural resources</span> and the biggest polluter<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. India</span> probably <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will continue to enjoy relatively rapid economic growth</span> and will strive for a multipolar world in which New Delhi is one of the poles. China and India must decide the extent to which they are willing and capable of playing increasing global roles and how each will relate to the other. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia has the potential to be richer, more powerful, and more self-assured</span> in 2025 if it invests in human capital, expands and diversifies its economy, and integrates with global markets. On the other hand, Russia could experience a significant decline if it fails to take these steps and oil and gas prices remain in the $50-70 per barrel range. No other countries are projected to rise to the level of China, India, or Russia, and none is likely to match their individual global clout. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">We expect</span><span class="SmalltextChar">, however, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to see the political and economic power of other countries—such as Indonesia, Iran, and Turkey—increase.</span> For the most part, China, India, and Russia are not following the Western liberal model for selfdevelopment but instead are using a different model, “state capitalism.” State capitalism is a loose term used to describe a system of economic management that gives a prominent role to the state. Other rising powers—South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore—also used state capitalism to develop their economies. However, the impact of Russia, and particularly China, following this path is potentially much greater owing to their size and approach to “democratization.” We remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for greater democratization, even though advances are likely to be slow and globalization is subjecting many recently democratized countries to increasing social and economic pressures with the potential to undermine liberal institutions.

Unipolar system creates recalcitrant power backlash which leads to proliferation and war
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Monteiro 12</span>- Professor of Political Science at Yale, PhD in Political Science from UChicago
(Nuno, “Unrest Assured: Why Unipolarity is Not Peaceful,” MIT Press Journals, International Security Vol. 36, No. 3, Pages 9-40)
__In an international system with more than one great power__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__recalcitrant mi-nor powers would__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in principle, </span>__be able to balance externally by finding a great power sponsor__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.70 </span>__In unipolarity, however, no such sponsors exist__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.71 </span>__Only major powers are available, but because their survival is already guaranteed, they are likely to accommodate the unipole__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And even if some do not, they are unlikely to meet a recalcitrant minor power’s security needs given that they possess only limited power-projection capabilities.72 </span>__As such,__ recalcitrant minor pow-ers must defend themselves,__which puts them in a position of extreme self-help. There are four characteristics common to states in this position: (1) anarchy,(2) uncertainty about other states’ intentions, (3) insufficient capabilities to de-ter a great power, and (4) no potential great power sponsor____with whom to forma balancing coalition__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The first two characteristics are common to all states in all types of polarity. The third is part of the rough-and-tumble of minor power sin any system. </span>__The fourth__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, however, </span>__is unique to recalcitrant minor powers in unipolarity. This dire situation places recalcitrant minor powers at risk for as long as they lack the capability to defend themselves. They depend on the goodwill of the unipole__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and must worry that the unipole will shift to a strategy of offensive dominance or disengagement. </span>__Recalcitrant minor powers will therefore attempt to bolster their capabilities____through internal balancing. To deter an eventual attack by the unipole and bolster their chances of sur-vival__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the event deterrence fails, </span>__recalcitrant minor powers will attempt to re-inforce their conventional defenses, develop the most effective asymmetric strategies possible__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__and,__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> most likely </span>__in the nuclear age, try to acquire the ulti-mate deterrent__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—</span>__survivable nuclear weapons.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">73 </span>__In so doing, they seek to become major powers__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

Extinction
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Asal and Beardsley 09</span> (Victor, Department of Political Science, State University of New York, Albany, and Kyle, Department of Political Science, Emory University, Winning with the Bomb, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/uploads/Beardsley-Asal_Winning_with_the_Bomb.pdf]])
Conclusion Why do states proliferate? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nuclear weapons</span> and the programs necessary to create them are expensive. They <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are dangerous. Other countries mayattack a state while it is trying to create a nuclear arsenal and there is always the risk of a catastrophic accident. They may help generate existential threats by encouraging first strike incentives </span>amongst a state's opponents. This paper has explored the incentives that make nuclear weapons attractive to a wide range of states despite their costly and dangerous nature. We have found that nuclear weapons provide more than prestige, they provide leverage. They are useful in coercive diplomacy, and this must be central to any explanation of why states acquire them. Since 9 August 1945 no state has used a nuclear weapon against another state, but we find evidence that the possession of nuclear weapons helps states to succeed in their confrontations with other states even when they do not “<span style="font-size: 16px;">use</span>” them. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Conflict with nuclearactors carries with it a potential danger that conflict with other states simply does not have</span>. Even though the probability of full escalation is presumably low, the evidence confirms that the immense damage from the possibility of such escalation is enough to make an opponent eager to offer concessions. Asymmetric crises allow nuclear states to use their leverage to good effect. When crises involve a severe threat – and nuclear use is not completely ruled out – the advantage that nuclear actors have is substantial. Nuclear weapons help states win concessions quickly in 25 salient conflicts. Consistent with the other papers in this issue and the editors’ introduction (Gartzke and Kroenig this issue), we report that nuclear weapons confer tangible benefits to the possessors. These benefits imply that there should be a general level of demand for nuclear weapons, which means that explanations for why so few states have actually proliferated should focus more on the supply side, as applied by Matthew Kroenig (this issue) and Matthew Fuhrmann (this issue). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The findings here importantly suggest an additional reason why “proliferation begets proliferation,”</span> in the words of George Shultz (Shultz 1984, 18). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">If both parties to a crisis have nuclear weapons, the advantage is effectively cancelled out. When states develop nuclear weapons, doing so may encourage their rivals to also proliferate for fear of being exploited by the shifting bargaining positions. And once the rivals proliferate, the initial proliferator no longer has much bargaining advantage</span>. On the one hand, this dynamic adds some restraint to initial proliferation within a rivalry relationship: states fear that their arsenal will encourage their rivals to pursue nuclear weapons, which will leave them no better off (Davis 1993; Cirincione 2007). On the other hand, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">once proliferation has occurred, all other states that are likely to experience coercive bargaining with the new nuclear state will also want nuclear weapons. The rate of proliferation has the potential to accelerate because the desire to posses the “equalizer” will increase as the number of nuclear powers</span> slowly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">rises.</span> Our theoretical framework and empirical findings are complementary to Gartzke and Jo (this issue), who posit and find that nuclear states enjoy greater influence in the international realm. An interesting dynamic emerges when comparing the results to Rauchhaus (this issue), who finds that nuclear weapons in asymmetric dyads tend to increase the propensity for escalation. We have argued that nuclear weapons improve the bargaining leverage of the 26 possessors and tested that proposition directly. It is important to note that the factors that shape conflict initiation and escalation are not necessarily the same factors that most shape the outcome of the conflict. Even so, one explanation for why a stronger bargaining position does not necessarily produce less escalation is that escalation is a function of decisions by both sides, and even though the opponent of a nuclear state is more willing to back down, the nuclear state should be more willing to raise its demands and push for a harder bargain in order to maximize the benefits from the nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons appear to need ever-greater shares of their bargains in order to be satisfied, which helps to explain both their proclivity to win and their proclivity toward aggressive coercive diplomacy. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">An important implication in light of these findings is thus that even though nuclear weapon states tend to fare better at the end of their crises, this does not necessarily mean that the weapons are a net benefit for peace and stability</span>.

==Heg Bad Turn 2NC Cards== 

Counterbalancing independently causes resistance to US lead
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ikenberry et al., ‘09</span> *G. John Ikenberry is the Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Michael Mastanduno is the associate pwrofessor of government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth is Assistant Professor of International Relations in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University [http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/world_politics/summary/v061/61.1.ikenberry.html, “Introduction: Unipolarity, State Behavior, and Systemic Consequences, PDF, January 2009]
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">It has long been an axiom of social science that resources (or</span> capabilities<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> as defined herein) </span>do not translate <span class="Underline">automatically </span>into <span class="Underline">power </span>(control over outcomes<span class="Underline"> or over the behavior of other actors</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">).28</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS','sans-serif';">�</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Yet </span><span class="Underline">most</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> observers </span><span class="Underline">regard</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> it as similarly axiomatic that </span><span class="Underline">there is some positive relationship between a state’s relative capability to help or harm others and its ability to get them to do what it wants</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Even if the relationship is complex, more capabilities relative to others ought to translate generally into more power and influence. By this commonsense logic, a unipole should be expected to have more influence than either of the two great powers in a bipolar system. Articles in this special issue argue that the </span><span class="Underline">shift from bipolarity to unipolarity may not be an unambiguous </span>benefit<span class="Underline"> for the unipole’s ability to wield influence</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. On the contrary, a </span><span class="Underline">unipolar state may face the paradoxical situation of being simultaneously more capable and more constrained</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Two distinct theoretical logics suggest that </span><span class="Underline">a </span>unipole might enjoy less power to shape<span class="Underline"> the </span>international system than a superpower in bipolarity.__First is__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the logic of </span>__balancing, alliance, and opposition, discussed in the contributions by__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Stephen </span>__Walt and Mastanduno__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The increased </span>__concentration of capabilities in__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__unipole may elicit increased opposition from other states—in the form of either traditional counterbalancing or subtler soft balancing. Even if such resistance falls short of offering a real counterweight, it may materially hamstring the unipole’s ability to exercise influence__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. As Walt argues, the structural shift to unipolarity removed one of the major motivations for the middle-ranked great powers to defer to the United States. Mastanduno offers a similar argument: the collapse of a unifying central threat signifies that in this post–cold war era the </span>__United States has less control over adjustment struggles with its principal economic partners, because it can no longer leverage their security dependence to dictate international economic outcomes. Globalization reinforces__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> this U.S. </span>__predicament by expanding__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>__number of relevant players in the world economy and__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> by </span>__offering__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> them </span>__alternatives to economic reliance on the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates. While under bipolarity the propensity of other middle powers to defer to the United States was structurally favored, under unipolarity the opposite may obtain. Even if observable balancing behavior reminiscent of bipolarity or multipolarity never occurs, a structurally induced</span> __tendency of the middle-ranked great powers to withhold cooperation may sap the unipole’s effective power.__
Weak states will create their own institutions to limit US influence internationally
<span class="Cite">Ikenberry et al., ‘09</span> *<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">G. John Ikenberry is the Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Michael Mastanduno is the associate professor of government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth is Assistant Professor of International Relations in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University [http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/world_politics/summary/v061/61.1.ikenberry.html, “Introduction: Unipolarity, State Behavior, and Systemic Consequences, PDF, January 2009]</span>
__Weaker states__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in a unipolar structure similarly </span>__have incentives to utilize institutions__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Two types of motivation are relevant. First</span>__, weaker states may engage a unipole by enlisting its participation in new__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> or modified institutional </span>__arrangements in order to constrain or tie it down.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Since </span>__a unipolar state may be powerful enough to follow its own rules__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, possibly to the detriment of weaker states, </span>__those states may appeal within an institutional context to the unipole’s concern for its reputation as a member of the international community or to its need for cooperating partners, in order to persuade it to engage in rule-based order even if it cannot simply determine the rules unilaterally__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The </span>__dispute__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> between the United States and some of its allies over U.S. participation </span>__in the International Criminal Court reflects the attempt by weaker states to tie the unipole down and the unipole’s effort in turn to remain a free agent in the event it cannot define the institutional rules__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Second, </span>__weaker states may create or strengthen international institutions that exclude the unipolar state__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. These </span>__institutions might__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> be designed or intended to </span>__foster a common identity (for example, the European Union, the East Asian Economic Caucus), build capacity to withstand influence attempts by the unipole (for example, the European common currency), or create the potential to act independently of the unipole or at cross-purposes with it__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (for example, Shanghai Cooperation Organization, European Rapid Reaction Force). In bipolarity, weaker states tend to participate in institutional arrangements defined and dominated by one or the other of the major players. The nonaligned movement during the cold war was distinctive precisely because it sought—though not necessarily with success—to institutionalize a path independent of either superpower. Under conditions of unipolarity, </span>__we can hypothesize that weaker states, lacking the capacity to balance the unipole, will turn to a variety of institutional initiatives intended to constrain the unipolar state or to enhance their own autonomy in the face of its power__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The use of international institutions by weaker states is highlighted in the articles by Walt and Finnemore. </span>



Offensive Revisionism

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Monteiro 11 </span>*Nuno P. Monteiro is Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University [[[http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/ISEC_a_00064]], “Unrest Assured: Why Unipolarity is not Peaceful”]


A unipole carrying out an <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">offensive-dominance strategy wants to revise the status quo in its favor by acquiring</span><span class="SmalltextChar"> more </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">territory, by</span><span class="SmalltextChar"> favorably changing the alignment of other states, or by </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">altering the distribution of power in its own benefit</span><span class="SmalltextChar">—or some combination of these. Territorial conquest, which is the most ambitious goal of an offensivedominance strategy, is a daunting task in an age of nationalism and is thus likely to be rare.89 Efforts to alter the international alignments of other states or the balance of power can be pursued through </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">soft power</span><span class="SmalltextChar">and persuasion, but this </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is unlikely to prove sufficient, and</span><span class="SmalltextChar"> the </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">unipole may decide to use force</span><span class="SmalltextChar">.90 </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">By putting recalcitrant minor powers in a position of extreme-self help, an offensive-dominance strategy triggers two pathways to conflict</span><span class="SmalltextChar">. In both cases, a </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">deterrence breakdown leads to a preventive war</span><span class="SmalltextChar">. Following the first pathway: the </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">unipole makes revisionist demands that recalcitrant minor powers are unlikely to accept peacefully</span><span class="SmalltextChar">, because </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">these pose a threat to their survival</span><span class="SmalltextChar">. Given its preponderance of power, the </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">unipole may decide to goto war</span><span class="SmalltextChar">. The second causal pathway follows a slightly more complex logic. Like its defensive version, a strategy of offensive dominance provides strong incentives for recalcitrant minor powers to balance internally. These attempts to bolster their relative power, however, are likely to lead to war with the unipole before the recalcitrant power is able to acquire additional capabilities. The reason for this outcome is that the unipole will oppose any attempt by minor powers to revise the status quo in a way that is detrimental to its interests. In addition, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">wars</span><span class="SmalltextChar"> pitting a recalcitrant minor power against a unipole implementing a strategy of offensive dominance have two effects common to defensive dominance. First, they </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">encourage other recalcitrant minor powers to redouble their balancing</span><span class="SmalltextChar">efforts. Second, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they may make room for wars among major and minor powers</span><span class="SmalltextChar">. Reacting to the September 11 terrorist attacks, the United States adopted a strategy of offensive dominance in the Middle East. Although this short period has produced only a slim empirical record that can be harnessed to support my </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">theory</span><span class="SmalltextChar">, the mechanisms I posit </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">can best be seen at work in the 2003 U.S.-led invasion of Iraq</span>.<span class="SmalltextChar"> The United States’ </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">goal was to revise Iraq’s </span><span class="SmalltextChar">international alignment and decrease its relative power by installing an accommodating regime in Baghdad and ending Saddam’s putative weapons of mass destruction (WMD) program.91 In the end, no WMD were found after the invasion.92 Still, Saddam had possessed a nuclear program, which he stopped only grudgingly when UNimposed sanctions in the aftermath of the 1991 Gulf War made it impossible to acquire the materials and technology needed for a nuclear deterrent.93 Indeed, the possibility of Iraq acquiring nuclear weapons, which Washington was convinced would soon become a reality, featured prominently in the George W. Bush administration’s argument for going to war.94 Although confronted with an imminent invasion</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, Saddam refused to back down</span><span class="SmalltextChar">. His rationale seems to have been based on his estimate that, ªrst, France or Russia would intercede on Iraq’s behalf, preventing war and, second, if that failed, Iraqi forces would be capable of increasing the military costs for the United States to the point at which American public opinion would force Washington to back down.95 None of this happened. China, France, and Russia—all major powers—did oppose UN authorization to use force against Iraq, but when the </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">United States displayed an unequivocal determination to invade</span><span class="SmalltextChar">anyway, no major power did much to stop it.96 Ultimately, U.S.-led coalition troops toppled Saddam’s regime in three weeks, and major military operations ended within a month of the invasion date. The </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">IraqWar also led other recalcitrant minor powers to accelerate their proliferation</span><span class="SmalltextChar">attempts. Having been identiªed by President Bush, alongside Iraq, as members of the “axis of evil,” Iran and </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">North Korea were</span><span class="SmalltextChar"> particularly </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">quick to respond</span><span class="SmalltextChar">.97 A mere two weeks after the fall of Baghdad, Pyongyang ofªcials informed their American counterparts that North Korea possessed nuclear weapons, making the country immune to any U.S. attempts to depose its regime. 98 </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Iran</span><span class="SmalltextChar">, too, has </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ramped up its nuclear program</span><span class="SmalltextChar"> since 2002 and is likely to continue pursuing a nuclear capability while trying to avoid preventive action by the United States.99 Unfortunately for the prospects of peace, it is also likely the United States will oppose this development and, if necessary, resort to the use of force.100 </span>

Unipolar structure eliminates caution in international politics – allows threats to be constructed and adventurism to happen
<span class="Cite">Ikenberry et al., ‘09</span> *<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">G. John Ikenberry is the Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Michael Mastanduno is the associate professor of government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth is Assistant Professor of International Relations in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University [http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/world_politics/summary/v061/61.1.ikenberry.html, “Introduction: Unipolarity, State Behavior, and Systemic Consequences, PDF, January 2009]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Unipolarity and domestic politics The impact of domestic politics on foreign policy is of long-standing interest in the study of politics. In his classic appraisal of the United States, Tocqueville concluded that the U.S. political system was “decidedly inferior” to other types in the conduct of foreign policy, with a tendency to “obey impulse rather than prudence” and to “abandon a mature design for the gratification of a momentary passion.”29</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">�</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> During the cold war Theodore Lowi, Stephen Krasner, and others reinforced the idea that American political institutions create disadvantages in external policy.30</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">�</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> More </span>__recent literature has reversed the presumption and argues that democracy offers distinctive advantages in foreign policy, including legitimacy, transparency, the ability to mobilize the public for war fighting efforts, and the potential to use competition among branches of government to gain advantage in diplomacy and negotiations__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">�</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">31 Political scientists have placed greater emphasis on the impact of regime type on foreign policy than on how changes in the relative international position of a country affect the role domestic politics play in its foreign policy.32</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">�</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Nonetheless, </span>__conventional wisdom during the cold war suggested that the bipolar structure had a doubledisciplining effect on__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the conduct of </span>__U.S. foreign policy__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The </span>__external threat disciplined American society, leading interest groups and the public generally to defer to central decision makers on__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the definition of </span>__national interest__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">and how best to achieve it. Domestic politics stopped at the “water’s edge” because the </span>__international stakes were so high__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The </span>__cold war constrained__ __American decision makers as well, forcing them to exercise caution__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in the international arena and to assure that public opinion or interest groups did not capture or derail foreign policy for parochial reasons. </span>__Under unipolarity____, the double disciplining effect is no longer operative, with neither publics nor central decision makers as constrained as in a bipolar context__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The consequent impact of domestic politics on foreign policy will depend in part on which party is more inclined to take the initiative: central decision makers or societal actors. One hypothesis is that </span>__under unipolarity__ __the line between domestic and foreign policy will blur and domestic politics will no longer stop at the__ __water’s edge. With less at stake in foreign policy, it is harder for leaders to discipline societal actors and easier for societal actors to capture aspects of the foreign policy agenda to suit their parochial needs.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The </span>__likely results are a less coherent foreign policy and a tendency for the state to underperform in the international arena__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, missing opportunities to exercise influence commensurate with its preponderant capabilities. A second hypothesis is that </span>__central decision makers will exploit the lack of constraint to manipulate a public—one that no longer has clear guiding principles in foreign policy—to respond to a wide array of possible threats and opportunities__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. As Jervis suggests, </span>__for the unipole threats may be nowhere—oreverywhere__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The article by Jack Snyder, Robert Shapiro, and Yaeli Bloch-Elkon takes up the impact of domestic politics under unipolarity. They find that </span>__the Bush administration has taken advantage of the structural discretion offered by unipolarity to conduct a far more active and risky foreign policy than would be possible under the constraints of bipolarity. Developments in American politics such as political polarization have not only encouraged this effort by leaders but have also enabled interest groups to tie their particular domestic concerns to the more activist foreign policy agenda, and they have encouraged opportunistic leaders to use foreign policy as a salient issue in domestic political debate.__

==<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Dedev 1NC / 2NC</span>== 


Collapse inevitable – diminishing returns from innovations – partitioned collapse solves extinction

Deborah <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mackenzie 08</span> – BBC Correspondant. Quotes Joe Tainter - an archaeologist at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, and author of the 1988 book The Collapse of Complex Societies, and Yaneer Bar-Yam, head of the New England Complex Systems Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts 4/5/2008 (“Are WE doomed?” Ebsco)


The very nature of civilisation may make its demise inevitable, says Debora MacKenzie DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation. Literature and film abound with tales of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">plague, famine and wars</span> which <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ravage the planet</span>, leaving a few survivors scratching out a primitive existence amid the ruins. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Every civilisation</span> in history <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has collapsed</span>, after all. Why should ours be any different? Doomsday scenarios typically feature a knockout blow: a massive asteroid, all-out nuclear war or a catastrophic pandemic. Yet there is another chilling possibility: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">what if the very nature of civilisation means that ours, like all the others, is destined to collapse sooner or later? A few researchers have been making such claims</span> for years. Disturbingly, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">recent insights from</span> fields such as <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">complexity theory suggest</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they are right</span>. It appears that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">once a society develops beyond a certain level of complexity it becomes increasingly fragile.</span>Eventually, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it reaches a point at which</span> even <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a</span> relatively <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">minor disturbance can bring everything crashing down.</span> Some say <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we have already reached this point</span>, and that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is time to</span> start <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">think</span>ing <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">about how we</span> might <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">manage collapse</span>. Others insist it is not yet too late, and that we can - we must - act now to keep disaster at bay. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">History is not on our side</span>. Think of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Sumeria</span>, of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ancient Egypt and</span> of the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Maya.</span> In his 2005 best-seller, Jared <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Diamond</span> of the University of California, Los Angeles, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">blamed environmental mismanagement for</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fall of the Maya</span>n civilisation and others, and warned that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we might</span> be <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">head</span>ing <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the same way unless we choose to stop destroying</span> our <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">environmental support systems. </span>Lester Brown of the Earth Policy Institute in Washington DC agrees. He has that governments must pay more attention to vital environmental resources. "It's not about saving the planet. It's about saving civilisation," he says. Others think our problems run deeper. From the moment our ancestors started to settle down and build cities, we have had to find solutions to the problems that success brings. "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">For the past 10,000 years, problem solving has produced increasing complexity in human societies,</span>" says Joseph Tainter, an archaeologist at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, and author of the 1988 book The Collapse of Complex Societies. If crops fail because rain is patchy, build irrigation canals. When they silt up, organise dredging crews. When the bigger crop yields lead to a bigger population, build more canals. When there are too many for ad hoc repairs, install a management bureaucracy, and tax people to pay for it. When they complain, invent tax inspectors and a system to record the sums paid. That much the Sumerians knew. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/ehost/detail?vid=17&hid=12&sid=053d6c1f-93b9-4e78-af50-0ce75a2d2b94%40sessionmgr4&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#toc|Diminishing returns]]</span> <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There is</span>, however, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a price to be paid</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Every extra layer of organisation imposes</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cost in</span> terms of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">energy</span>, the common currency of all human efforts, from building canals to educating scribes. And <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">increasing complexity</span>, Tainter realised<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, produces diminishing returns</span>. The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">extra food produced by</span> each <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">extra</span> hour of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">labour</span> - or joule of energy invested per farmed hectare - di<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">minishes as that investment mounts. We see the same thing today in a declining number of patents per dollar invested in research as that research investment mounts. This law of diminishing returns appears everywhere</span>, Tainter says. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">To keep growing, societies must keep solving problems</span> as they arise. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Yet each problem solved means more complexity. Success generates</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">larger population, more</span> kinds of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">specialists, more resources to manage, more information to juggle - and</span>, ultimately, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">less bang for</span> your <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">buck. </span>Eventually, says Tainter, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the point is reached when all the energy and resources available to a society are required just to maintain</span> its <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">existing level of complexity.</span> Then <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">when the climate changes</span> or barbarians invade, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">overstretched institutions break down and civil order collapses. What emerges is a less complex society</span>, which is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">organised on a smaller scale or</span> has been <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">taken over by another group. </span>Tainter sees <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">diminishing returns as</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">underlying reason for</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">collapse of all ancient civilisations, from</span> the early <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Chinese dynasties to</span> the Greek city state of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mycenae. These civilisations relied on</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">solar energy</span> that could be <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">harvested from food, fodder and wood, and from wind. When this had been stretched to its limit, things fell apart. </span>Western <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">industrial civilisation has become</span> bigger and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">more complex than any before</span> it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by exploiting new sources of energy</span>, notably <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">coal and oil</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">but these are limited</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There are increasing signs of diminishing returns</span>: the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">energy required</span> to get is mounting and although global is still increasing, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">constant innovation is needed to cope with environmental degradation</span> and evolving - the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">yield boosts per unit</span> of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">investment in innovation are shrinking</span>. "Since <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">problems are inevitable</span>," Tainter warns, "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">this process is</span> in part <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ineluctable.</span>" Is Tainter right? An analysis of complex systems has led Yaneer Bar-Yam, head of the New England Complex Systems Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to the same conclusion that Tainter reached from studying history. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Social organisations become</span> steadily <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">more complex as they are required to deal</span> both <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">with environmental problems and</span> with <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">challenges from neighbouring societies</span> that are also <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">becoming more complex</span>, Bar-Yam says. This eventually leads to a fundamental shift in the way the society is organised. "To run a hierarchy, managers cannot be less complex than the system they are managing," Bar-Yam says<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. As complexity increases, societies add</span> ever <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">more layers of management</span> but, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ultimately in a hierarchy, one individual has to try and get their head around the whole thing</span>, and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">this starts to become impossible.</span> At that point, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">hierarchies give way to networks in which decision-making is distributed. We are at this point.</span> This shift to decentralised networks has led to a widespread belief that modern society is more resilient than the old hierarchical systems. "I don't foresee a collapse in society because of increased complexity," says futurologist and industry consultant Ray Hammond."Our strength is in our highly distributed decision making." This, he says, makes modern western societies more resilient than those like the old Soviet Union, in which decision making was centralised. Things are not that simple, says Thomas Homer-Dixon, a political scientist at the University of Toronto, Canada, and author of the 2006 book The Upside of Down. "Initially, increasing connectedness and diversity helps: if one village has a crop failure, it can get food from another village that didn't." <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As connections increase,</span> though, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">networked systems become</span> increasingly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">tightly coupled.</span> This means the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">impacts of failures can propagate</span>: the more closely those two villages come to depend on each other, the more both will suffer if either has a problem."<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Complexity leads to higher vulnerability</span> in some ways," says Bar-Yam. "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This is not widely understood</span>." The reason is that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as networks become</span> ever <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">tighter, they</span> start to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">transmit shocks rather than absorb</span> them. "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The intricate networks that tightly connect us together</span> - and move people, materials, information, money and energy - <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">amplify and transmit any shock</span>," says Homer-Dixon. "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A financial crisis</span>, a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">terrorist attack or</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">disease outbreak has</span> almost <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">instant destabilising effects, from one side of the world to the other.</span>" For instance, in 2003 large areas of North America and Europe suffered when apparently insignificant nodes of their respective electricity grids failed. And this year China suffered a similar blackout after heavy snow hit power lines. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Tightly coupled networks</span> like these <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">create</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">potential for propagating failure across many critical industries</span>, says Charles Perrow of Yale University, a leading authority on industrial accidents and disasters. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/ehost/detail?vid=17&hid=12&sid=053d6c1f-93b9-4e78-af50-0ce75a2d2b94%40sessionmgr4&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#toc|Credit crunch]]</span> Perrow says interconnectedness in the global production system has now reached the point where "a breakdown anywhere increasingly means a breakdown everywhere". This is especially true of the world's financial systems, where the coupling is very tight. "Now wehave a debt crisis with the biggest player, the US. The consequences could be enormous." "A networked society behaves like a multicellular organism," says Bar-Yam, "random damage is like lopping a chunk off a sheep." Whether or not the sheep survives depends on which chunk is lost. And while we are pretty sure which chunks a sheep needs, it isn't clear - it may not even be predictable - which chunks of our densely networked civilisation are critical, until it's too late. "When we do the analysis, almost any part is critical if you lose enough of it," says Bar-Yam. "Now that we can ask questions of such systems in more sophisticated ways, we are discovering that they can be very vulnerable. That means civilisation is very vulnerable." So what can we do? "The key issue is really whether we respond successfully in the face of the new vulnerabilities we have," Bar-Yam says. That means making sure our "global sheep" does not get injured in the first place - something that may be hard to guarantee as the climate shifts and the world's fuel and mineral resources dwindle. Scientists in other fields are also warning that complex systems are prone to collapse. Similar ideas have emerged from the study of natural cycles in ecosystems, based on the work of ecologist Buzz Holling, now at the University of Florida, Gainesville. Some ecosystems become steadily more complex over time: as a patch of new forest grows and matures, specialist species may replace more generalist species, biomass builds up and the trees, beetles and bacteria form an increasingly rigid and ever more tightly coupled system. "It becomes an extremely efficient system for remaining constant in the face of the normal range of conditions," says Homer-Dixon. But unusual conditions - an insect outbreak, fire or drought - can trigger dramatic changes as the impact cascades through the system.The end result may be the collapse of the old ecosystem and its replacement by a newer, simpler one. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Globalisation is resulting in</span> the same <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">tight coupling and fine-tuning of</span> our <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">systems to a narrow range of conditions</span>, he says. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Redundancy is being systematically eliminated as companies maximise profits</span>. Some products are produced by only one factory worldwide. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Financially, it makes sense, as mass production maximises efficiency. Unfortunately, it also minimises resilience.</span> "We need to be more selective about increasing the connectivity and speed of our critical systems," says Homer-Dixon. "Sometimes the costs outweigh the benefits." Is there an alternative? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Could we heed</span> these <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">warnings and</span> start carefully <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">climb</span>ing <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">back down the complexity ladder</span>? Tainter knows of only one civilisation that managed to decline but not fall. "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">After the Byzantine empire lost most of its territory to the Arabs, they simplified their entire society. Cities</span> mostly <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">disappeared</span>, literacy and numeracy declined, their <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">economy became less monetised, and they switched from professional army to peasant militia.</span>" Pulling off the same trick will be harder for our more advanced society. Nevertheless, Homer-Dixon thinks <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we should be taking action now.</span> "First, we need to encourage distributed and decentralised production of vital goods like energy and food," he says. "Second, we need to remember that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">slack isn't always waste</span>. A manufacturing company with a large inventory may lose some money on warehousing, but it can keep running even if its suppliers are temporarily out of action." The electricity industry in the US has already started identifying hubs in the grid with no redundancy available and is putting some back in, Homer-Dixon points out. Governments could encourage other sectors to follow suit. The trouble is that in a world of fierce competition, private companies will always increase efficiency unless governments subsidise inefficiency in the public interest. Homer-Dixon doubts we can stave off collapse completely. He points to what he calls <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"tectonic" stresses</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will shove our rigid, tightly coupled system outside the range of conditions it is</span> becoming ever more <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">finely tuned to.</span> These include <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">population growth, the growing divide between the world's rich and poor, financial instability, weapons proliferation, disappearing forests and fisheries, and climate change. In imposing new complex solutions we will run into the problem of diminishing returns - just as we are running out of cheap and plentiful energy. </span>"This is the fundamental challenge humankind faces. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">We need to allow for</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">healthy breakdown</span> in natural function <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in our societies in a way that doesn't produce catastrophic collapse, but instead leads to healthy renewal</span>," Homer-Dixon says. This is what happens in forests, which are a patchy mix of old growth and newer areas created by disease or fire. If the ecosystem in one patch collapses, it is recolonised and renewed by younger forest elsewhere. //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">We must allow partial breakdown here and there, followed by renewal</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, he says, rather than trying so hard to avert breakdown by increasing complexity that any resulting crisis is actually worse. </span>Lester Brown thinks we are fast running out of time. "The world can no longer afford to waste a day. We need a Great Mobilisation, as we had in wartime," he says. "There has been tremendous progress in just the past few years. For the first time, I am starting to see how an alternative economy might emerge. But it's now a race between tipping points - which will come first, a switch to sustainable technology, or collapse?" Tainter is not convinced that even new technology will save civilisation in the long run. "I sometimes think of this as a 'faith-based' approach to the future," he says. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Even a society reinvigorated by cheap new energy sources will eventually face the problem of diminishing returns once more. Innovation itself might be subject to diminishing returns, or perhaps absolute limits. </span>Studies of the way by Luis Bettencourt of the Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico, support this idea. His team's work suggests that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">an ever-faster rate of innovation is required to keep cities growing and prevent stagnation or collapse</span>, and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in the long run this cannot be sustainable.</span> The stakes are high. Historically, collapse always led to a fall in population. "Today's population levels depend on fossil fuels and industrial agriculture," says Tainter. "Take those away and there would be a reduction in the Earth's population that is too gruesome to think about." If industrialised civilisation does fall, the urban masses - half the world's population - will be most vulnerable. Much of our hard-won knowledge could be lost, too. "The people with the least to lose are subsistence farmers," Bar-Yam observes, and for some who survive, conditions might actually improve. Perhaps the meek really will inherit the Earth.


Collapse stops wars – forced refocus

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bennett and Nordstrom</span>**</span>, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State, <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2k</span>**</span> [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, February, Ebsco]


In this analysis, we focus on using economic conditions to understand when rivalries are likely to escalate or end. Rivalries are an appropriate set of cases to use when examining substitutability both because leaders in rival states have clearly substitutable choices and because rivalries are a set of cases in which externalization is a particularly plausible policy option.7 In particular, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">when confronted with domestic problems, leaders in a rivalry have the clear alternatives of escalating the conflict</span> with the rival to divert attention <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or to</span> work to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">settle </span>the rivalry as a means of freeing up a substantial amount of resources that can be directed toward solving internal problems. In the case of the diversion option, rivals provide logical, believable actors for leaders to target; the presence of a clear rival may offer unstable elites a particularly inviting target for hostile statements or actual conflict as necessary. The public and relevant elites already consider the rival a threat or else the rivalry would not have continued for an extended period; the presence of disputed issues also provides a casus belli with the rival that is always present. Rivals also may provide a target where the possible costs and risks of externalization are relatively controlled. If the goal is diversion, leaders willwant to divert attention without provoking an actual (and expensive)war. Over the course of many confrontations, rival states may learn to anticipate response patterns, leading to safer disputes or at least to leaders believing that they can control the risks of conflict when they initiate a new confrontation. In sum, rivals provide good targets for domestically challenged political leaders. This leads to our first hypothesis, which is as follows: //Hypothesis 1//: Poor economic conditions lead to diversionary actions against the rival. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Conflict settlement is also a distinct route to dealing with internal problems that leaders in rivalries may pursue when faced with internal problems</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Military competition</span> between states <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">requires large amounts of resources, and rivals require even more attention</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Leaders may choose to negotiate a settlement that ends a rivalry to free up important resources that may be reallocated to the domestic economy</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In a “guns versus butter” world of economic trade-offs, when a state can no longer afford to pay the expenses associated with competition in a rivalry, it is quite rational for leaders to reduce costs by ending a rivalry.This gain (a peace dividend) could be achieved at any time by ending a rivalry</span>. However,<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">such a gain is likely to be most important and attractive to leaders when internal conditions are bad and the leader is seeking ways to alleviate active problems</span>.<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Support for policy change away from continued rivalry is more likely to develop when the economic situation sours and elites and masses are looking for ways to improve a worsening situation</span>. It is at these times that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the pressure to cut military investment will be greatest and that state leaders will be forced to recognize the difficulty of continuing to pay for a rivalry</span>. Among other things, this argument also encompasses the view that the cold war ended because the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics could no longer compete economically with the United States. //Hypothesis 2//: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Poor economic conditions increase the probability of rivalry termination.</span> Hypotheses 1 and 2 posit opposite behaviors in response to a single cause (internal economic problems). As such, they demand a research design that can account for substitutability between them.


Economic upswings cause wars – impact’s extinction

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Chase-</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Dunn</span>**</span> and Podobnik, assistant professor of sociology, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">99</span> (Christoper, D irector of the Institute for Research on World-Systems, , Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology at U of California, and Bruce, Anthropology at Lewis and Clark College, The Future of Global Conflict, ed. Bornschier and Chase-Dunn, pg 43)


While the onset of a period of hegemonic rivalry is in itself disturbing, the picture becomes even grimmer when the influence of long-term economic cycles is taken into account. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As an extensive body of research documents</span> (see especially Van Duijn, 1983), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the</span> 50 to 60 year business cycle known as the Kondratieff wave (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">K-wave</span>) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has been in</span> synchronous <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">operation on an international scale for at least</span> the last <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">two centuries</span>. Utilizing data gathering by Levy (1983) on war severity, Goldstein (1988) demonstrates that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there is a corresponding 50 to 60 year cycle in the number of battle deaths per year for the period 1495-1975</span>. Beyond merely showing that the K-wave and the war cycle are linked in a systematic fashion, Goldstein’s <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">research suggests that severe core wars are much more likely to occur</span> late <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in the upswing</span> phase <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">of the K-wave</span>. This finding is interpreted as showing that, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">while states always desire to go to war</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they can afford to do so only when economic growth is providing them with sufficient resources</span>. Modelski and Thompson (1996) present a more complex interpretation of the systemic relationship between economic and war cycles, but it closely resembles Goldstein’s hypothesis. In their analysis, a first economic upswing generates the economic resources required by an ascending core state to make a bid for hegemony; a second period of economic growth follows a period of global war and the establishment of a new period of hegemony. Here, again, specific economic upswings are associated with an increased likelihood of the outbreak of core war. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It is widely accepted that the current K-wave</span>, which entered a downturn around 1967-73, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is</span> probably <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">now</span> in the process of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">beginning a new upturn which will reach its apex around 2025</span>. It is also widely accepted that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by this period US hegemony</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">already unraveling</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">will have</span> been definitively <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">eroded</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This convergence of a plateauing economic cycle with</span> a period of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">political multicentricity</span> within the core <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">should</span>, if history truly does repeat itself, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">result in the outbreak of full-scale warfare between the declining hegemon and the ascending core powers</span>. Although both Goldstein (1991) and Modelski and Thompson (1996) assert that such a global war can (somehow) be avoided, other <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">theorists consider that the possibility of such a core war is sufficiently high that serious steps should be taken to ensure that such collective suicide does not occur</span> .


Upswing wars outweigh – they’re 21 times as deadly

<span class="Underline">**Goldstein, ‘88**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - Joshua S. Goldstein, Professor of International Relations, American University, 1988, Long Cycles, pp. 244-248</span>



The connection between economic phase periods and wars is investigated in several ways. Levy’s “great power wars” (class 2, above) are categorized (table 11.4) according to the economic phase period in which the war “mainly” fell (see definitions above, p. 239). Thirty-one wars occurred during upswings, twenty-seven during downswings, and six seriously overlapped phase periods (see also table 11.5, column 7). Thus hardly any more wars occurred on the upswing phases than the downswings. But <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in total battle fatalities</span> (severity), except for the 1575—94 upswing, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there is a clear alternation between upswing and downswing</span> phases. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">More severe wars occurred during upswing phases</span>. I have tabulated six war indicators by phase period (table 11 .5).26 The first indicator (col. 3) derives from the list of fatalities (table 11.4), here expressed as an average annual fatality rate in each phase.27 This indicator is also displayed as a bar chart in figure 11.3. With the exception of the (low-fatality) upswing of 1575—94, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fatalities follow the pattern</span> of upswings and downswings <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">throughout the 481-year span of the data</span>. Up through 1892, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the average annual fatality ratewas</span> six times higher on upswings than on downswings; if the twentieth century is included, it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is twenty-one times higher on upswings than downswings</span>. Categorizing the same fatality data “strictly” by phase period (col. 4),28 in conjunction with the method just discussed, points to sensitivities to the exact dating of turning points. Not surprisingly, the main effect is on the twentieth century’s two world wars, each overlapping one to two years into an adjacent phase. The results also show the weakest correlation to be in the period 1495—1620. Nonetheless, the fatality rate on upswings is still more than four times higher than on downswings for both 1495—1892 and 1495—1975. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The greater severity of war on</span> long wave <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">upswings</span>, then, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is a very strong and consistent correlation</span>.29


Growth collapses the environment – causes extinction

<span class="Cite">Speth, ‘08</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – Rhodes Scholar @ Oxford University, Chairman of Council on Environmental Quality for Executive Office, Founder of World Recourses Institute (Think-Tank), Led the Western Hemisphere Dialogue on Environment and Development, Administrator of United Nations Development Program, Dean of Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Leader of the President’s Task Force on Global Recourses and the Environment, Holds multiple awards—National Wildlife Federation’s Recourse Defense Award and Lifetime Achievement Award of Environmental Law Institute, and Blue Planet Prize, James, “The Bridge at the Edge of the World”, pages 1-9</span>


The remarkable charts that introduce this book reveal the story of humanity’s impact on the natural earth.' The pattern is clear: if we could speed up time, it would seem as if <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the global economy is crashing against the earth—</span>the Great Collision. And like the crash of an aster- oid, the damage is enormous. For all the material blessings economic progress has provided, for all the disease and destitution avoided, for all the glories that shine in the best of our civilization, the costs to the natural world, the costs to the glories of nature, have been huge and must be counted in the balance as tragic loss. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Half the world ’s tropical and temperate forests are now gone.’ The rate of deforestation in the tropics continues at about an acre a second.’ </span>About <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">half the wetlands and a third of the mangroves are gone</span>.‘ An estimated <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">90 percent of the large predator fish are gone, and 75 percent of marine fisheries are now overfished</span> or fished to capacity.’ <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Twenty percent of the corals are gone, and another 20 percent severely threatened. Species are disappearing at rates about a thousand times faster than normal.’ The planet has not seen such a spasm of extinction in sixty-ﬁve million years, since the dinosaurs disappeared</span>.” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Over half the agricultural land in drier regions suffers from some degree of deterioration and desertification</span>.° Persistent <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">toxic chemicals can now be found by the dozens in essentially each and every one of us</span>.” Human impacts are now large relative to natural systems. The earth’s stratospheric ozone layer was severely depleted before the change was discovered. Human activities have pushed atmospheric carbon diox- ide up by more than a third and have started in earnest the dangerous process of warming the planet and disrupting climate. Everywhere earth’s ice ﬁelds are melting." <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Industrial processes are fixing nitrogen, making it biologically active, at a rate equal to nature’s; one result is the development of more than two hundred dead zones in the oceans due to overfertilization.” Human actions already consume or destroy each year about 40 percent of nature ’s photosynthetic output, leaving too little for other species." Freshwater withdrawals doubled globally between 1960 and 2000, and are now over half of accessible runoff." </span>The following rivers no longer reach the oceans in the dry season: the Colorado, Yellow, Ganges, and Nile, among others." Societies are now traveling together in the midst of this unfolding calamity down a path that links two worlds. Behind is the world we have lost, ahead the world we are making. It is difficult to appreciate the abundance of wild nature in the world we have lost. In America we can think of the pre-Columbian world of 1491, of Lewis and Clark, and of John James Audubon. It is a world where nature is large and we are not. It is a world of majestic old-growth forests stretching from the Atlantic to the Mississippi, of oceans brimming with fish, of clear skies literally darkened by passing ﬂocks of birds. As William MacLeish notes in T he Day beﬁnre Amer- ica, in 1602 an Englishman wrote in his journal that the ﬁsh schooled so thickly he thought their backs were the sea bottom. Bison once roamed east to Florida. There were jaguars in the Southeast, griz- zly bear in the Midwest, and wolves, elk and mountain lions in New England.“ Audubon described the breathtaking multitudes of the passenger pi- geon migration, as well as the rapacity of their wild and human preda- tors: “Few pigeons were to be seen before sunset; but a great number of persons, with horses and wagons, guns and ammunition, had already established encampments. . . . Suddenly, there burst forth a general cry of ‘Here they come!’ The noise which they made, though yet distant, reminded me of a hard gale at sea. . . . As the birds arrived, and passed over me, I felt a current of air that surprised me. Thousands were soon knocked down by polemen. The current of birds, however, still kept increasing. . . . The pigeons, coming in by thousands, alighted every- where, one above another, until solid masses . . . were formed on every tree, in all directions. . . . The uproar continues . . . the whole night. . . . Toward the approach of day, the noise rather subsided. . . . The howlings of the wolves now reached our ears; and the foxes, lynxes, cougars, bears, raccoons, opossums, and pole-cats were seen sneaking off from the spot. Whilst eagles and hawks, of different species, accom- panied by a crowd of vultures, came to supplant them, and enjoy their share of the spoil. It was then that the authors of all this devastation began their entry amongst the dead, the dying, and the mangled. The pigeons were picked up and piled in heaps, until each had as many as he could possibly dispose of, when the hogs were let loose to feed on the remainder.”" The last passenger pigeon on earth expired in a zoo in Cincinnati in 1914. Some decades later, forester and philosopher Aldo Leopold offered these words at a ceremony on this passing: “We grieve because no living man will see again the onrushing phalanx of victorious birds, sweeping a path for spring across the March skies, chasing the defeated winter from all the woods and prairies. . . . Men still live who, in their youth, remember pigeons. Trees still live who, in their youth, were shaken by a living wind. . . . There will always be pigeons in books and in museums, but these are eﬂigies and images, dead to all hard- ships and to all delights. Book-pigeons cannot dive out of a cloud to make the deer run for cover, or clap their wings in thunderous ap- plause of mast-laden woods. Book-pigeons cannot breakfast on new- mown wheat in Minnesota and dine on blueberries in Canada. They know no urge of seasons; they feel no kiss of sun, no lash of wind and weather.” ‘8 Human societies are moving, rapidly now, between the two worlds. The movement began slowly, but now we are hurtling toward the world directly ahead. The old world, nature’s world, continues, of course, but we are steadily closing it down, roping it off. It ﬂourishes in our art and literature and in our imaginations. But it is disappearing. Economic historian Angus Maddison reports that in the year 1000 there were only about 270 million people on earth—fewer than today’s U.S. population. Global economic output was only about $120 billion. Eight hundred years later, the man-made world was still small. By 1820, populations had risen to about a billion people with an output of only $690 billion. Over this eight hundred years, per capita income increased by only a couple of hundred dollars a year. But shortly thereafter the take-off began. By 2000, populations had swelled by an additional ﬁve billion, and, astoundingly, economic output had grown to exceed forty trillion dollars.” The acceleration continues. The size of the world economy doubled since 1960, and then doubled again. World economic activity is projected to quadruple again by midcentury. Historian R. McNeill has stressed the phenomenal expansion of the human enterprise in the twentieth century. It was in the twentieth century, and especially since World War II, that human society truly left the moorings of its past and launched itself on the planet with unprecedented force. McNeill observes that this exponential century “shattered the constraints and rough stability of old economic, demo- graphic, and energy regimes.” “In environmental history,” he writes, “the twentieth century qualifies as a peculiar century because of the screeching acceleration of so many of the processes that bring eco- logical change.”Z° We live now in a full world, dramatically unlike the world of 1900, or even that of 1950. Physicists have a precise concept of momentum. To them momentum is mass times velocity, and velocity is not ust speed but also direction. Today the world economy has gathered tremendous momentum—it is both huge in size and growing fast. But what is its direction? I am seated in my study as I write this, looking at a stack of books about two feet high. They share a common theme, and it is not a happy one to contemplate. We can see this theme immediately in their titles.” By a conservative jurist: Richard A. Posner, Catastrophe: Risk and Response By the president of the Royal Society in the United Kingdom: Martin Rees, Our Final Hour: How Yerror, Error and Environmental Disaster Threaten Human/cind’s Future By a leading American scholar: Jared Diamond, Collapse: I-low Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed By a British scientist: James Lovelock, The Revenge ofGaia.' Why the Earth Is Fighting Bad: and How We Can Still Save Humanity By an American expert: James Howard Kunstler, The Long Emergency: Surviving the End of Oil, Climate Change, and Other Converging Catastrophes of the Twang-first Century By a U.S. expert on conﬂict: Michael T. Klare, Resource Wars: The New Landscape of Global Conflict By an Australian diplomat and historian: Colin Mason, The 2q3o Spi/re: The Countdown to Global Catastrophe That is but a sample of the “collapse” books now on the market. Each of these authors sees the world on a path to some type of col- lapse, catastrophe, or breakdown, and they each see climate change and other environmental crises as leading ingredients of a devil’s brew that also includes such stresses as population pressures, peak oil and other energy supply problems, economic and political instabilities, ter- rorism, nuclear proliferation, the risks of various twenty-ﬁrst-century technologies, and similar threats. Some think a bright future is still possible if we change our ways in time; others see a new dark ages as the likely outcome. For Sir Martin Rees, “the odds are no better than ﬁfty-ﬁfty that our present civilization on earth will survive to the end of the present century.””2 Personally, I cannot imagine that the risks are so great, but Rees is a thoughtful individual. In any case, it would be foolish to dismiss these authors. They provide a stark warning of what could happen. The escalating processes of climate disruption, biotic impoverish- ment, and toxiﬁcation that continue despite decades of warnings and earnest effort constitute a severe indictment, but an indictment of what exactly? If we want to reverse today's destructive trends, forestall fur- ther and greater losses, and leave a bountiful world for our children and grandchildren, we must return to fundamentals and seek to understand both the underlying forces driving such destructive trends and the economic and political system that gives these forces free rein. Then we can ask what can be done to change the system. The underlying drivers of today’s environmental deterioration have been clearly identiﬁed. They range from immediate forces like the enormous growth in human population and the dominant technolo- gies deployed in the economy to deeper ones like the values that shape our behavior and determine what we consider important in life. Most basically, we know that environmental deterioration is driven by the economic activity of human beings. About half of today’s world popu- lation lives in abject poverty or close to it, with per capita incomes of less than two dollars a day. The struggle of the poor to survive cre- ates a range of environmental impacts where the poor themselves are often the primary victims—for example, the deterioration of arid and semiarid lands due to the press of increasing numbers of people who have no other option. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But the much larger and more threatening impacts stem from the economic activity of those of us participating in the modern, increas- ingly prosperous world economy. This activity is consuming vast quantities of resources from the environment and returning to the en- vironment vast quantities of waste products</span>. The damages are already huge and are on a path to be ruinous in the future. So, a fundamental question facing societies today—perhaps the fundamental question—is how can the operating instructions for the modern world economy be changed so that economic activity both protects and restores the natural world? With increasingly few exceptions, modern capitalism is the operat- ing system of the world economy. I use “modern capitalism” here in a broad sense as an actual, existing system of political economy, not as an idealized model. Capitalism as we know it today encompasses the core economic concept of private employers hiring workers to produce products and services that the employers own and then sell with the intention of making a proﬁt. But it also includes competitive markets, the price mechanism, the modern corporation as its principal institu- tion, the consumer society and the materialistic values that sustain it, and the administrative state actively promoting economic strength and growth for a variety of reasons. Inherent in the dynamics of capitalism is a powerful drive to earn proﬁts, invest them, innovate, and thus grow the economy, typically at exponential rates, with the result that the capitalist era has in fact been characterized by a remarkable exponential expansion of the world economy. The capitalist operating system, whatever its shortcomings, is very good at generating growth. These <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">features of capitalism, as they are constituted today, work together to produce an economic and political reality that is highly destructive of the environment. An unquestioning society-wide commitment to economic growth at almost any cost; enormous investment in technologies designed with little regard for the environment; powerful corporate interests whose overriding objective is to grow by generating profit, including profit from avoiding the environmental costs they create; markets that systematically fail to recognize environmental costs unless corrected by government; government that is subservient to corporate interests and the growth imperative; rampant consumerism spurred by a worshipping of novelty and by sophisticated advertising; economic activity so large in scale that its impacts alter the fundamental biophysical operations of the planet—all combine to deliver an ever-growing world economy that is undermining the planet’s ability to sustain life.</span>


Dedev’s key to solve warming – impact’s extinction

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Li, ‘10</span>**</span> – Assistant Prof Economics @ U of Utah, Minqi, The 21st Century Crisis: Climate Catastrophe or Socialism, Paper prepared for the David Gordon Memorial Lecture at URPE Summer Conference 2010, www.econ.utah.edu/~mli/Economics%25207004/Article%2520Forthcoming%2520RRPE%2520David%2520Gordon%2520Lecture.doc


The global average surface temperature is now about 0.8°C (0.8 degree Celsius) higher than the pre-industrial time. Under the current trend, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the world is on track towards a long-term warming between 4°C and 8°C</span>. At this level of global warming, the world would be in <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">an extreme greenhouse state not seen for almost 100 million years, devastating human civilization and destroying nearly all forms of life on the present earth</span> (Conner and McCarthy 2009). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The scientific community has reached the consensus that the current global warming results from</span> the excessive accumulation in the atmosphere of carbon dioxide (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">CO2</span>) and other <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">greenhouse gases</span> (such as methane and nitrous oxide) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">emitted by human economic activities</span>.1 The capitalist historical epoch has been characterized by the explosive growth of material production and consumption. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The massive expansion of the world economy has been powered by fossil fuels</span> (coal, oil, and natural gas). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Since 1820, the world economy has expanded by about seventy times and the world emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil fuels burning have increased by about sixty times</span> (see Figure 1). At the United Nations conference on climate change concluded at Copenhagen in December 2009, the world’s governments officially committed to the objective of limiting global warming to no more than 2°C. However, according to the “Climate Action Tracker”, despite the official statement, the national governments’ current pledges regarding emission reduction in fact imply a warming of at least 3°C by the end of the 21st century with more warming to come in the following centuries (Climate Action Tracker 2010). In reality, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">all the major national governments are committed to infinite economic growth and none of them is willing to consider any emission reduction policy that could undermine economic growth</span>. This is not simply because of intellectual ignorance or lack of political will. The pursuit of endless accumulation of capital (and infinite economic growth) is derived from the basic laws of motion of the capitalist economic system<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. Without fundamental social transformation, human civilization is now on the path to self-destruction</span>. The next section (Section 2) reviews the basic scientific facts concerning the climate change crisis. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Without an end of economic growth, it is virtually impossible for meaningful climate stabilization</span> to be achieved (Section 3). However, both capitalist enterprises and states are constantly driven to expand production and consumption. The system of nation states effectively rules out a meaningful global political solution to the climate change crisis (Section 4). The climate change crisis is but one of several long-term historical trends that are now leading to the structural crisis of capitalism (Section 5). The resolution of the crisis and the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">survival of the humanity require the building of a fundamentally different social system</span> that is based on social ownership of the means of production and society-wide planning (Section 6).


Growth causes China war

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Boehmer</span>**</span>, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">10</span>**</span> (Charles R., Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Texas El Paso, “Economic Growth and violent international conflict: 1875-1999,” Defence and Peace Economics, Volume 21, Issue 3, June)


Are states with growing economies potential threats to international peace? Theories among scholars and opinions in policy circles suggest this is so, although the academic theories in this area of study are quite contradictory and we lack sufficient systematic empirical evidence to provide an answer. The systematic study of this question has been uneven with many tests not applying a sample of states reflective of the interstate system. Further research on this topic is required given that it continues to be of importance. For example, does Chinese economic and military growth pose a danger to peace and stability? Is this a fair or relevant question and, if so, what other states could pose a risk to peace? This manuscript offers some theoretical expectations and empirical tests of this economic growth and conflict proposition. To use the Chinese case as an illustration, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">some in policy circles fear that Chinese GDP growth and military expenditures pose a danger to the security of Asian states, the United States, and its allies</span>. This could be true, but other factors may mitigate such a danger. What evidence exists to support such concerns? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There is some historical precedent. China and Vietnam fought wars against each other in 1979 and 1987. China’s GDP growth had been averaging around 6% in the five years prior to the first Sino-Vietnamese War and almost 9% prior to the second Sino-Vietnamese War. Vietnam’s growth rate had also been averaging over 6% a year in the five years prior to the second Sino-Vietnamese War. Figure 1 shows that Chinese military expenditure levels have been high since 1990 and Figure 2 shows that China’s GDP growth rates exceeded 6% a year since 1980. </span>1 Is this representative of a particular strategy or plan that is inherently bellicose? Are such patterns similar to past instances of growing states becoming involved in war? Such trends alarm those in policy circles because <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China has clashed militarily with many of its neighbors in the past century</span> (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">South Korea, Japan, Vietnam, USSR, and India). </span>United States Secretary of Defense, Donald Rumsfeld, publicly warned in February, June, and October of 2005 that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">China’s arms build-up poses a threat to the region </span>and, in December of that year, the Pentagon stated that the United States might reverse its trend in ship reductions and increase the size of its navy (Cloud, 2005; Schmitt, 2005; Shanker, 2005). FIGURE 2 Five-year moving average of Chinese GDP growth. FIGURE 1 Chinese military expenditures: 1980–1999. Scholars have studied the question of economic growth, militarization, and war from several theoretical perspectives. Some theories predict that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">economic growth increases military expenditures. States may use these ‘war chests’ to expand their interests, resulting in new militarized conflicts</span> or continuing ongoing conflicts. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Economic growth may also have sociological effects, leading to moods of foreign policy adventurism, increasing the risk of war</span>when it becomes less taboo or feared, followed then by more isolationists moods. In contrast, Marxist theories and diversionary theories argue that lower rates of growth lead to domestic crises that spur on international conflicts, either as states compete over markets and resources in the former theories, or to the externalization of domestic conflict in the latter theories. The problem with all of these theories is that it is unclear if such foreign policy behaviors, purportedly relating to economic growth to war, can be generalized to all states in the international system or are idiosyncratic to certain states. Diversionary conflict studies, for example, have focused mostly on the United States, with the exception of a few cases – such as the Malvinas/Falklands war (Levy and Vakili, 1992; Morgan and Anderson, 1999). The foreign policy moods literature similarly focuses on the case of the United States, whereas the ‘war chest’ proposition appears most rooted in European history. Thus, we do not know, based on systematic evidence, whether economic growth affects the general occurrence of violent international conflicts. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In this study, I provide a theory of economic growth and interstate conflict arguing that economic growth particularly increases the chance of interstate violence but not necessarily the onset or initiation of militarized conflicts. I test my theory with a broad sample of states from all regions of the world from 1875 until 1999. The results show that economic growth rates, not growth of military expenditures, increase the risk of violent interstate conflicts.</span>


And,

<span class="Underline">**Walton 7**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49</span>



Obviously. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is of vital importance to the United States that the PRC does not become the hegemon of Eastern Eurasia</span>. As noted above, however, regardless of what Washington does. ('hina’s success in such an endeavor is not as easily attainable as pessimists might assume. The PRC appears to be on track to be a very great power indeed, but geopolitical conditions are not favorable for any Chinese effort to establish sole hegemony; a robust multipolar system should suffice to keep China in check. even with only minimal American intervention in local squabbles. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The more worrisome danger is that Beijing will cooperate with a great power partner, establishing a very muscular axis. Such an entity would present a critical danger to the balance of power. thus both necessitating very active American intervention in Eastern Eurasia and creating the under- lying conditions for a massive, and probably nuclear, great power war.</span> Absent such a “super-threat." however. the demands on American leaders will be far more subtle: creating the conditions for Washington’s gentle decline from playing the role of unipolar quasi-hegcmon to being “merely” the greatest of the world’s powers, while aiding in the creation of a healthy multipolar system that is not marked by close great power alliances.


Growth kills agricultural diversity

<span class="Underline">**Chen 2k**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Professor of Law and Vance K. Opperman Research Scholar, University of Minnesota Law School (Jim, Globalization and Its Losers, Winter 2000, 9 Minn. J. Global Trade 157, Lexis)</span>


There is one respect in which <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">dispersed farm ownership may improve agriculture's environmental performance</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Smaller</span>, owner-operated <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">farms excel in preserving rare animal breeds and heirloom seeds</span>. The precise contours of agriculture's relationship with biodiversity preservation, however, still fail to justify legal interference with globalization. Like America, the impulse toward species conservation "was born in the country and moved to the city." n296 Our awareness of extinction began on the farm. The opening chapter of The Origin of Species explored variation in domesticated plants and animals. n297 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As industrialization forced smaller farms to fold or consolidate, entire landraces, varieties, and breeds vanished</span>. The biological crisis of Darwin's England has spread to the rest of the globe. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Agriculture's shallow genetic pool is being drained at a breakneck pace "as human population and economic pressures</span> [*205] <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">accelerate the pace of change in traditional agricultural systems.</span>" n298 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Globalization portends dire consequences for agricultural biodiversity. Rural communities preserve rare animal breeds and plant varieties in situ.</span> Over many generations, traditional foraging and agrarian communities have amassed volumes of ethnobiological knowledge. n299 The world's untapped ethnobiological knowledge, "if gathered and catalogued, would constitute a library of Alexandrian proportions." n300 Much of this knowledge, locked as it is in endangered languages, will be irretrievable if linguistic diversity continues to decline. n301


Extinction

<span class="Underline">**Mulvany, ’01**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – senior policy adviser at Practical Action, Chair of the UK Food Group, has been a trustee of Oxfam, Action Aid and CIIR and adviser to many other international NGOs. He was a founder editorial board member of Development in Practice journal. Masters degree from Oxford University and is a chartered member of the Institute of Biology AND Rachel Berger climate change Policy Advisor with Practical Action (Patrick, Agricultural Biodiversity: Farmers Sustaining the Web of Life, http://practicalaction.org/docs/advocacy/fwn_bio-div_briefing.pdf)</span>



Agricultural biodiversity embraces the living matter that produces food and other farm products, supports production and shapes agricultural landscapes. The variety of tastes, textures and colours in food is a product of agricultural biodiversity. This biodiversity is the result of the interaction by smallholder farmers, herders and artisanal ﬁsherfolk with other species over millennia. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Selecting and managing these for local nutritional, social and economic needs has produced the agricultural biodiversity on which humanity depends. Food production systems need to be rooted in sustaining agricultural biodiversity so that farmers everywhere can continue to provide food and livelihoods and maintain life on Earth.</span> STRENGTH IN DIVERSITY At a time of unprecedented changes in society, population and the environment, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">agricultural biodiversity also provides some security against future adversity, be it from climate change, war, industrial developments, biotechnological calamities or ecosystem collapse. There is greater strength in diversity than in susceptible uniformity. A diversity of varieties, breeds and species will ensure that there will continue to be agricultural production whatever the threat, and hidden in the genetic code of today's crop plants and livestock are many invisible traits that may become useful in confronting future challenges</span>



Dedev solves industrial pollution

<span class="Cite">Begley, 9</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Sharon, senior editor at Newsweek, Newsweek, March 16, “The Recession’s Green Lining”) </span>



To savvy snowboarders, Baikalsk has long been the beautiful resort where visitors are so few you can feel as though you own the mountain, at least temporarily: for about 5,000 rubles ($175), you can have exclusive use of one of the six long runs for the day and never see another soul as you schuss through forests. Of course, you've had to tolerate a smell that seemed to be a blend of rotten cabbage and New Jersey Turnpike. For in addition to the resort, this town on Siberia's Lake Baikal—the oldest, largest and deepest freshwater lake in the world—is home to the Baikal Pulp and Paper Mill, which has been belching foul-smelling sulfates into the air and chlorides, phenols and other chemicals into the lake since it was built during the Cold War. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The pollution killed plants, crabs and fish and threatened the world's only freshwater seal, the earless nerpa. Environmentalists have been trying to shut down the mill since 1964,</span> getting precisely nowhere. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But where greens failed, the global recession succeeded all too well.</span> In November, the plant ceased production. "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The economic crisis," says</span> Marina <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rikhvanova</span>, the head of the environmental group Baikal Wave, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">worked "like magic." It is no coincidence that </span>some of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the dirtiest industrial operations are falling victim to the global recession</span>. Over the past two decades, much of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the world's manufacturing moved to where pollution standards are little more than mild suggestions</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Since small, corner-cutting, inefficient facilities tend to both flout pollution laws and be most vulnerable to a sudden drop in demand, the global recession has hit such operations especially hard. Thousands of factories in China's Pearl River Delta have shut their doors</span> since late last year, for instance; output of autos, electronics and other goods from factories in Mexico's Ciudad Juárez, Monterrey and Toluca has fallen so sharply that the amount of cargo trucked across the U.S. border has dropped 40 percent. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In India, enough small steel-rolling mills around Delhi have closed that levels of sulfur dioxide</span> (which forms acid rain) fell 85 percent in October 2008 compared with a year earlier. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The recession is bringing a green dividend in the developed world, too. Reduced economic activity is projected to cut Europe's emissions of carbon dioxide,</span> the chief man-made greenhouse gas, by 100 million tons in 2009, and the United States' by about the same amount.


Solves ozone depletion

<span class="Cite">EC, ‘03</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Environment Canada, the department of the Government of Canada with responsibility for coordinating environmental policies and programs as well as preserving and enhancing the natural environment and renewable resources, 8/22, “FAQ on Ozone Depletion,” http://www.atl.ec.gc.ca/msc/as/ozone_faq.html)</span>


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">What human activities cause ozone depletion? Emissions of</span> chlorine and bromine containing synthetic compounds known as <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">industrial halocarbons are the cause of stratospheric ozone depletion</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Why are industrial halocarbons so effective at destroying ozone? </span>Industrial halocarbons are effective ozone-depleters for two reasons. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The first is that they are not reactive, which means they survive long enough in the atmosphere to drift up into the stratosphere. The second is that they help the natural reactions that destroy ozone. Unlike most chemicals</span> released into the atmosphere at the Earth's surface, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">industrial halocarbons are not "washed" back to Earth by rain or destroyed in reactions with other chemicals</span>. They simply do not break down in the lower atmosphere and they can remain in the atmosphere from 20 to 120 years or more. Once they reach the stratosphere, UV-C radiation breaks up these molecules into chlorine (from CFCs, methyl chloroform, carbon tetrachloride) or bromine (from halons, methyl bromide) which, in turn, break up ozone (O3). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Both chlorine and bromine activate and speed up the ozone destruction reactions without being altered or destroyed themselves. Thus, a single chlorine atom can destroy up to 100,000 ozone molecules before it finally forms a stable compound and diffuses out of the stratosphere.</span>


Extinction

<span class="Cite">Greenpeace, 95</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> “Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html]]</span>.</span>


When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina first postulated a link between chlorofluorocarbons and ozone layer depletion in 1974, the news was greeted with scepticism, but taken seriously nonetheless. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The vast majority of credible scientists have since confirmed this hypothesis. The ozone layer around the Earth shields us all from harmful ultraviolet radiation</span> from the sun. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Without the ozone layer, life on earth would not exist</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Exposure to increased levels of ultraviolet radiation can cause cataracts, skin cancer, and immune system suppression in humans as well as innumerable effects on other living systems</span>. This is why Rowland's and Molina's theory was taken so seriously, so quickly - <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the stakes are literally the continuation of life on earth</span>.


Complexity makes collapse inevitable – collapse now causes mindset shift

<span class="Cite">Speth 8</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – Rhodes Scholar @ Oxford University, Chairman of Council on Environmental Quality for Executive Office, Founder of World Recourses Institute (Think-Tank), Led the Western Hemisphere Dialogue on Environment and Development, Administrator of United Nations Development Program, Dean of Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Leader of the President’s Task Force on Global Recourses and the Environment, Holds multiple awards—National Wildlife Federation’s Recourse Defense Award and Lifetime Achievement Award of Environmental Law Institute, and Blue Planet Prize, James, “The Bridge at the Edge of the World”, p 211-5</span>


Forces for Change The very practical and very difficult question is what might spur human sensibilities in these directions? When one considers our world today, with its widespread ethnic hatreds, intrastate warfare, and immense violence, militarism, and terrorism, not to mention the dysfunctional values already addressed, the task can seem hopelessly idealistic. In truth, it is precisely because of these calamities, which are linked in many ways, that one must search for answers and hope desperately to ﬁnd them. There is a vast literature on cultural change and evolution. In what spirit, then, should we take up the question of spurring change? The goal must be forging cultural change, not waiting on it. Here, the in- sight of Daniel Patrick Moynihan is helpful: “The central conservative truth is that culture, not politics, determines the success of a society. The central liberal truth is that politics can change a culture and save it from itself .”2' Historian Harvey Nelsen has asked the right question: “How . . . can politics save a culture from itself?” “There is only one way,” he answers, “through the development of new consciousness?” People have conversion experiences and epiphanies. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Can an entire society have a conversion experience? Unfortunately, the surest path to widespread cultural change is a cataclysmic event that profoundly affects shared values and delegitimizes the status quo and existing leadership. The Great Depression is a classic example</span>. I believe that both 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina could have led to real cultural change in the United States, both for the better, but America lacked the inspired leadership needed. The most thorough look at this issue from the perspective here is Thomas Homer-Dixon’s The Upside of Down. He argues “that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">our circumstances today are surprisingly like Rome’s in key ways. Our societies are also becoming steadily more complex and often more rigid. This is happening partly because we ’re trying to manage—often with limited success—stresses building inside our societi</span>es, including stresses arising from our gargantuan appetite for energy. . . . <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Eventually, as occurred in Rome, the stresses may become too extreme, and our societies too inﬂexible to respond, and some kind of economic or political breakdown will occur. . . . </span>“People often use the words ‘breakdown’ and ‘collapse ’ synony- mously. But in my view, although both breakdown and collapse pro- duce a radical simplification of a system, they differ in their long-term consequences. Breakdown may be serious, but it’s not catastrophic. Something can be salvaged after breakdown occurs and perhaps rebuilt better than before. Collapse, on the other hand, is far more harmful. . . . “In coming years, I believe, foreshocks are likely to become larger and more frequent. Some could take the form of threshold events—like climate ﬂips, large jumps in energy prices, boundary-crossing out- breaks of new infectious disease, or international ﬁnancial crises. ”” I-Iomer-Dixon argues that foreshocks and breakdowns can lead to positive change if the ground is prepared. “We need to prepare to turn breakdown to our advantage when it happens—because it will,” he says.“ Homer-Dixon’s point is critically important. Breakdowns, of course, do not necessarily lead to positive outcomes; authoritarian ones and Fortress World are also possibilities. Turning a breakdown to advantage will require both inspired leadership and a new story that articulates a positive vision grounded in what is best in the society's values and history. A congressman is said to have told a citizens’ group, “If you will lead, your leaders will follow.” But it doesn’t have to be that way. Harvard ’s Howard Gardner stresses this potential of true leadership in his book Changing Minds: “Whether they are heads of a nation or senior ofﬁcials of the United Nations, leaders of large, disparate populations have enormous potential to change minds . . . and in the process they can change the course of history. “I have suggested one way to capture the attention of a disparate population: by creating a compelling story, embodying that story in one ’s own life, and presenting the story in many different formats so that it can eventually topple the counterstories in one ’s culture. . . . [T] he story must be simple, easy to identify with, emotionally resonant, and evocative of positive experiences?” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There is evidence that Americans are ready for another story. As noted, large majorities of Americans, when polled, express disenchantment with today ’s lifestyles and offer support for values similar to those discussed here.“</span> But these values are held along with other strongly felt and often conﬂicting values, and we are all pinned down by old habits, fears, insecurities, social pressures, and in other ways. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A new story that helps people find their way out of this confusion and dissonance could help lead to real change. </span>Gardner’s stress on story and narrative is thus important. Bill Moy- ers, a powerful force for good in our country, has written that “America needs a different story. . . . Everywhere you turn you’ll ﬁnd people who believe they have been written out of the story. Everywhere you turn there ’s a sense of insecurity grounded in a gnawing fear that freedom in America has come to mean the freedom of the rich to get richer even as millions of Americans are dumped from the Dream. So let me say what I think up front: The leaders and thinkers and activists who honestly tell that story and speak passionately of the moral and religious values it puts in play will be the first political generation since the New Deal to win power back for the people. . . . Here, in the ﬁrst decade of the 21 st century, the story that becomes America’s dominant narrative will shape our collective imagination and hence our politics.”” If Moyers addresses the social aspects of our need for a new nar- rative, many other authors have begun to develop new stories of our relationship with nature—'I‘homas Berry in T/ze Dream of the Eart/z, Carolyn Merchant in Reinventing Eden, Evan Eisenberg in T/ze Ecology ofEden, Bill McKibben in Deep Ecology, and others.” One story that needs to be told is about a people who set out on a journey—a journey through time—to build a better world for themselves and their chil- dren. High-minded and full of hope as they began, they accomplished much in their quest. But they became so enamored of their successes, indeed captured by them, that they failed to see the signs that pointed in new directions, and they became lost. Now they must find their way back to the right path.” Another source of value change is social movements. Social move- ments are all about raising consciousness and, if successful, can usher in a new consciousness. We speak casually about the environmen- tal movement. We need a real one. One can hear echoes of Reich in Curtis White ’s book The Spirit of Disobidience. “Although the sixties counterculture has been much maligned and discredited, it attempted to provide what we still desperately need: a spirited culture of refusal, a counterlife to the reigning corporate culture of death. We don’t need to return to that counterculture, but we do need to take up its challenge again. If the work we do produces mostly bad, ugly, and destructive things, those things in turn will tend to recreate us in their image. “If we’re concerned about the kind of human future we are creat- ing, we must also be concerned with how we are living in the present. Unhappily, how we live is presently the near exclusive concern of cor- porations and media conglomerates which have, together, turned every Main Street into the same street and made the inside of every American head echo with the same vacuous music and movie/ TV scenarios. This is the arena in which a spiritualized disobedience means most.”’° Another way forward to a new consciousness should lie in the world’s religions. Mary Evelyn Tucker has noted that “no other group of institutions can wield the particular moral authority of the religions” and that “the environmental crisis calls the religions of the world to respond by ﬁnding their voice within the larger Earth community. In so doing, the religions are now entering their ecological phase and ﬁnd- ing their planetary expression.”3' <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The potential of faith communities is enormous. About 85 percent of the world’s people belong to one of the ten thousand or so religions,</span> and about two-thirds of the global population is Christian, muslim or hindu. Religions played key roles in ending slavery, the in the civil rights movement, and in overcoming apartheid in South Africa, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and they are now turning attention with increasing strength to the environment. </span>


==<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Zupancic Shenanigans</span>== 


1.) __The Deception__ - Their attempt to “justify” the affirmative to the community through a pre-existing ethic inexorably ties them to the power structures they try to challenge by enabling us to hide our personal infinite obligation

<span class="Cite">Zupancic 2K</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ethics of the Real</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; p. 58-60</span>



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If, however, we accept Kant's position, another trap soon presents itself: the 'Sadeian trap'. The Kantian subject cannot escape the Real involved in unconditional duty by hiding behind the image of his fellow-man - but neither can this subject hide behind his duty, and use duty as an excuse for his actions. As Slavoj Zizek has pointed out,</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> __as ethical subject I cannot say: 'Sorry, I know it was unpleasant, but I couldn't help it – the moral law imposed that act on me as my unconditional duty!__' </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">On the contrary, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the subject is</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;"> fully responsible for what he refers to as his duty</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 18</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> __The type of discourse where I use my duty as an excuse for my actions is **perverse**__ </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in the strictest sense of the word. Here, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the subject attributes to the Other (to Duty or to the Law) the surplus-enjoyment he derives from his actions: 'I am sorry if my actions hurt you, but I only did what the Other wanted me to do, so go and talk to It if you have any objections.</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">' In this case, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the subject is hiding behind the law</span>__**<span style="font-size: 16px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In order to illustrate this, let us take an example suggested by Allison.19 Suppose I have a violent dislike for someone, and have come into possession of a piece of information about him, which I know will cause him great pain if he learns of it. With the intent of causing him pain, I decide to inform him of the matter, but I justify this action to myself on the grounds of his right to know. Accordingly, rather than admitting that this is a vicious act of inflicting unnecessary pain on another, I represent it to myself (and perhaps to others) as a laudable act of truth-telling.I might even convince myself that it is my sacred duty. Allison takes this example to illustrate what he calls the ' self-deception' by means of which we are able to ignore 'the morally salient factor(s)' of a situation. We will take this example, however, as an illustration of something else: </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the **perverse attitude**</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">which </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">consists in presenting our **duty as an excuse for our actions**</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">What is more, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">we are dealing here with a case of //double// 'self-deception'.</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The first moment of self-deception is the one pointed out by Allison: </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">we deceive ourselves as to our actual intention, which is to hurt another</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">. But this self-deception is possible only on the basis of another, more fundamental moment of self-deception. It is possible only in so far as we take (the 'content' of) our duty to be **'ready-made', pre-existing our involvement in the situation**.</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is why it would be impossible to expose this person's actions as hypocritical by saying to him: 'We know that your real intention was to hurt another person.' In this case he would simply go on asserting hypocritically that he had to muster all his strength in order to tell the truth to the other, that he himself suffered enormously when he hurt the other, yet could not avoid it, because it was his duty to do so . . . . The only way to unmask this kind of hypocrite is to ask him: 'And where is it written that i t is your duty to tell the other what you know? What makes you believe this is your duty? Are you ready to answer for your duty? ' According to the fundamental principles of Kantian ethics, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">duty is only that which the subject makes his duty; it does not exist somewhere 'outside', like the Ten Commandments. It is the subject who makes something his duty, and has to answer for it</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The categorical imperative is not a test which would enable us to make a list (even a list that is not exhaustive) of ethical deeds, a sort of 'catechism of pure reason', behind which we could hide the surplus-enjoyment we derive from our acts.20</span>



2.) __We demand to go farther__ - These justifications hold back our infinite ethical militancy link-turning the aff and intensifying structural violence

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__Zizek & Daly ‘4__**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 8px; text-align: justify;">(Slavoj Zizek, Senior Researcher, Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, and Glyn Daly, Lecturer and Instructor, Political Theory and Thought, Northampton University, 2004, __Conversations With Zizek__, p. 14-19)</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">This is not to endorse any retrograde return to economism. Zizek's point is rather that in rejecting economism </span>__we should not lose sight of the__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> systemic </span>__power of capital in shaping__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> the lives and destinies of humanity and </span>__our very sense of the possible__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. In particular, we should not overlook Marx's central insight that in order to create a universal global system the forces of capitalism seek to conceal the politico-discursive violence of its construction through a kind of gentrification of that system. What is persistently denied by neo-liberals such as Rorty (1989) and Fukuyama (1992) is that the gentrification of global liberal </span>__capital__<span style="font-size: 8px;">ism is one whose </span>__'universalism'__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> fundamentally reproduces and </span>__depends__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> up</span>__on__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> a </span>__disavowed violence__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> that excludes vast sectors of the world's population. In this way, neo-liberal ideology attempts to naturalize capitalism </span>__by presenting__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> its </span>__outcomes__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> of winning and losing </span>__as__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> if they were simply a matter of </span>__chance__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and sound judgement </span>__in a neutral marketplace.__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> Capitalism does indeed create a space for a certain diversity, at least for the central capitalist regions, but it is neither neutral nor ideal and its price in terms of social exclusion is exorbitant. That is to say, </span>__the human cost in__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> terms of </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">inherent global poverty and</span>__degraded 'life-chances'____cannot be calculated within__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> the </span>__existing__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">economic </span>__rationale__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and, in consequence, social exclusion remains mystified and nameless (viz. the patronizing reference to the developing world). And Zizek's point is that this mystification is magnified through capitalism's profound capacity to ingest its own excesses and negativity; to redirect (or misdirect) social antagonisms and to absorb them within a culture of differential affirmation. Instead of Bolshevism, the tendency of today is towards a kind of political boutiquism that is readily sustained by postmodern forms of consumerism and lifestyle. Against this </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Zizek argues for a new universalism whose primary ethical directive is to confront the fact that our forms of social existence are [is] founded on exclusion on a global scale. While it is perfectly true that universalism can never become Universal (it will always require a hegemonic-particular embodiment</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> in order to have any meaning), what is novel about </span>Zizek's universalism<span style="font-size: 8px;"> is that </span>__it____would not__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> attempt to conceal this fact or to </span>__reduce the__ __status of the abject Other to that of a 'glitch' in an otherwise sound matrix.__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> Risking the impossible / The response of the left to global capitalism cannot be one of retreat into the nation-state or into organicist forms of ‘community’ and popular identities that currently abound in Europe and elsewhere. For Zizek it is, rather, a question of working with the very excesses that, in a Lacanian sense, are in capitalism more than capitalism. It is a question, therefore, of transcending the provincial ‘universalism’ of capitalism. To illustrate the point, Zizek draws attention to the category of ‘intellectual property’ and the increasingly absurd attempts to establish restrictive dominion over technological advances – genetic codes, DNA structures, digital communications, pharmaceutical breakthroughs, computer programs and so on – that either affect us all and/or to which there is a sense of common human entitlement. Indeed, the modern conjuncture of capitalism is more and more characterized by a prohibitive culture: the widespread repression of those forms of research and development that have real emancipatory potential beyond exclusive profiteering; the restriction of information that has direct consequences for the future of humanity; the fundamental denial that social equality could be sustained by the abundance generated by capitalism. Capitalism typically endeavors to constrain the very dimensions of the universal that are enabled by it and simultaneously to resist all those developments that disclose its specificity-artificiality as merely one possible mode of being. / The left, therefore, must seek to subvert these ungovernable excesses in the direction of a political (and politicizing) universalism; or what Balibar would call egaliberte. This means that the left should demand more globalization not less. Where neo-liberals speak the language of freedom – either </span>__in__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> terms of individual </span>__liberty__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">or the free movement of goods and capital – the left should use this language to combat today’s racist obsessions with </span>__‘economic refugees’, ‘immigrants’ and so on,__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and insist that </span>__freedoms are meaningless without the social resources to participate in those freedoms__<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>__Where there is talk of universal rights,____the left must affirm__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> a responsibility to the universal; one that emphasizes real human solidarity and does </span>__not lose sight of the abject within differential discourses__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Reversing the well-known environmentalists’ slogan, </span>__we__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> might say that the left has to involve itself in thinking locally and acting globally. That is to say, it should attend to the specificity of today’s political identities within the context of their global (capitalist) conditions of possibilities precisely in order to challenge those conditions. / Yet here I would venture that, despite clearly stated differences (Butler et al., 2000), the political perspective of Zizek is not necessarily opposed to that of Laclau and Mouffe and that a combined approach is fully possible. While </span>__Zizek is right to stress the susceptibility of today’s ‘alternative’__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> forms of hegemonic </span>__engagement to deradicalization within a postmodern-p.c. imaginary –____a__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> kind of </span>__hegemonization of the very__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> terrain (the politico-cultural </span>__conditions of possibility__<span style="font-size: 8px;">) </span>__that produce__<span style="font-size: 8px;">s and predisposes the </span>__contemporary logics of hegemony__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> – it is equally true to say that the type of political challenge that Zizek has in mind is one that can only advance through the type of hegemonic subversion that Laclau and Mouffe have consistently stressed in their work. The very possibility of a political universalism is one that depends on a certain hegemonic breaking out of the existing conventions/grammar of hegemonic engagement. / It is along these lines that Zizek affirms the need for a more radical intervention in the political imagination. The modern (Machiavellian) view of politics is usually presented in terms of a basic tension between (potentially) unlimited demands/appetites and limited resources; a view which is implicit in the predominant ‘risk society’ perspective where the central (almost Habermasian) concern is with more and better scientific information. The political truth of today’s world, however, is rather the opposite of this view. That is to say, the demands of the official left (especially the various incarnations of the Third Way left) tend to articulate extremely modest demands in the face of a virtually unlimited capitalism that is more than capable of providing every person on this planet with a civilized standard of living. For Zizek, a </span>__confrontation__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> with the obscenities of abundance capitalism also requires a transformation of the ethico-political imagination. It </span>__is no__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> longer a </span>__question of developing ethical guidelines within the existing__ __political framework__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (</span><span class="Underline">the</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> various institutional and corporate </span>‘ethical committees’<span style="font-size: 8px;">) </span>__but__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> of developing a politicization of ethics; </span>__an ethics of the Real__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. The starting point here is an insistence on the unconditional autonomy of the subject; of accepting that as human beings we are ultimately responsible for our actions and being-in-the-world up to and including the construction of the capitalist system itself. Far from simple norm-making or refining/reinforcing existing social protocol, an ethics of the Real tends to emerge through norm-breaking and in finding new directions that, by definition, involve traumatic changes: i.e. the Real in genuine ethical challenge. An ethics of the Real does not simply defer to the impossible (or infinite Otherness) as an unsurpassable horizon that already marks every act as a failure, incomplete and so on. Rather, such an ethics is one </span>__that____fully accepts contingency but__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> which </span>__is nonetheless prepared to risk the impossible__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> in the sense of breaking out of standardized positions. We might say that it is an ethics which is not only politically motivated but which also draws its strength from the political itself. / For Zizek an ethics of the Real (or Real ethics) means that </span>__we cannot rely____on any__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> form of </span>__symbolic Other that would endorse__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> our </span>__(in)decisions__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and (in)actions: for example, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the ‘neutral’ financial data of the</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> stockmarkets; the </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">expert knowledge of Beck’s</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> ‘new modernity’ scientists; </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the economic and military councils of the New World Order; the various (formal and</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> informal) tribunals of political correctness; or any of the mysterious laws of God, nature or the market. What Zizek affirms is a radical culture of ethical identification for the left in which the </span>__alternative forms__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> of militancy must first of all be militant with themselves. That is to say, they </span>__must be militant in the fundamental ethical sense of not relying on any external/higher authority__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and </span>__in__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> the development of </span>__a political imagination that__<span style="font-size: 8px;">, like Zizek’s own thought, </span>__exhorts us to risk the impossible__<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span></span>



3.) Vote negative to reject the justifications of the 1AC – only by shattering our reliance on external justification from authority can we restructure the coordinates of possibility to solve the aff

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__Zizek; 4__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">; Revolution at the Gates; P. 243-244</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">The supreme example here is, yet again, that of Antigone. </span>__From the__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">standpoint of the </span>__Hegelian position__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">mentioned above, </span>__Antigone__ __is to be unambiguously condemned: the "actual consequences of her act were cata­strophic; she was an ethical rigourist__ <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">if ever there was one, </span>__in contrast to her sister__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Ismene</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">’s </span>__tolerance and compromising attitude__ <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">- </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">is this what we want? The opposite of the rationality of the Real, or its closed circuit of Fate which gives us back our true message, is </span>__the act itself which intervenes in the very rational order of the Real, changing-restructuring its co-ordinates- an act is not irrational__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">; rather, </span>__it creates its own (new) rationality__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">. This is what Antigone accomplishes; this is the true consequence of her act. And </span>__this cannot be planned in advance- we have to take a risk, a step into the open, **with no big Other to return our true message to us**.____We do not yet know all the consequences, this event will have for the economy, ideology, politics, warfare, but one thing is certain: the USA__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">which, hitherto, perceived itself as an island exempt from this kind of violence, witnessing this kind of thing only from the safe distance of the TV screen - </span>__is now directly involved__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">So the alternative is: will the Americans decide to fortify their "sphere" further, or will they risk stepping out of it? Either America will persist in - even strengthen - the deeply //immoral// attitude of "Why should this happen to us? Things like this just don't happen //here",// leading to more aggressivity towards the threatening Outside</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">in short: to a paranoid acting-out. Or America will finally risk stepping through the fantasmatic screen separating it from the Outside World, accepting its arrival in the Real world, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">making the long-overdue move from "A thing like this shouldn't happen here!” to "A thing like this shouldn't happen anywhere!”. That is the true lesson of the attacks: the only way to ensure that it will not happen here again is to prevent it happening anywhere else. In short, America should learn humbly to accept its own vulnerability as part of this world, enacting the punishment of those responsible as a sad duty, not as an exhilarating retaliation.</span></span>

==<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2NC Shenanigans Cards</span>== 


Allows us to shrug individual responsibility for our actions onto compels us to act, that masks and naturalizes structural violence as a “glitch in the sound matrix” of our ethical structures making it inevitable – that’s Zizek and Daly

Only by radically breaking free of the justifications of the plan can we simultaneously break free from the power structures they criticize

**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zupancic 2K</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ethics of the Real</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; p. 82-85</span>



<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">We must point out, however, that infinite progress towards moral perfection is not Kant's only answer to what seems to be the inherent, structural impossibility of accomplishing a pure ethical act. In Kant's texts on morality it is possible to discern another line of argument which goes in the opposite direction, and is most ex</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">plicitly formulated in the following passage, which we have already quoted, from Religion Within the Limits of Reason Alone. But if a m an is to become not merely legally, but morally, a good man. . . this cannot be brought about through gradual reformation so long as the basis of the maxims remains impure , but must be effected through a revolution in the man's disposition . . . . He can become a new man only by a kind of rebirth, as it were a new creation" It is this second perspective that brings Kant's developments closest to Lacan's conception of an ethical act. Let us borrow here Slavoj Zizek's outline of this conception</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">The act differs from an 'action' in that it radically transforms its </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">bearer (</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">agent</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">). </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">After an act, I am 'not the same as before'. In the act, the subject is annihilated and subsequently reborn</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (or not); the act involves a kind of temporary eclipse of the subject.</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> The act is </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">therefore </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">always a</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> 'crime', a 'transgression'</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">- of the **limits of the symbolic community**</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to which I belong.5 </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">It is in relation to these features of an act that Lacan claims that suicide is the paradigm of every (‘successful') act</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Yet we must be very careful in our understanding of this statement, because </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">what is at stake is not simply the (voluntary) death of the subject</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">It might</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, therefore, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">be instructive to draw a distinction</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, with Kant's help, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">between two different logics of suicide. First there is the suicide that obeys the logic of sacrifice. **When duty calls, I sacrifice this or that** and, if necessary, even my life</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Here, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">we are dealing with the **logic of infinite 'purification'**, in which sacrificing my life is just 'another step' forward - only one among numerous 'objects' that have to be sacrificed</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The fact that it is a final step is mere coincidence; or, to put it in Kantian terms, it is an empirical, not a transcendental necessity. It is </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">this</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;"> logic</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">that governs Kant's postulate of the immortality of the soul, and </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">serves to preserve the consistency of the big Other</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. According to this logic, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">it is the subject who has to separate herself infinitely from everything that belongs to the register of the pathological</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. At the same time, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">(the position of) the big Other only gets stronger; its 'sadism' increases with every new sacrifice the subject makes, and it therefore demands more and more of the subject.</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> __We can point to examples from popular culture__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which seems to be more and more fascinated by this superegoic side of morality. Consider, for instance, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Terminator 2</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The Terminator first helps people to wipe off the face of the earth everything that could lead, in the future, to the invention of machines such as the Terminator (and thus to catastrophe, and the eruption of radical evil). In the end, the Terminator him/itself remains the only model that could serve to decipher all the necessary steps for the production of such cyborgs. He/it throws him-/itself in to a pool of white-hot iron in order to save the human race from catastrophe. The same type of suicide occurs in</span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Alien 3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Ripley first exterminates all aliens, only to find out in the end that the last one resides inside herself. In order to eliminate this last alien, she has to kill herself- she has to destroy the 'stranger' in herself, to cut off the last remains of the 'pathological' in herself.</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">The second type of suicide is less popular, for it **serves no cause, no purpose**. What is at stake is not that in the end we put on the altar of the Other our own life as the most we have to offer. The point is that we 'kill' ourselves through the Other, in the Other. We annihilate that which - in the Other, in the symbolic order - **gave our being** **identity, status, support and meaning**</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">This is the suicide to which Kant refers in the famous footnote from The Metaphysics of Morals in which he discusses regicide (</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the execution of Louis XVI</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">) . 'Regicide' is not really the right term, because what preoccupies Kant is precisely the difference between the murder of a monarch (regicide) and his formal execution. It is in relation to the latter that Kant says: </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">' it is as if the state commits suicide', and describes it in terms of what he elsewhere calls 'diabolical evil'. What we are dealing with is the difference between the ' king's two bodies'. Were the monarch simply killed, murdered, this would strike a blow only at his ' empirical body, whereas his ‘other body', incarnated in his symbolic mandate, would survive more or less unharmed</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Yet </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">his formal execution,</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> which Kant - in spite of, or even because of, his almost obsessive insistence on form - describes as outrageously useless, is </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">precisely what strikes a blow at the monarch's 'symbolic body', that is, the given symbolic order</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Why is it that for Kant this act of 'the people' has the structure of suicide? </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Because people are constituted as The People only in relation to this symbolic order. Outside it, they are nothing more than 'masses' with no proper status. It i s the monarch </span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(in his symbolic function) </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">who gives people their symbolic existence, be it ever so miserable</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. A very audible undertone of Kant's argument thus implicitly poses this question: if the French people were so dissatisfied with their monarch, why didn't they simply kill him; why did they have to perform a formal execution, and thus shake the very ground beneath their fee t (that is, 'commit suicide')?</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND – this fulfills a distinct societal need. Everyone proposes plans, not enough people think critically.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ingolfur </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bluhdorn</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, European Politics – Bath, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">2K</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(__Post-Ecologist Politics__, p. 202-3)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__With regard to the demand for concrete political prescriptions__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, it might be pointed out once again that </span>__it is wrong to assume that society in any way depends on such prescriptions__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__Well-meaning__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> social and political </span>__theorists__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> tend to </span>__overestimate their societal importance__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Whilst their recommendations have (perhaps fortunately) in most cases been ignored, </span>__societal development has__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> so far </span>__never__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> come to a halt, or </span>__reached a point where it could not continue without__ __taking advice from political theorists__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Factually, </span>__there has never been a normative vacuum. Action__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and development </span>__have always taken place__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, everywhere and under all circumstances. Against this background </span>__it seems__ __perfectly legitimate to interrupt the constant flow of concrete political prescriptions and__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> lean back for a while in order to </span>__observe and theorise__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Whilst observation and interpretation can certainly not be a substitute for concrete policy making, it is equally impossible for the latter to substitute for the former. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND – their policy education isn’t portable</span>**</span>
**__Browne ‘95__**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 9.33333px; text-align: justify;">(Harry, Former libertarian party candidate for President and Director of Public Policy for the DownsizeDC.org, "Why Government Doesn't Work", p. 27)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__You don't control the government____.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> And </span>__your dreams of what government can achieve__ __are just that—dreams.__**__They bear no resemblance to what government will really do if your program is enacted.__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> No one can control the government. Most people who tug at it end up disappointed—even if, for a while, they seem to be succeeding. If government, the agency of coercion, is a tool that can achieve your worthy ends, why shouldn't other people see it as the tool to achieve their purposes—including people who are thieves, bigots, politicians, mass murderers, bureaucrats, and judges? </span>//__If government is going to do someone's bidding__////__, is it likely to be your bidding—or that of people far more determined, far wealthier, and far more influential than you are?__//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The government that's strong enough to give you what you want by taking it from someone else is strong enough to take everything you have and give it to someone else. The government you want to suppress your enemies can be used as easily by your enemies to attack you.</span></span>

Only destructive ethical insistence changes coordinates of possibility – __any net benefit holds us back__
Zizek 4
(Slavoj Zizek, Senior Researcher, Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, __Organs Without Bodies__, p. 203-5)
A revolutionary process is not a well-planned strategic activity with no place in it for a full immersion into the Now without regard to long-term consequences. Quite the contrary: the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">suspension of all strategic consid­erations based on hope for a better future</span>, the stance of on attaque, et puis, on Ie verra (Lenin often referred to this slogan of Napoleon), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is a key part of any revolutionary process</span>. Recall the staged performance of «Storming the Winter Palace" in Petrograd on the third anniversary of the October Revolution (November 7) 1920).25 Thousands of workers, soldiers, students, and artists worked round the clock, living on kasha (tasteless wheat porridge), tea, and frozen apples, preparing the perfor­mance at the very place where the event "really took place" three years earlier. Their work was coordinated by army officers as well as by avant­garde artists, musicians, and directors) from Malevich to Meyerhold. Although this was acting and not "reality;' the soldiers and sailors were playing themselves-many of them not only actually participated in the event of 1917 but were also simultaneously involved in the real battles of the Civil War that were raging in the nearby vicinity of Petrograd, a city under siege and suffering from severe shortages of food. A contempo­rary commented on the performance: «The future historian will record how, throughout one of the bloodiest and most brutal revolutions, all of Russia was acting."26 And the formalist theoretician Viktor Shklovski noted that «some kind of elemental process is taking place where the living fabric of life is being transformed into the theatricaL"27 We all remember the infamous, self-celebratory First of May parades that were one of the supreme signs of recognition of the Stalinist regimes. If one needs proof of how Leninism functioned in an entirely different way, are such performances not the supreme proof that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the October Revolution was definitely not a simple coup d) etat by the small group of Bolsheviks but an event that unleashed a tremendous emancipatory potential?</span> Does the "Storming of the Winter Palace" staging not display the force of a sacred (pagan?) pageant, of the magic, let of founding a new community? It is here that Heidegger should look when he wrote about founding a state as the event of truth (and not to the Nazi rituals); <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is</span>, perhaps, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">here that</span> there <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">occurred the</span> only meaningful <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"return of the sacred."</span> In short, it is here that, perhaps, one should look for the realization of Wagner's Gesamtkunstwerk, of what he aimed at with the designation of his Parsi­fal as Buhnenweihfestspiel (sacred festival drama): if ever, then, it was in Petrograd of 1919, much more than in ancient Greece, that, «in intimate connection with its history, the people itself that stood facing itself in the work of art, becoming conscious of itself, and, in the space of a few hours, rapturously devouring, as it were, its own essence." <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This aestheticization, in which the people quite literally "plays itself," certainly does not fall under Benjamin's indictment of the Fascist aestheticization of the po­litical." Instead of abandoning this aestheticization to the political Right, instead of a blanket dismissal of every mass political spectacle as proto­Fascist," one should perceive, in this minimal, purely formal, difference of the people from itself, the unique case of «real life" differentiated from art by nothing more than an invisible, formal gap. </span>The very fact that, in historical documentaries, movie shots from this reconstruction (as well as from Eisenstein's 1927 October) of the storming of the Winter Palace are often presented as documentary shots is to be taken as an indication of this deeper identity of people playing themselves. The archetypal Eisensteinian cinematic scene rendering the exuber­ant orgy of revolutionary destructive violence (what Eisenstein himself called «a veritable bacchanalia of destruction") belongs to the same se­ries. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">When</span>, in October, the victorious <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">revolutionaries penetrate the wine cellars of the Winter Palace, they indulge in</span> the ecstatic orgy of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">smashing thousands of</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">expensive wine bottles</span>.<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> In Bezhin Meadow, the village Pioneers force their way into the local church and desecrate it</span>, robbing it of its relics, squabbling over an icon, sacrilegiously trying on vestments, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">heretically laughing</span> at the statuary.<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> In this suspension of goal-oriented instrumental activity, we effectively get a kind of Bataillean "unrestrained expenditure</span>"-<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the pious desire to deprive the revolution of this excess is simply the desire to have a revolution without revolution</span>. However, this “unrestrained expenditure" is not enough. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In a revolution proper, such a display</span> of what Hegel would have called "'lhslraclncgalivily" merely, as it were, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">wipes the slate clean</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It is wrong to oppose strategic political acts</span>, as risky as they might be, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to radical</span> (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">suicidal</span>) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">gestures a la Antigone</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">gestures of pure self-destructive ethical insistence with, apparently, no political goal</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The point is not simply that, once we are thoroughly engaged in a political project</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we are ready to risk everything for it</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">inclusive of our lives</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">but</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">more precisely, that onlysuch an impossible gesture of pure expenditure can change the very coordinates of what is strategically possible within a historical constellation</span>. Another expression of this excess is an unexpected feature of all outbursts of revolt. Several years ago, there was a rebellion of Cuban refugees detained at the Guantanamo base. Its direct cause was that one group of refugees received lower quality orange juice than another group. The very trifling character of what triggered the violent uprising is indicative: not a big injustice or large-scale suffering but a minimal, ridiculous difference, especially for people who just came from Cuba, a country with severe food shortages. Does this not make it clear that the cause immediately triggering a rebellion is, by definition, trifling, a pseudo cause signaling that what is at stake is the relationship to the Other?

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The path to solvency is irrelevant. Voting negative is an immediate index of its own truth.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Slavoj </span>**__Zizek__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, Senior Researcher, Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, 200</span>**__4__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, Revolution at the Gates, p. 259-60</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">As Deleuze saw very clearly, </span>__we cannot provide in advance an unambiguous criterion which will allow us to distinguish "false" violent outburst from the "miracle" of the authentic revolutionary breakthrough.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The ambiguity is irreducible here, since the "miracle" can occur only through the repetition of previous failures. And this is also why violence is a necessary ingredient of a revolutionary political act. That is to say: </span>__what is the criterion of a political act proper? Success as such clearly does not count__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">even if we define it in the dialectical terms of Merleau-Ponty: as the wager that the future will retroactively redeem our present horrible acts (this is how Merleau-Ponty, in Humanism and Terror, provided one of the more intelligent justifications of the Stalinist terror: retroactively, it will become justified if its final outcome is true freedom);129 </span>__neither does reference to some abstract-universal ethical norm. The__**__only__**__criterion is the absolutely inherent one: **that of the enacted utopia**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In a genuine revolutionary breakthrough, the utopian future is neither simply fully realized, present, nor simply evoked as a distant promise which justifies present violence – </span>__it is rather as if in a unique suspension of temporality, in the short circuit between the present and the future, we are__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – as if by Grace – </span>__briefly allowed to act as if the utopian future is (not yet fully here, but) already at hand__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, there to be seized. Revolution is experienced not as a present hardship we have to endure for the sake of the happiness and freedom of future generations, but as the present hardship over which this future happiness and freedom already cast their shadow – in it, </span>__we are already free even as we fight for freedom; we are already happy even as we fight for happiness,__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> no matter how difficult the circumstances. Revolution is not a Merleau-Pontyan wager, an act suspended in the futur anterieur, to be legitimized or de-legitimized by the long-term outcome of present acts; </span>**__it is__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">as it were,</span>**__its own ontological proof, an immediate index of its own truth__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>
/Shatters coordinates of possibility
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Zupancic 2k</span>Ethics of the Real; p. 57-58

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">We might thus ask whether, in the particular case 'imputed' to Kant by Constant, one is really - according to the principles of Kantian ethics - obliged to tell the (potential) murderer the truth. This question arises especially since the example is so 'contrived'- it is not clear why the subject could not simply reply to the murderer: 'I refuse to tell you'. __<span style="font-size: 16px;">Another example</span>__might __<span style="font-size: 16px;">better express the ethical issue at stake here</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">, __as well as__ </span>allow us to outline **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the framework of the 'ethics of desire' –</span>__**the example Lacan introduces in his seminar The Ethics of Psychoanalysis: **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Antigone.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> __Antigone stops at nothing in order to__ </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">c</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">ar</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">ry out</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">her </span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">intention of burying her brother</span>__Polynices . __<span style="font-size: 16px;">In her persistence she is not guided by any 'good': neither her own</span>__(the only 'good' awaiting her is burial alive), __<span style="font-size: 16px;">nor the good of the community</span>__represented by Creon (the consequence of Antigone's act is the ruin of the community, the fall of the kingdom). __<span style="font-size: 16px;">Her starting point is an unconditional 'must' - Polynices must be buried.</span>__At any number of points in the drama, Antigone could have stopped and asked herself: 'Is it really worth it? '' Is it worth insisting on doing this, given the circumstances? 'In this case, of course, there would be no Antigone. To be sure, __<span style="font-size: 16px;">there will always be someone willing to defend the point of view that Antigone would have acted even more ethically had she renounced her quest to bury her brother and saved the kingdom</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">. </span>This kind of ethics, however, does not enter the perspective opened by __<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kant</span>__, nor the one __<span style="font-size: 16px;">discussed by Lacan</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">, </span>for they __<span style="font-size: 16px;">both</span>__reaffirm ethics in a perspective which is far from comfortable. They __<span style="font-size: 16px;">situate the ethical act in a dimension which is **neither the dimension of the law** (in the usual, sociojuridical sense of the word) **nor** </span>__the dimension of a simple **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">transgression of the law</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> (Antigone is not an activist, fighting for 'human rights' that are being trampled down by a tyrannical state),</span>__17 **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">but</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **that of the Real**</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 16px; text-align: justify;">Bartleby K</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">We always knew all critiques were lies – capitalism, statism, and imperialism never //really// disappeared when you voted a team up. Planless affs, performative advocacies, and even critiquing debate is accepted, even expected and prepped for, within debate.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">You can’t escape commodification. This round can’t change anything – whoever wins, people will take cites, prep for it, maybe even think about it, but what they won’t do is believe it.</span>


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mann ‘95</span>

(Paul Mann, Professor of English @ Pomona College, 1995, “Stupid Undergrounds,” Project Muse)


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">[8] One might find it amusing to assume the pose of someone who states problems with brutal simplicity. As in this little nugget: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Every historical form of cultural and political revolt, transgression, opposition, and escape has turned out to be nothing more than a systemic function.</span> The notion of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">recuperation has encountered a thousand alibis and counter-tropes but still constitutes the closest thing cultural study hasto a natural law.</span> Collage, antimelodic high-decibel music, antimasterpieces, romantic primitivism, drunkenness and drugs, renegade sexuality, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">criticism itself: it is amazing that a single radical claim can still be made for any of this, and entirely characteristic that it is. Everyconceivable form of negation has been dialectically coordinated into the mechanism of progress.</span> The future of the anti has not yet been reconceived. That is why it is ridiculous to accuse some poor kid with a bad attitude or some putative grownup with a critique but no "positive program for change" of being nihilistic: strictly speaking, nihilism doesn't exist. What was once called nihilism has long since revealed itself as a general, integral function of a culture that, in all its glorious positivism, is far more destructive than the most vehement no. Nothing could be more destructive, more cancerous, than the positive proliferation of civilization (now there's a critical cliche), and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">all</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">forms of opposition have long since revealed themselves as means of advancing it. As for the ethos of "resistance": justbecause something feels like resistance and still manages to offend a few people (usually not even the right people) hardly makes it effective.</span> It is merely "ressentiment" in one or another ideological drag. And how can anyone still be deluded by youth, by its tedious shrugs of revolt? //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Even</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the young no longer believe their myth</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, although they are quite willing to promote it when convenient.</span> Punk nihilism was never more than the nihilism of the commodity itself. You should not credit Malcolm McLaren with having realized this just because he was once pro-situ. All he wanted was to sell more trousers without boring himself to death; indeed he is proof that the guy with <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the flashiest "ressentiment" sells the most rags.</span> And if he wasn't bored, can he be said to have advanced the same favor to us? / [9] It would seem ridiculous to sentence oneself to yet another term of "ressentiment"; bad enough to risk promoting it by the very act of considering it. Perhaps only a masocritic would subject himself to the humiliation of doing so. And yet in the stupid underground the logics of recuperation and "ressentiment" are turned, so to speak, on their heads. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Everyone there knows all about recuperation and it makes no difference.</span> One can display the most stringent self-criticism about the impossibility of revolt and the next day proclaim the subversive effects of noise, as if one were Russolo himself, Russolo in the first place. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The stupid underground is marked by the simultaneous critical understanding of the fatality of recuperation and a general indifference to the fact; it ignores what it knows, and knows it.</span> It acts as though it forgets, until it virtually forgets, what it always recalls. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It responds to every critical reminder, even those it throws at itself, with a //"So what, fuck you."//</span> But this very feigned stupidity, this posture of indifference to its own persistent critical knowledge, is the trace of another trajectory. For if the euphoria of punk nihilism is entirely the nihilism of the commodity, by this same means, at certain unpredictable moments, it represents the possibility of nihilism turned loose, driven suicidally mad, "ressentiment" pushed to the brink of the reactive and becoming force. Inane energy, brute energy, energy without reason, without support, even when it is caught up in what otherwise poses as a critical project. This is not to say that the euphoric frenzy of the punk or skinhead is the sign of something new and vital: the energy released by the stupid underground is never anything more than an effect of its very morbidity. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It is marketed as novelty, but that is not its truth. Nor will it ever constitute a base for opposition: it cannot be yoked to any program of reform, nor serve any longer the heroic myth of transgression. It is merely a symptom of order itself.</span> Everything has been recuperated, but what is recuperated and put to death returns, returns ferociously, and it is the return of its most immanent dead that most threatens every form of order. The repressed does not come back as a living being but as the ghost it always was, and not to free us but to haunt us. It returns as repetition; <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">when we see it in the mirror, as our mirror, we pretend not to recognize it.</span> The fury of the punk or skinhead is the fury of this stupid repetition, and it is far more destructive than the most brilliant modernist invention. It ruins everything and leaves it all still in place, still functioning as if it mattered, never relieving us of its apparition, never pretending to go beyond it, draining it of value without clearing it away. That is why one cannot dismiss it according to the logic of the new, whereby the only admissible revolutionary force must conform to the movement of progress and innovation. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The rhetoric of innovation is parroted by the stupid underground, because it still obeys the superficial form of the avant-garde.</span> But it obeys it long after it is dead, and as if that death didn't matter, as if history had never occurred in the first place, as if everything retro just suddenly appeared, in all its original vacuity. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As if it were even better, more powerful, once it is dead, so long as one insists that it is and pretends that it isn't. It is the blind repetition of every exhausted logicfar past the point of termination that generates the most virulent negation.</span> <span class="Cite">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The stupid persistence of the dead has taken the place of the critical.</span>//</span></span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Even they know this truth, which is why they don’t give speeches, lobby individuals, and act all serious outside of rounds. They hang out with friends, because they’re just debaters like the rest of us. They might really care, like the heg debater really thinks heg is good, but they’re still playing the game, and that means their arg is still a commodified K like any other on the circuit.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">This is a 100% solvency takeout.</span>


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mann ‘95</span>

(Paul Mann, Professor of English @ Pomona College, 1995, “Stupid Undergrounds,” Project Muse)


[36] <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Intellectual economics guarantees that even the most powerful</span> and challenging <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">work cannot protect itself from</span> the order of fashion. Becoming-fashion, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">becoming-commodity, becoming-ruin.</span> Such instant, indeed retroactive ruins, are the virtual landscape of the stupid underground. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The</span> exits and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">lines of flight</span> pursued by Deleuze and Guattari <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are</span> being <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">shut down</span> and rerouted <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by the very people who</span> would <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">take them most seriously.</span> By now, any given work from the stupid underground's critical apparatus is liable to be tricked out with smooth spaces, war-machines, n - 1s, planes of consistency, plateaus and deterritorializations, strewn about like tattoos on the stupid body without organs. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The nomad</span> is already succumbing to the rousseauism and orientalism that were always invested in his figure; whatever Deleuze and Guattari intended for him, he <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is reduced to being a romantic outlaw,</span> to a position <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">opposite the State, in the sort of dialectical operation Deleuze most despised.</span> And the rhizome is becoming just another stupid subterranean figure. It is perhaps true that Deleuze and Guattari did not adequately protect their thought from this dialectical reconfiguration (one is reminded of Breton's indictment against Rimbaud for not having prevented, in advance, Claudel's recuperation of him as a proper Catholic), but no vigilance would have sufficed in any case. The work of Deleuze and Guattari is evidence that, in real time, virtual models and maps close off the very exits they indicate. The problem is in part that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">rhizomes, lines of flight, smooth spaces, BwOs, etc., are at one and thesame time theoretical</span>-political <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">devices of the highest</span> critical <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">order and merely fantasmatic, delirious, narcissistic models for writing</span>, and thus perhaps an instance of the all-too-proper blurring of the distinction between criticism and fantasy. In Deleuze-speak, the stupid underground would be mapped not as a margin surrounding a fixed point, not as a fixed site determined strictly by its relation or opposition to some more or less hegemonic formation, but as an intensive, n-dimensional intersection of rhizomatic plateaus. Nomadology and rhizomatics conceive such a "space" (if one only had the proverbial nickel for every time that word is used as a critical metaphor, without the slightest reflection on what might be involved in rendering the conceptual in spatial terms) as a liquid, colloidal suspension, often retrievable by one or another techno-metaphorical zoning (e.g., "cyberspace"). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">What is at stake</span>, however, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is</span> not only the topological verisimilitude of the model but <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the</span> *fantastic* <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">possibility ofnonlinear passage, of</span> multiple simultaneous accesses and exits, of infinite fractal <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">lines occupying finite social space.</span> In the strictest sense, stupid philosophy. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nomad thought is prosthetic,</span> the experience of virtual exhilaration in modalities <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">already mapped and dominated by nomad, rhizomatic capital</span> (the political philosophy of the stupid underground: capital is more radical than any of its critiques, but one can always pretend otherwise). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It is this very fantasy,</span><span class="CardCite1">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">this very narcissistic wish to see oneself projected past the frontier into new spaces,</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that abandons one to this economy, that seals these spaces within an order of critical fantasy that has long since been overdeveloped, entirely reterritorialized in advance.To pursue nomadology or rhizomatics as such is already to have lost the game.</span><span class="CardCite1">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nothing is more crucial to philosophy than escaping the dialectic</span>//</span> and no project is more hopeless; the stupid-critical underground is the curved space in which this opposition turns back on itself.


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Commodifying critique in debate isn’t just useless, it’s harmful. Of course they make it visible, but teams write blocks and cut strats to beat their aff, not to cooperate in changing the community. Because it’s a debate and we have to give a 1NC, we are __literally incapable__ of agreeing with them. They actively trade-off with productive public non-competitive discourse outside of rounds.</span>


If their arg is really true, voting neg is the only way to get there.


<span class="Cite">Atchison and Panetta ‘9</span>

(Jarrod Atchison, Director of Debate @ Trinity University, and Edward Panetta, Director of Debate @ the University of Georgia, __Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future__, p. 317-34)


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The larger problem with <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">locating</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“debate as activism”</span> perspective <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">within the competitive framework</span> is that it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">overlooks the</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">communal</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nature</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">of the community problem. If each</span> individual <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">debate is a decision about</span> how <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the debate community</span> should approach a problem, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">then</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">losing debaters become collateral damage in the activist strategy dedicated toward</span> creating <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">community change.</span> One frustrating example of this type of argument might include a judge voting for an activist team in an effort to help them reach elimination rounds to generate a community discussion about the problem. Under this scenario, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the losing team serves as a sacrificial lamb on the altar of community change.</span> Downplaying the important role of competition and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">treating opponents as scapegoats for the failures of the community</span> <span class="Cite">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">may increase the profile of the</span>//</span> winning <span class="Cite">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">team</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span>//</span> the <span class="Cite">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">community problem</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,but</span> it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">does little to generate the</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">critical coalitions</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> necessary to address the community problem,</span> b<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ecause the competitive focus</span> //**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">encourages teams to concentrate on how to beat the strategy with little regard for</span>**// addressing //**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the</span>**// community //**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">problem.</span>**// There is no role for competition when a judge decides that it is important to accentuate the publicity of a community problem. An extreme example might include a team arguing that their opponents’ academic institution had a legacy of civil rights abuses and that the judge should not vote for them because that would be a community endorsement of a problematic institution. This scenario is a bit more outlandish but not unreasonable if one assumes that each debate should be about what is best for promoting solutions to diversity problems in the debate community. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">If the debate community is serious about</span> generating <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">community change,</span> then <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is morelikely to occur outside a</span> traditional <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">competitive debate. When a team loses a debate because the judge decides</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is better for the community for the other team to win,</span> then <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they have sacrificed two potential advocates for change within the community. Creating change through wins generates backlash through losses.Some proponents are comfortable with generating backlash and argue that the reaction is evidence that the issue is being discussed.</span> / From our perspective, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the discussionthat results from these hostile situations</span><span class="Cite">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is not a productive one</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">where participants seek</span> to work together for <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a common goal.</span> Instead of giving up on hope for change and agitating for wins regardless of who is left behind, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it seems more reasonable</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the debate community should trythe</span> method of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">public argument</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we teach in</span> an <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">effort to generate</span> a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">discussion of necessary community changes. Simply put,</span> debate <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">competitions do not represent the best environment for community change because it is a competition for a win andonly one team can win any given debate</span>,<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">whereasaddressing systemic century-long community problems requires a tremendous effort by a great number of people.</span></span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">“Vote neg to prefer not to...” The 1AC is a false choice between policing black bodies and an aff ballot. Our preference escapes commodification because it isn’t a real //argument// – it’s literally just a preference. This is the only way to confront the fantasies of change through ballots and 2ARs that prevent real community change outside of debate rounds.</span>


Jodi <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Dean</span>, prof of political theory @ Hobart and William Smith Colleges, 200<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">7</span>, “The Object Next Door,” http://ptx.sagepub.com/content/35/3/371.full.pdf


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Before closing, I mention one additional parallax likely to interest political theorists, namely, what Zˇ izˇek refers to as Bartleby parallax. Near the end of the book, Zˇ izˇek presents Herman Melville’s Bartleby the Scrivener as the key figure of a new politics. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Based in Bartleby’s response “I would prefer not to,” this politicsmoves past a politics of protest that remains dependent on what it resists and instead tries to open a “new space outside the hegemonic position and its negation”</span> (p. 381). For Zˇ izˇek, Bartleby’s words are properly parallactic: they mark a void, a gap that separates what is negated from the place it occupies. Differently put, the refusal here is purely formal, the form of refusal as such. What is maddening—perhaps because it is right—is Zˇ izˇek’s claim that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the withdrawalBartleby figures is primarily a withdrawal from resistance and from charity; it is a withdrawal from the whole variety of micropolitical practices that many of us on the Left engage in as a way of confronting injustice.</span> Instead of appealing to coalitions and organized resistance, then, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Zˇ izˇek offers a figure of unbearable, inert, insistent, immobile</span> violence, a kind of maddening, stubborn <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">object thatdisrupts</span><span class="Cite">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by refusing to do anything at all—even openly refuse!</span>//</span> Might Zˇ izˇek’s be right? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">If we accept Foucauldian accounts of resistance’s complicity in and dependence on power,</span> if we recognize with Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri how calling for interventions on behalf of human rights brings Empire into being, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and if weface up to the way that our words circulate continuously and ineffectively to reinforce the basic components</span> of communicative capitalism, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">then Bartleby’s withdrawal may </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">produce a confrontation with the fantasies</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> that bind us into particular political arrangements.</span> This position isn’t reassuring (but psychoanalysis has never promised to reassure), but <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it may well provoke us to focus less on what we should do as political agents and more on what we must do as political objects,that is, as those who are installed in systems not of our making, but systems we can disturb</span>, stall, and bring down <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nonetheless.</span></span>



This hides the argument from lashout. Voting neg shields it in debate’s fog of war, allowing it to escape aggressive backlash.


Paul <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mann</span>, Ph.D., B.A., M.A.; Professor of English, Pomona College, 19<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">99</span>, __Masocriticism__, p. 117-22


War is sublime.31 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The theory-war</span> in Clausewitz's text, the war <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">between knowledge and everything proper to it that surpasses and destroys it, signals the way war takes its place</span> beside tragedy <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as a sublime for philosophy, theory, and critical studies.</span> The sublime of war study is one of theory's recuperated figures of its own imaginary abyss, an abyss in which it seeks its deepest reflection. Whatever the truth of war, what <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we witness</span> here first of all is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">thought's fascination with</span> an imaginary and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a</span> quite compelling <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">depth projected out of an obscure "drive" for its own "death."</span> If the self-destruction of the family in classical tragedy is an interior form of this paper abyss, the contemplation of warfare serves as one of its public forms, as the sublime for a political criticism, already scaled down from the recent, imaginary apocalypses of nuclear criticism.32 "The issue," Rose writes, seems to be not so much what might be the truth of war, but the relationship of war to the category of truth. . . . Friction, dissolution, fluidity . . . surface in defiance of a resistant totalization.... In Clausewitz's text, war seems to figure as the violent repressed of its own rationalization. It becomes, so to speak, the unconscious of itself,. .. an intruder or foreign body that fastens and destroys. It is the perfect image of the alien-ness that Freud places at the heart of human subjectivity, the alien-ness whose denial or projection leads us into war. In Clausewitz's text, the theorization of war seems finally to be taken over by its object. The attempt to theorize or master war, to subordinate it to absolute knowledge, becomes a way of perpetuating or repeating war itself. (Rose 1993, 23-24) / Under the aegis of a critique of war technology, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">critical discourse becomes a machine that</span> both rationalizes the contests of thought and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">surpasses rational control. The end of</span> this conflict, of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">intellectual warfare as such</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is a terminal image of reason's self-destruction</span>, of the Endlightenment, an ideal we will fight to the death to fall short of. Hard critical knowledge will no more lead us past this end than knowledge of war leads humanity past armed conflict. / Chaos / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Consider</span> what Clausewitz calls <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the fog of war—its un-theorizable turmoil</span>, error, accidents, chance, the sheer disorientation of combat terror. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The fog of war is quite literally noise</span>, war's resistance to language, to objectification, to the code: both its problematic and its seductiveness, the limit of its intelligibility and the depth of its sublimity. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There are two approaches to this fog. One can try to burn it off with the bright intensity of analysis,</span> as if it were only a surface effect, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">even though everything would leadone to believe</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fog is an irreducible element of war, something that must be</span> taken into account, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">accepted as such, something that cannot simply be withdrawn. Then perhaps one must instead attempt</span> to map this fog, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">not</span> to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">eliminate it but</span> to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">put it to use.</span> The fog of war might be more than an enemy of reason, it might be a tactical advantage. / But how to map the fog of war? I anticipate an increase in references to chaos theory, discourse analyses deploying language like the following: Military interest in turbulent phenomena revolves around the question of its negative effects in the performance of weapons systems or the effects of air drag on projectiles or water drag on submarines. But for our purposes, we want an image not of the external effects of turbulent flows, but of their internal structure. We are not concerned here with the destructive effects that a hurricane, for instance, may produce, but with the intricate patterns of eddies and vortices that define its inner structure.... In order to better understand turbulence, we must first rid ourselves of the idea that turbulent behavior represents a form of chaos. / For a long time turbulence was identified with disorder or noise. Today we know that this is not the case. Indeed, while turbulent motion appears as irregular or chaotic on the macroscopic scale, it is, on the contrary, highly organized on the microscopic scale. The multiple space and time scales involved in turbulence correspond to the coherent behavior of millions and millions of molecules. Viewed in this way, the transition from laminar flow to turbulence is a process of self-organization.33 / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It remains to be seen</span> whether and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to what extent the turbulence of intellectual warfare obeys the theoretical laws of chaos.</span> Perhaps it will become possible to map the way epis-temic breakthroughs stabilize themselves as singularities and fractal "eddies within eddies" (De Landa 1991), increasingly dense, detailed, and localized skirmishes in en-tropic disciplinary subfields. I imagine that the effect would be at one and the same time to deepen the breakthrough, by intensifying subconflictual areas within the field, and to dissipate it. Again, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">resistance, subversion, opposition, and so on stabilize quite as much as they destabilize.</span> The deepening specificity of gender criticism, for instance, might represent the regulation of gender conflict as much as its disruptive potential: its increasing density becomes the paradoxical mark of its dissipating force. It is just as likely, however, that attempts to apply chaos physics within analyses of discursive warfare will constitute nothing more than another set of tropes, another pipe dream of a scientific humanities, another mathematical sublime: the same contradictory desire for the rational conquest of phenomena that seems to escape reason and the autodestruction of reason in the process that one finds in Clausewitz. / <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Even if fog cannot be reduced to a science without being caught up in the mechanics of critical sublimity, one might still pursue its tactical uses.</span> There is no question that the military is committed to deploying the fog of war. The importance of disinformation, propaganda, jamming, covert operations, "PsyOps," and so on increases as warfare becomes more dependent on technical and tactical knowledge. As the power of reconnaissance and surveillance grows, so does the tactical importance of stealth technology. Virilio remarks that, in the hunt, the speed of perception annuls the distance between the hunter and the quarry. Survival depends on distance. "Once you can see the target, you can destroy it" (Virilio 1989,19, 4). Thus, from now on, "Power is in disappearance: under the sea with nuclear submarines, in the air with U2s, spyplanes, or still higher with satellites and the space shuttle" (Virilio and Lotringer 1983, 146). "If what is perceived is already lost, it becomes necessary to invest in concealment what used to be invested in simple exploitation of one's available forces—hence the spontaneous / generation of new Stealth weapons / The inversion of the deterrence principle is quite clear: unlike weapons which have to be publicized if they are to have a real deterrence effect, Stealth equipment can only function if its existence is clouded with uncertainty" (Virilio 1989, 4). For Virilio, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">stealth</span> is not a matter of radar-immune bombers alone: it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">involves a</span> vast <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"aesthetics of disappearance"</span> that reaches an order of perfection in state terrorism. / Until the Second World War—until the concentration camps—societies were societies of incarceration, of imprisonment in the Foucauldian sense. The great transparency of the world, whether through satellites or simply tourists, brought about an overexposure of these places to observation, to the press and public opinion which now ban concentration camps. You can't isolate anything in this world of ubiquity and instantaneousness. Even if some camps still exist, this overexposure of the world led to the need to surpass enclosure and imprisonment. This required another kind of repression, which is disappearance. . . . Bodies must disappear. People don't exist. There is a big fortune in this technology because it's so similar to what happened in the history of war. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In war, we've seen how important disappearance, camouflage, dissimulation are—every war is a war of cunning.</span>34 / The methods of strategic disappearance developed by terrorist states are the most insidious form of secrecy. That is why Virilio, the antitechnologist, believes that the technology of secrecy must be exposed. Every order of stealth weaponry is purely and simply a threat. The aesthetics of disappearance must be reappeared. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">For Virilio,</span> as well as for the reconnaissance cameras whose history he records, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">success depends on</span> the logistics of perception, on <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">closing the distance between the critic and his quarry.</span> <span class="CardCite1">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But what if critics are not only hunters; what if they are the quarry as well?</span>//</span> / Michel de Certeau points out that, for Clausewitz, the distinction between strategy and tactics is determined not only by scales of conflict (war vs. battle) but by relative magnitudes of power. Strategy is for the strong, and it is deployed in known, visible, mapped spaces; <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">tactics is "an art of the weak," of those who must operate inside territory controlled by agreater power; it takes place on the ground of the "other,"</span> inside alien space.35 <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It must therefore deploy deception in the face of a power "bound by its very visibility." De Certeau suggests that even in cases where the weak force has already beensighted, it might use deception to great advantage.</span> This is another lesson from Clausewitz. "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Trickery is possible for the weak, andoften it is his only possibility, as a last resort':</span> "The weaker the forces at the disposition of the strategist, the more the strategist will be able to use deception.'" <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In the "practice of daily life," in spaces of signification,in the contests of critical argument, such a tactics of the weak would also apply.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2NC Bartleby K cards</span>== 


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">community discourse is the only way to solve, because it’s not structurally antagonistic like a debate round and reaches more than five people in a room. That’s also Atchison and Panetta.</span>



<span class="Cite">Zizek ‘6</span>

(Slavoj Zizek, senior researcher @ the Institute of Sociology, University of Ljubljana; professor @ the European Graduate School, 2006, __The Parallax View__, p. 381-5)


And this brings us back to Melville’s Bartleby. His <span class="Underline">“I would prefer not to” is to be taken literally:</span> it says “I would prefer not to,” not “I don’t prefer (or care) to”—so we are back at Kant’s distinction between negative and inﬁnite judgment. In his refusal of the Master’s order, <span class="Underline">Bartleby does not negate the predicate; rather, he a</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬃ</span><span class="Underline">rms a non- predicate: he does not say that he doesn’t want to do it; he says that he prefers (wants) not to do it.</span> 82 This is how <span class="Underline">we pass from</span> the politics of “<span class="Underline">resistance”or “protestation,”which para- sitizes upon what it negates, to a politics which opens up a new space outside the 381hegemonic position and its negation.</span> We can imagine the varieties of such a gesture in today’s public space:not only the obvious “There are great chances of a new career here! Join us!”—“I would prefer not to”;but also “Discover the depths of your true self,ﬁnd inner peace!”—“I would prefer not to”; or “Are you aware how our environment is endangered? Do something for ecology!”—“I would prefer not to”; or <span class="Cite">“What about all the racial</span> and sexual <span class="Cite">injustices</span> that we witness all <span class="Cite">around us? Isn’t it time to do more?”—“I would prefer not to.”</span> This is the gesture of subtraction at its purest, the reduction of all qualitative di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>erences to a purely formal minimal di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>erence. Are we not making the same point here as Hardt and Negri in Empire, who also refer to Bartleby as the ﬁgure of resistance, of saying No! to the existing universe of social machinery?83 The di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>erence is double. First, for HN, Bartleby’s “I would prefer not to” is interpreted as merely the ﬁrst move of, as it were, clearing the table, of acquiring a distance toward the existing social universe;what is then needed is a move toward the painstaking work of constructing a new community—if we remain stuck at the Bartleby stage, we end up in a suicidal marginal position with no consequences.... From our point of view, however, this, precisely, is the conclusion to be avoided: in its political mode, Bartleby’s “I would prefer not to” is not the starting point of “abstract negation”which should then be overcome in the patient positive work of the “deter- minate negation” of the existing social universe, 84 but a kind of arche, the underlying principle that sustains the entire movement: <span class="Underline">far from “overcoming” it, the subsequent work of construction, rather, gives body to it.</span> This brings us back to the central theme of this book: the parallax shift. <span class="Cite">Bartleby’s attitude is not merely the ﬁrst, preparatory, stage for the second, more “constructive,” work of forming a new alternative order; //it is the very source and background of this order//</span>, its permanent foundation.The di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>erence between Bartleby’s gesture of with- drawal and the formation of a new order is—again, and for the last time—that of par- allax: the very frantic and engaged activity of constructing a new order is sustained by an underlying “I would prefer not to” which forever reverberates in it—or, as Hegel might have put it, the new postrevolutionary order does not negate its founding ges- ture, the explosion of the destructive fury that wipes away the Old; it merely gives body to this negativity. The di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬃ</span>culty of imagining the New is the di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬃ</span>culty of imagining Bartleby in power. <span class="Underline">Thus the logic of the move</span> from the superego-parallax to the Bartleby-parallax <span class="Underline">is very precise: it is the move</span> from something to nothing, <span class="Underline">from the gap between two “somethings” to the gap that separates a something from noth- ing</span>, from the void of its own place.That is to say: in a “revolutionary situation,”what, exactly, happens to the gap between the public Law and its obscene superego supple- ment? It is not that, in a kind of metaphysical unity, the gap is simply abolished, that we obtain only a public regulation of social life, deprived of any hidden obscene sup- plement. The gap remains, but reduced to a structural minimum: to the “pure” di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>erence between the set of social regulations and the void of their absence. In other words, Bartleby’s gesture is what remains of the supplement to the Law when its place it emp- tied of all its obscene superego content. the obscene knot of ideology, and how to untie itWe should draw the same conclusions at the most general level of ontological dif- ference itself: it brings to an extreme the traditional philosophical di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>erence between the physical level and the metaphysical level, between the empirical and the transcen- dental, by reducing it to the “minimal” di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>erence between what is, something, and— not another, “higher,” reality, but—nothing. Overcoming metaphysics does not mean reducing the metaphysical dimension to ordinary physical reality (or, in a more “Marxist” way, showing how all metaphysical specters arise from the antagonisms of real life), but reducing the di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>erence between material reality and another, “higher” reality to the immanent di<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>erence, gap, between this reality and its own void; that is, to discern the void that separates material reality from itself, that makes it “non-all.”85 And the same goes for the ultimate parallax of political economy, the gap between the reality of everyday material social life (people interacting among themselves and with nature, su<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>ering, consuming, and so on) and the Real of the speculative dance of Cap- ital, its self-propelling movement which seems to be disconnected from ordinary re- ality.We can experience this gap very tangibly when we visit a country where life is obviously in a shambles,we see a lot of ecological decay and human misery; the econ- omist’s report we read afterward however, informs us that the country’s economic sit- uation is “ﬁnancially sane.”. . .Marx’s point here is not primarily to reduce the second dimension to the ﬁrst (to demonstrate how the supranatural mad dance of com- modities arises out of the antagonisms of “real life”); his point is, rather, that we cannot properly grasp the ﬁrst (the social reality of material production and social interaction) without the second: it is the self-propelling metaphysical dance of Capital that runs the show, that provides the key to real-life developments and catastrophes. Second (and more important, perhaps), the withdrawal expressed by “I would pre- fer not to” is not to be reduced to the attitude of “saying no to the Empire” but, ﬁrst and foremost, to all the wealth of what I have called the rumspringa of resistance, all the <span class="Underline">forms of resisting</span> which <span class="Underline">help the system to reproduce itself by ensuring our partici- pation in it</span>—today, “I would prefer not to” is not primarily “I would prefer not to participate in the market economy, in capitalist competition and proﬁteering,” but— much more problematically for some—“I would prefer not to give to charity to sup- port a Black orphan in Africa, engage in the struggle to prevent oil-drilling in a wildlife swamp, send books to educate our liberal-feminist-spirited women in Afghanistan. . . .” A distance toward the direct hegemonic interpellation—“Involve yourself in market competition, be active and productive!”—is the very mode of operation of today’s ide- ology: today’s ideal subject says to himself: “I am well aware that the whole business of social competition and material success is just an empty game, that my true Self is elsewhere!” If anything, “I would prefer not to” expresses, rather, a refusal to play the “Western Buddhist” game of “social reality is just an illusory game.” A wonderfully ambiguous indicator of our present ideological predicament is Sand- castles: Buddhism and Global Finance, a documentary by Alexander Oey () with com- mentaries from the economist Arnoud Boot, the sociologist Saskia Sassen, and the Tibetan Buddhist teacher Dzongzar Khyentse Rinpoche. Sassen and Boot discuss the 383gigantic scope, power, and social and economic e<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>ects of global ﬁnance: capital mar- kets, now valued at an estimated $ trillion, exist within a system based purely on self-interest, in which herd behavior, often based on rumor, can inﬂate or destroy the value of companies—or whole economies—in a matter of hours.Khyentse Rinpoche counters them with ruminations about the nature of human perception, illusion, and enlightenment;his philosophico-ethical statement “Release your attachment to some- thing that is not there in reality, but is a perception,” is supposed to throw a new light on the mad dance of billion-dollar speculations. Echoing the Buddhist notion that there is no Self, only a stream of continuous perceptions, Sassen comments about global cap- ital:“It’s not that there are $ trillion. It is essentially a continuous set of movements. It disappears and it reappears.” . . . The problem here, of course, is: how are we to read this parallel between Buddhist ontology and the structure of virtual capitalism’s universe? The ﬁlm tends toward the humanist reading: seen through a Buddhist lens, the exuberance of global ﬁnancial wealth is illusory, divorced from objective reality—the very real human su<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>ering cre- ated by deals made on trading ﬂoors and in boardrooms invisible to most of us. If, however,we accept the premise that the value of material wealth, and one’s experience of reality, is subjective, and that desire plays a decisive role in both daily life and neo- liberal economics, is it not possible to draw precisely the opposite conclusion? Is it not that our traditional life-world was based on naive-realist substantialist notions of external reality composed of ﬁxed objects,while the unprecedented dynamic of “vir- tual capitalism” confronts us with the illusory nature of reality? What better proof of the nonsubstantial character of reality could there be than a gigantic fortune which can dissolve into nothing in a couple of hours, just because of a sudden false rumor? Consequently, why complain that ﬁnancial futures speculations are “divorced from objective reality,”when the basic premise of Buddhist ontology is that there is no “ob- jective reality”? Thus the only “critical” lesson to be drawn from the Buddhist perspective about today’s virtual capitalism is that we should be aware that we are dealing with a mere theater of shadows, with insubstantial virtual entities, and, as a result, that we should not fully engage ourselves in the capitalist game, that we should play the game with an inner distance.Virtual capitalism could thus act as a ﬁrst step toward liberation: it confronts us with the fact that the cause of our su<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>ering and enslavement is not ob- jective reality itself (there is no such thing) but our Desire, our craving for material things, our excessive attachment to them; all we have to do, after we rid ourselves of the false notion of substantialist reality, is thus to renounce our desire itself, to adopt an attitude of inner peace and distance . . . no wonder such Buddhism can function as the perfect ideological supplement of today’s virtual capitalism: it allows us to partic- ipate in it with an inner distance—with our ﬁngers crossed, as it were. It is against such a disengagement that Bartleby repeats his “I would prefer not to”—not “not to do it”: his refusal is not so much the refusal of a determinate content as, rather, the formal gesture of refusal as such. It is therefore strictly analogous to the lunar parallax: toward a politics of subtractionSygne’s No!: it is an act of Versagung, not a symbolic act. <span class="Underline">There is a clear holophrastic qual- ity to “I would prefer not to”: it is a signiﬁer-turned-object, a signiﬁer reduced to an inert stain that stands for the collapse of the symbolic order.</span> There are two cinema versions of Bartleby: a TV ﬁlm from , directed by Anthony Friedman, and a  version set in today’s Los Angeles, directed by Jonathan Parker; however, a persistent, albeit unveriﬁed, rumor is haunting the Internet underground of a third version in which Bartleby is played by Anthony Perkins. Even if this rumor turns out to be false, se non è vero, è ben trovato holds here more than ever: Perkins, in his Norman Bates mode, would have been the Bartleby.We can imagine Bartleby’s smile, as he delivers his “I would prefer not to,” being that of Norman Bates in the very last shot of Psycho, when he looks into the camera, his (mother’s) voice saying: “I couldn’t even hurt a ﬂy.”There is no violent quality in it; the violence pertains to its very immo- bile, inert, insistent, impassive being. <span class="Underline">Bartleby couldn’t even hurt a ﬂy—that’s what makes his presence so unbearable.</span>


Standpoint epistemology is incoherent


<span class="CiteCardUpSize-HeavyChar">Gomm ‘96</span> Lecturer in Sociology and Social Policy, Open University

(Peter Foster and Roger Gomm and Martyn Hammersley, “Constructing educational inequality”, p. 37)


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Standpoint epistemologies</span> also <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">suffer</span> from <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">severe problems.We must ask on what groundswe can decide</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">one category ofperson has superior insight</span> into reality. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This cannot be</span> simply <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">because they declare</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they have this</span> insight; <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">otherwise everyonecould make the</span> same <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">claim with the same legitimacy</span> (we would be back to relativism). This means that some other form of ultimate justification is involved, but what could this be? In the Marxist version of this argument the working class are the group with privileged insight into the nature of social reality, yet it is Marx and Marxist theorists who confer this privilege on them by means of a particular philosophy of history. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Something similar occurs in</span> the case of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">feminist standpoint theory, where the</span> feminist <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">theorist ascribes privileged insight to women</span>, or to feminists engaged in the struggle for women’s emancipation (Hartsock, 1983. Harding, 1986). However, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">while</span> we must recognize that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">people in different</span> social <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">locations</span> may <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">have divergent perspectives</span> which give them distinctive insights, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is not clear why we should believe the implausible claim that some people have privileged access to knowledge while others areblinded by ideology, simply by virtue of their social positions</span> (Merton, 1972).

No spill over
<span class="CardCite1">O'Callaghan ‘2</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Terry O’Callaghan, Lecturer in International Relations, University of South Australia, 2002, International Relations and the Third Debate, p. 80-1)</span>
There are also a host of technological and logistical questions that plague George's scheme and make problematic his recommendations. For example, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">through what medium are those on the fringes of the</span> international <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">system going to speak to the world?</span> Although it may be true that the third world has now been integrated into the global polity via the advent of technological innovations in communications, allowing for remote access to information sources and the Internet, it also remains true that the majority of those on the fringes continue to be disenfranchised from such mediums, whether as a result of a lack of economic resources, the prevalence of illiteracy, or social, cultural and political circumstances that systemically exclude, women (among others) from economic resources and certain political and social freedoms. Need we remind George that social, political, and individual autonomy is at a minimum in these parts of the world, and an intellectual approach as controversial as postmodernism is not likely to achieve the sorts of goals that George optimistically foreshadows. Indeed, on practical questions such as these, matters otherwise central to the success of postmodern visions, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">George prefers to be vague, suggesting</span> instead that the intricacies of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">such details will somehow work themselves out</span> in a manner satisfactory to all. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Such a position reveals</span> George's latent idealism and underscores how George's schema is an intellectual one: a theory of international politics written for other theorists of international politics. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">George's audience is</span> thus <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a verylimited</span> and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">elite audience and begs the question of whether a</span> senior, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">middle-class scholar</span> in the intellectual heartland of Australia <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">can doanything of real substance to aid the truly marginalized</span> and oppressed. How is it possible to put oneself in the shoes of the "other," to advocate on his or her behalf, when such is done from a position of affluence, unrelated to and far removed from the experiences of those whom George otherwise champions? <span class="CardCite1">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ideals are</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> all good and well, but it is</span>//</span> hard to imagine that the computer keyboard is mightier than the sword, and <span class="CardCite1">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">hard to see how a small, elite</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,affluent assortment ofintellectuals is going to generate the</span>//</span> type of <span class="CardCite1">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">political momentum necessary</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> to allow those on the fringes to speak</span>//</span> and be heard! 1 . Moreover, why should we assume that states and individuals want to listen and will listen to what the marginalized and the oppressed have to say? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There is precious littleevidence</span> to suggest that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"listening" is something</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">advanced capitalist countries do very well at all.</span> Indeed, one of the allegations so forcefully alleged by Muslim fundamentalists as justification for the terrorist attacks of September I I is precisely that the West, and America in particular, are deaf to the disenfranchised and impoverished in the world. Certainly, there are agencies and individuals who are sensitive to the needs of the "marginalized" and who champion institutional forums where indigenous voices can be heard. But on even the most optimistic reckoning, such forums and institutions represent the exception, not the rule, and remain in the minority if not dwarfed by those institutions that represent Western, first world interests. To be sure, this is a realist power-political image of the current configuration of the global polity, but one apparently, and ironically, endorsed by George if only because it speaks to the realities of the marginalized, the imposed silences, and the multitude of oppressions on which George founds his call for a postmodern ethic. Recognizing such realities, however, does not explain George's penchant for ignoring them entirely, especially in terms of the structural rigidities they pose for meaningful reform. Indeed, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">George'sdesire to move to a new</span> "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">space beyond I</span>nternational <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">R</span>elations" <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">smacks of wishful idealism, ignoring</span> the current configuration of global political relations and power distribution; of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the</span> incessant <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ideological power of hyperindividualism, consumerism, advertising, Hollywood images, and fashion icons;</span> and of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the innate power bestowed on</span> the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">(institutional) barons of global finance, trade, and transnational production.</span> George seems to have little appreciation of the structural impediments such institutions pose for radical change of the type he so fiercely advocates. Revolutionary change of the kind desired by George ignores that fact that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">many individuals are not disposed to concerns beyond their family, friends, and daily work</span>lives. And institutional, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">structural transformation requires organized effort, mass popular support, and dogged single-mindedness if societal norms are to be challenged, institutional reform enacted, consumer tastes altered, and political sensibilities reformed. Convincing Nike</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there is something intrinsically wrong with paying Indonesian workers a few dollars</span> a week to manufacture shoes for the global market <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">requires considerably more effort than postmodern platitudes and/or moral indignation. The cycle ofwealth creation</span> and distribution <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that sees Michael Jordan receive multimillion</span> dollar <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">contracts</span> to inspire demand for Nike products, while the foot soldiers in the factory eke out a meager existence producing these same products <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is not</span> easily, or <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">realistically</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">challenged by pronouncements of moving</span> beyond <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">I</span>nternational <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">R</span>elations <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to a</span> new, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nicer</span>, gentler <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nirvana.</span> More generally, of course, what George fails to consider is the problem of apathy and of how we get people to care about the plight of others. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">What do we do with the CEOs of m</span>ulti<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">n</span>ational <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">c</span>orporation<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">s, stockbrokers, accountants, factory workers, and theunemployed, who, by and large, fail to consider the homeless and destitute in their own countries, let alone in places theyhave never visited and are never likely to visit?</span> Moral indignation rarely translates into action, and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">apathy about the plight of others is a structural impediment as strong any idea, theory, or writing.</span> What George's treatise thus fails to consider is how we overcome this, and how we get others to listen. He needs to explain how the social, political, psychological, and moral structures that define the parameters of existence for the many millions of ordinary citizens in the first world, and that deflects attention from the marginalized and the oppressed can be broken down. Unfortunately, there is little to indicate that George has thought much about this, suggesting that his commitment to postmodern theory is not likely to make much difference. In fact, in the academy the postmodern light is already beginning to dim in certain quarters, having registered scarcely a glimmer in the broader polity, where, if change was to ensue, it needed to burn brightly. Even among those versed in the nomenclature of scholarly debate, theorists of international politics remain skeptical of the value of postmodern discourse, by and large rejecting it. This does not portend well for postmodern visionaries and the future of postmodern discourse. But can George really be surprised by this? After all, his discourse indicts the "backward discipline" for complicity in crimes against humanity, calling for a repudiation of realism and with it a repudiation of the lifelong beliefs and writings of eminent theorists like Kenneth Waltz, Robert Gilpin, and Stephen Krasner who have otherwise defined the parameters of the discipline, its projects, and research agendas. Can George really expect discipline-wide capitulation to an intellectual diaspora that would see theorists repudiate their beliefs and works in order to take up the creed of postmodernism, as vague, open-ended, and indeterminate as it is? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Without a clear and credible plan</span> of how to get from "incarceration and closure" to intellectual freedom, creativity, and openness, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">George's</span> postmodern <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">musings have understandably attracted few disciples.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Anthropocentrism K</span>== 


<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">Part I: The Forgotten History</span>


The horrific experiences of nonwhite as a product of earliest transportation policies is nothing new. The human heritage is one of pure destruction. From our birth we domesticated and slaughtered our non-human brothers and sisters immediately followed by an eradication of the Neanderthals, and today we continue that legacy through an ongoing extermination of all life on Earth, both human and non-human of all races and genders.

Tarik <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kochi and</span>Noam<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ordan ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">*a lecturer in the School of Law @ Queen’s University, Northern Ireland. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**a linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, Israel.**</span>

**[Borderlands VOLUME 7 NUMBER 3, 2008, An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity]**


**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Within the picture many paint of humanity</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">events such as the Holocaust are considered as an</span> exception, an <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">aberration</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Holocaust is often portrayed as an example of ‘evil’, a moment of hatred, madness and cruelty</span> (cf. the differing accounts of ‘evil’ given in Neiman, 2004). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The event is also treated as one through which humanity might comprehend</span> its own weakness <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and draw strength</span>, via <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the resolve that such actions will never happen again</span>. However,** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">if we take seriously the differing ways in which the Holocaust was ‘evil’</span>**,** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">then one must surely include along side it the almost uncountable numbers of genocides that have occurred throughout human history</span>**. Hence, if we are to think of the content of the ‘human heritage’, then this must include <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the annihilation of indigenous peoples and their cultures across the globe and the manner in which their beliefs, behaviours and social practices have been erased from what the people of the ‘West’</span> generally <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">consider</span> to be the content of a <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">human heritage</span>. Again the history of colonialism is telling here. It reminds us exactly how normal, regular and mundane acts of annihilation of different forms of human life and culture have been throughout human history. Indeed the history of colonialism, in its various guises, points to the fact that so many of our legal institutions and forms of ethical life (i.e. nation-states which pride themselves on protecting human rights through the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">rule of law</span>) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">have been founded upon colonial violence, war and the appropriation of other peoples’ land</span> (Schmitt, 2003; Benjamin, 1986). Further, the history of colonialism highlights the central function of ‘race war’ that often underlies human social organisation and many of its legal and ethical systems of thought (Foucault, 2003). This history of modern colonialism thus presents a key to understanding that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">events such as the Holocaust</span> are not an aberration and exception but are closer to the norm, and sadly,** //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">lie at the heart of any heritage of humanity</span>//**. After all, all too often the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">European colonisation of the globe was justified by arguments that indigenous inhabitants were racially ‘inferior’ and</span> in some instances that they were <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">closer to ‘apes’ than to humans</span> (Diamond, 2006). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Such violence justified by an erroneous view of ‘race’ is in many ways merely an extension of an underlying attitude of speciesism involving a long history of killing and enslavement of non-human species by humans</span>. Such a connection between the two histories of inter-human violence (via the mythical notion of differing human ‘races’) and interspecies violence, is well expressed in Isaac Bashevis Singer’s comment that whereas humans consider themselves “the crown of creation”, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">for animals “all people are Nazis</span>” and** //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">animal life is “an eternal Treblinka”</span>// **(Singer, 1968, p.750). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Certainly many organisms use ‘force’ to survive and thrive at the expense of their others</span>. Humans are not special in this regard. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">However humans</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">due to a particular form of self-awareness and ability to plan for the future, have the capacity to carry out highly organised forms of violence and destruction</span> (i.e. the Holocaust; the massacre and enslavement of indigenous peoples by Europeans) and the capacity to develop forms of social organisation and communal life in which harm and violence are organised and regulated. It is perhaps this capacity for reflection upon the merits of harm and violence (the moral reflection upon the good and bad of violence) which gives humans a ‘special’ place within the food chain. Nonetheless, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">with these capacities come responsibility</span> and our proposal of global suicide is directed at bringing into full view the issue of human moral responsibility. When taking a wider view of history, one which focuses on the relationship of humans towards other species, it becomes clear that the human heritage – and the propagation of itself as a thing of value – has occurred on the back of seemingly endless acts of violence, destruction, killing and genocide. While this cannot be verified, perhaps** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">‘human’</span> **history and** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">progressbegins with the genocide of the Neanderthals and never loses a step thereafter</span>**. It only takes a short glimpse at the list of all the sufferings caused by humanity for one to begin to question whether this species deserves to continue into the future. The list of human-made disasters is ever-growing after all: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">suffering caused to animals in the name of</span> science or human health, not to mention the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cosmetic, food and textile industries</span>; <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">damage to the environment by polluting the earth and its stratosphere</span>; <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">deforestingand overuse of natural resources; and</span> of course, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">inflicting suffering on fellow human beings all over the globe, from killing to economic exploitation to abusing minorities, individually and collectively</span>. In light of such a list <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it becomes difficult to hold onto any assumption that the human species possesses any special or higher value over other species</span>. Indeed, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">if humans</span> at any point <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">did possess such a value,</span> because of higher cognitive powers, or even because of a special status granted by God, then <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">humanity has surely devalued itself through its actions and has forfeited its claim to any special place within the cosmos</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In our development from higher predator to semi-conscious destroyer we have</span> perhaps <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">undermined all that is good in ourselves and have left behind a heritage best exemplified by the images of the gas chamber and the incinerator</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">We draw attention to this</span> darker and pessimistic view of the human heritage not for dramatic reasons but <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to throw into question the stability of a modern humanism which sees itself as inherently ‘good’ and which presents the action of cosmic colonisation as a solution to environmental catastrophe</span>.** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rather than presenting a solution it would seem that an ideology of modern humanism is itself a greater part of the problem</span>**, and as part of the problem <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it cannot overcome itself purely with itself</span>. If this is so, what perhaps needs to occur is the attempt to let go of any one-sided and privileged value of the ‘human’ as it relates to moral activity. That is, perhaps it is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">modern humanism itself that must be negated and supplemented by a utopian antihumanism and moral action re-conceived</span> through this relational or dialectical standpoint in thought.**


**Their evidence misdiagnoses and conceals the root of the problem. The mantle of White Supremacy was not born 500 years ago with the racial contract, but rather 20,000 years ago with the Neolithic Revolution. Both the slave trade and the modern educational apparatuses or racism were conceived and perfected in humanity’s subjugation of other animals.**

**Dr. Steven <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Best ‘7</span>**

**[Associate Professor, Departments of Humanities and Philosophy, University of Texas, El Paso. Reviewing: Charles Patterson, The Eternal Treblinka: Our Treatment of Animals and the Holocaust New York: Lantern Books, 2002, 280 pp., Journal of Critical Animal Studies, Vol 5, Issue 2]**


**The Origins of Hierarchy "<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As long as men massacre animals, they will kill each other</span>" –Pythagoras It is little understood that the first form of oppression, domination, and hierarchy involves human domination over animals. Patterson’s thesis stands in bold contrast to the Marxist theory that the domination over nature is fundamental to the domination over other humans. It differs as well from the social ecology position of Murray Bookchin that domination over humans brings about alienation from the natural world, provokes hierarchical mindsets and institutions, and is the root of the long-standing western goal to “dominate” nature. In the case of Marxists, anarchists, and so many others, theorists typically don’t even mention human domination of animals, let alone assign it causal primacy or significance. In Patterson’s model, however, the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">human subjugation of animals is the first form of hierarchy and it paves the way for all other systems of domination such as</span> include <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">patriarchy, racism, colonialism, anti-Semitism, and the Holocaust.</span> As he puts it, “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the exploitation of animals was the model and inspiration for the atrocities people committed against each other, slavery and the Holocaust being</span> but <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">two</span> of the more <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">dramatic examples.”</span>** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hierarchy emerged with the rise of agricultural society some ten thousand years ago. </span>**In <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the shift from nomadic hunting and gathering bands to settled agricultural practices, humans began to establish their dominance over animals through “domestication.”</span> In animal domestication (often a euphemism disguising coercion and cruelty), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">humans began to exploit animals</span> for purposes such as obtaining food, milk, clothing, plowing, and transportation. As they gained increasing control over the lives and labor power of animals, humans <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">bred them for desired traits and controlled them in various ways, such as castrating males to make them more docile. </span>To conquer, enslave, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and claim animals as their own property, humans developed</span> numerous <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">technologies, such as</span> pens, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cages</span>, collars, ropes, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">chains, and branding irons</span>. The domination of animals paved the way for the domination of humans. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The sexual subjugation of women</span>, Patterson suggests, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">was modeled after the domestication of animals, such that men began to control women’s reproductive capacity, to enforce repressive sexual norms, and to rape them as they forced breeding in their animals</span>. Not coincidentally, Patterson argues,** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">slavery emerged in the same region of the Middle East that spawned agriculture, and</span>**, in fact,** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">developed as an extension of animal domestication practices</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. In</span> areas like <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Sumer, slaves were managed like livestock, and males were castrated</span> and forced to work along with females. In the fifteenth century, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">when Europeans began the colonization of Africa and Spain introduced the first international slave markets, the metaphors, models, and tech</span>nologies <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">used to exploit animal slaves were applied with equal cruelty and force to human slaves</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Stealing Africans from their native environment</span> and homeland, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">breaking up families</span> who scream in anguish, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">wrapping chains around slaves’</span> bodies, shipping them <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in cramped quarters</span> across continents <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">for</span> weeks or <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">months with no regard for their </span>needs or <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">suffering</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">branding their skin with a hot iron to mark them as property</span>, auctioning them as servants, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">breeding them for service</span> and labor, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">exploiting them for profit</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">beating them in rages of</span> hatred and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">anger, and killing them in vast numbers</span> – all <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">these horrors</span> and countless others inflicted on black slaves <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">were developed and perfected centuries earlier through animal exploitation</span>.** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As the domestication of animals developed in agricultural society, humans lost the intimate connections they once had with animals</span>**. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">By the time of Aristotle</span>, certainly, and with the bigoted assistance of medieval theologians such as St. Augustine and Thomas Aquinas, western <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">humanity had developed an explicitly hierarchical worldview</span> – that came to be known as <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the “Great Chain of Being</span>” – <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">used to position humans as the end to which all other beings were mere means.</span> Patterson underscores the crucial point that the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">domination of human over human and its exercise through slavery, warfare, and genocide</span> typically <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">begins with the denigration of victims</span>. But <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the means and methods of dehumanization are derivative, for speciesism provided the conceptual paradigm that encouraged, sustained, and justified western brutality toward other peoples</span>. “Throughout the history of our ascent to dominance as the master species,” Patterson writes, “our victimization of animals has served as the model and foundation for our victimization of each other. The study of human history reveals the pattern:** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">first, humans exploit and slaughter animals; then, they treat other people like animals and do the same to them.” Whether the conquerors are European imperialists, American colonialists, or German Nazis, western aggressors engaged in wordplay before swordplay, vilifying their victims – Africans, Native Americans, Filipinos, Japanese, Vietnamese, Iraqis, and other unfortunates – with opprobrious terms such as</span>**“rats,” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">pigs</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,”</span> “swine,” “monkeys,”** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“beasts,” and “filthy animals.”</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Once perceived as brute beasts or sub-humans occupying a lower evolutionary rung than white westerners, subjugated peoples were treated accordingly; once characterized as animals, they could be hunted down like animals.</span> The first exiles from the moral community, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">animals provided a convenient discard bin for oppressors to dispose the oppressed</span>. The connections are clear: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">For a civilization built on the exploitation and slaughter of animals, the `lower’ and more degraded the human victims are, the easier it is to kill them</span>**.” Thus, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">colonialism,</span> as Patterson describes, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">was a “natural extension of human supremacy over the animal kingdom</span>.” For <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">just as humans had subdued animals with their superior intelligence and tech</span>nologies, so many <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Europeans believed that the white race had proven its superiority by bringing the “lower races” under its command</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There are</span> important <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">parallels between speciesism and sexism and racism in the elevation of white male rationality to the touchstone of moral worth. The arguments European colonialists used to legitimate exploiting Africans – that they were less than human and inferior to white Europeans in ability to reason – are the very same justifications humans use to trap, hunt, confine, and kill animals</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Once western norms of rationality were defined as the essence of humanity</span>and social normality,** //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by first using non-human animals as the measure of alterity, it was a short step to begin viewing</span>// **odd, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">different</span>, exotic, and eccentric** //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">peoples and types</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as</span>//**non- or** //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">sub-human</span>//**. Thus, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the same criterion created to exclude animals from humans was also used to ostracize blacks, women, and numerous other groups from “humanity</span>.” The <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">oppression of blacks, women, and animals alike was grounded in an argument that biological inferiority predestined them for servitude</span>. In the major strain of western thought, alleged rational beings (i.e., elite, white, western males) pronounce that the Other (i.e., women, people of color, animals) is deficient in rationality in ways crucial to their nature and status, and therefore are deemed and treated as inferior, subhuman, or nonhuman. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Whereas the racist mindset creates a hierarchy of superior/inferior on the basis of skin color, and the sexist mentality splits men and women into greater and lower classes of beings, the speciesist outlook demeans and objectifies animals by dichotomizing the biological continuum into the antipodes of humans and animals</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">As racism stems from a hateful white supremacism, and sexism is the product of a bigoted male supremacism, so speciesism stems from and informs a violent human supremacism -- namely, the arrogant belief that humans have a natural or God-given right to use animals for any purpose</span> they devise <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or</span>, more generously, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">within the moral boundaries of</span> welfarism and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">stewardship</span>, which however was Judaic moral baggage official Chistianithy left behind<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">. By the nineteenth century,</span> exploiting a corrupt understanding of Darwin’s natural selection theory, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Social Darwinists promoted the pernicious ideology of “Might is Right” in order to frame class domination as something natural and inevitable rather than contingent and subject to change</span>. A variant of Social Darwinism was <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">used by Hitler and German Nazis to justify their genocidal campaigns’. Ultimately derived from speciesism, the Might is Right view continues to prop up human barbarity toward animals, and it has sedimented into a bland, unreflective “common sense” consent to human supremacism and the ongoing pogrom against animals.</span>**




**<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">Part II: Life is not Language</span>**


**The aff attempts to fight a real world social injustice of racism by interrogating the nuances of language. This assumption that we can fight real world social injustice simply by examing the nuances of words is an inherently anthropocentric assumption that assumes the non-human world of social and material interactions is a mere play thing of the human mind. This has historically been the enabler of domination.**


**[*Faculty of Environmental Studies @ York University,** Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, “Beyond Human, Beyond Words: Anthropocentrism, Critical Pedagogy, and the Poststructuralist Turn”, Canadian Journal of Education, http://www.csse-scee.ca/CJE/Articles/FullText/CJE25-3/CJE25-3.pdf#page=22]


We come to critical pedagogy with a background in environmental thought and education. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Of</span> primary <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">concern</span> and interest <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to us are relationships among humans and the “more-than-human world”</span> (Abram, 1996), the ways in which those relationships are constituted and prescribed in modern industrial society, and the implications and consequences of those constructs. As a number of scholars and nature advocates have argued, the <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">many manifestations of the current environmental crisis</span> (e.g., <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">species extinction, toxic contamination, ozone depletion, topsoil depletion, climate change, acid rain, deforestation</span>) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">reflect predominant</span> Western <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">concepts of nature</span>, nature cast <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as mindless matter</span>, a mere resource to be <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">exploited for human gain</span> (Berman, 1981; Evernden, 1985; Merchant, 1980). An ability to respond adequately to the situation therefore rests, at least in part, on a willingness to critique prevailing discourses about nature and to consider alternative representations (Cronon, 1996; Evernden, 1992; Hayles, 1995). To this end, poststructuralist analysis has been and will continue to be invaluable. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It would be an all-too-common mistake to construe the task at hand as one of interest only to environmentalists</span>. We believe, rather, that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">disrupting the social scripts that structure and legitimize the human domination of nonhuman nature is fundamental</span> not only to dealing with environmental issues, but also <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to</span> examining and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">challenging oppressive social arrangements</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The exploitation of nature is not separate from the exploitation of human groups.</span> Ecofeminists and activists for environmental justice have shown that forms of domination are often intimately connected and mutually reinforcing (Bullard, 1993; Gaard, 1997; Lahar, 1993; Sturgeon, 1997). Thus, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">if critical educators wish to resist</span> various <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">oppressions</span>, <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">part of their project must entail calling into question</span>**</span>, among other things, <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the instrumental exploitive gaze through which we humans distance ourselves from the rest of nature</span>**</span> (Carlson, 1995). For this reason, the various <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">movements against oppression need to be aware of and supportive of each other</span>. In critical pedagogy, however, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the exploration of questions of race</span>, gender, class, and sexuality <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has proceeded so far with little acknowledgement of the systemic links between human oppressions and the domination of nature</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The more-than-human world</span> and human relationships to it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">have been ignored, as if the suffering and exploitation of other beings and the global ecological crisis were somehow irrelevant</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Despite the call for attention to voices historically absent from traditional</span> canons and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">narratives</span> (Sadovnik, 1995, p. 316), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nonhuman beings are shrouded in silence</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This silence characterizes even the work of writers who call for a rethinking of</span> all <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">culturally positioned essentialisms</span>. Like other educators influenced by poststructuralism, we agree that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there is a need to scrutinize the language we use, the meanings we deploy, and the epistemological frameworks</span> of past eras (Luke & Luke, 1995, p. 378). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">To treat social categories as stable and unchanging is to reproduce the prevailing relations of power</span> (Britzman et al., 1991, p. 89). What would it mean, then, for critical pedagogy to extend this investigation and critique to include taken-for-granted understandings of “human,” “animal,” and “nature”? This question is difficult to raise precisely because these understandings are taken for granted. The <span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">anthropocentric bias in critical pedagogy manifests itself in silence and in the asides of texts</span>//**</span>. Since <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is not a topic of discussion, it can be difficult to situate a critique of it.</span> Following feminist analyses, we find that examples of anthropocentrism, like examples of gender symbolization, occur “in those places where speakers reveal the assumptions they think they do not need to defend, beliefs they expect to share with their audiences” (Harding, 1986, p. 112). Take, for example, Freire’s (1990) statements about the differences between “Man” and animals. To set up his discussion of praxis and the importance of “naming” the world, he outlines what he assumes to be shared, commonsensical beliefs about humans and other animals. He defines the boundaries of human membership according to a sharp, hierarchical dichotomy that establishes human superiority. Humans alone, he reminds us, are aware and self-conscious beings who can act to fulfill the objectives they set for themselves. Humans alone are able to infuse the world with their creative presence, to overcome situations that limit them, and thus to demonstrate a “decisive attitude towards the world” (p. 90). Freire (1990, pp. 87–91) represents other animals in terms of their lack of such traits. They are doomed to passively accept the given, their lives “totally determined” because their decisions belong not to themselves but to their species. Thus <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">whereas humans inhabit a “world” which they </span>//**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">create</span>**//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> and </span>//**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">transform</span>**//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> and </span>//**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">from which they can separate themselves</span>**//, <span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">for animals there is only habitat, a mere physical space to which they are “organically bound.”</span>//**</span> To accept Freire’s assumptions is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to believe that humans are animals only in a nominal sense</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">We are different not in degree but in kind</span>, and though we might recognize that other animals have distinct qualities, we as humans are somehow more unique. We have the edge over other creatures because we are able to rise above monotonous, species-determined biological existence. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Change in the service of human freedom is seen to be our primary agenda</span>. //**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Humans are thus cast as active agents whose very essence is to transform the world – as if somehow acceptance, appreciation, wonder, and reverence were beyond the pale</span>**//. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This discursive frame of reference is characteristic of critical pedagogy. The human/animal opposition upon which it rests is taken for granted, its cultural and historical specificity not acknowledged</span>. And therein lies the problem. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Like other social constructions, this one derives its persuasiveness from its “seeming facticity and from the deep investments individuals and communities have in setting themselves off from others”</span> (Britzman et al., 1991, p. 91). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This becomes the normal way of seeing the world, and like other discourses of normalcy, it limits possibilities of taking up and confronting inequities</span> (see Britzman, 1995). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The primacy of the human enterprise is simply not questioned. Precisely how an anthropocentric pedagogy might exacerbate the environmental crisis has not received much consideration</span> in the literature of critical pedagogy, especially in North America. Although there may be passing reference to planetary destruction, <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there is seldom mention of the relationship between education and the domination of nature</span>**</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">let alone any sustained exploration of the links between the domination of nature and other social injustices</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Concerns about the nonhuman are relegated to environmental education.</span> And since environmental education, in turn, remains <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">peripheral to the core curriculum</span> (A. Gough, 1997; Russell, Bell, & Fawcett, 2000), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">anthropocentrism passes unchallenged</span>. Bowers (1993a, 1993b) has identified a number of root <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">metaphors</span> or “analogs” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in critical pedagogy</span> that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">reinforce the problem of anthropocentric thinking.</span> These include <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the notion of change as inherently progressive</span>, faith in the power of rational thought, <span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span>//****//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> an understanding of individuals as “potentially free, voluntaristic entities who will take responsibility for creating themselves when freed from societal forms of oppression”</span>//**</span> (1993a, pp. 25–26). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Such assumptions</span>, argues Bowers, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are part of the Enlightenment legacy on which</span> critical pedagogy, and indeed <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">liberal education</span> generally, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is based. In other words</span>, they are culturally specific and stem from a period in Western history when <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the modern industrial world view was beginning to take shape</span>. To be fair, Bowers understates the extent to which these assumptions are being questioned within critical pedagogy (e.g., Giroux, 1995; Peters, 1995; Shapiro, 1994; Weiler & Mitchell, 1992, pp. 1, 5). Nevertheless, his main point is well taken: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">proponents of critical pedagogy have yet to confront the ecological consequences of an educational process that reinforces beliefs and practices formed when</span> unlimited economic expansion and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">social progress seemed promised</span> (Bowers, 1993b, p. 3). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">What happens when the expansion of human possibilities is equated with the possibilities of consumption</span>? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">How is educating for freedom predicated on the exploitation of the nonhuman</span>? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Such queries push against taken-for-granted understandings of human, nature, self, and community</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span> thus <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">bring into focus the underlying tension between “freedom” as it is constituted within critical pedagogy and the limits that emerge through consideration of humans’ interdependence with the more-than-human world</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This tension is symptomatic of anthropocentrism</span>. <span class="Underline">//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Humans are</span>////<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">assumed to be free agents separate from and pitted against the rest of nature, our fulfillment predicated on overcoming material constraints</span>//</span>. <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This assumption of human</span>****<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> difference and superiority</span>**</span>, central to Western thought since Aristotle (Abram, 1996, p. 77), <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">has long been used to justify the exploitation of nature</span>****<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> by and for humankind</span>**</span> (Evernden, 1992, p. 96). <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It has also been used to justify the exploitation of human groups</span>**</span> (e.g., <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">women, Blacks, queers, indigenous peoples</span>**</span>) <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">deemed to be closer to nature</span>**</span> – that is, <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">animalistic</span>****<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, irrational, savage, or uncivilized</span>**</span> (Gaard, 1997; Haraway, 1989, p. 30; Selby, 1995, pp. 17–20; Spiegel, 1988).


Their argument that “a metaphor” can work to restructure systemic norms is undergirded by a believed primacy of human discourse. When we come to believe that our language can alter the world instead of interpret it, every non-human life becomes a mere play-thing to our imagination reifying anthropocentrism in their effort to combat white supremacy.

Anne C. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bell and</span> Constance L. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russell 2K</span>

[*Faculty of Environmental Studies @ York University, **Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, “Beyond Human, Beyond Words: Anthropocentrism, Critical Pedagogy, and the Poststructuralist Turn”, Canadian Journal of Education, http://www.csse-scee.ca/CJE/Articles/FullText/CJE25-3/CJE25-3.pdf#page=22]**


**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This “organic apartheid”</span> (Evernden, 1992, p. 119) is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">bolstered by the belief that language is an exclusively human property that elevates mere biological existence to meaningful, social existence</span>. Understood in this way, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">language undermines our embodied sense of interdependence with a more-than-human world.</span>** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rather than being a point of entry into the webs of communication all around us, language becomes a medium through which we set ourselves apart and above</span>**. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This view of language is deeply embedded in</span> the conceptual framework of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">critical pedagogy</span>, including poststructuralist approaches. So too is the human/nature dichotomy upon which it rests. When writers assume that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“it is language that enables us to think, speak and give meaning to the world around us,” </span>that “meaning and consciousness do not exist outside language” (Weedon, 1987, p. 32) and that “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">subjectivity is constructed by and in language</span>” (Luke & Luke, 1995, p. 378), then their** //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">transformative projects are encoded so as to exclude any consideration of the nonhuman</span>//**. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Such assumptions effectively remove all subjects from nature</span>. As Evernden (1992) puts it, “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">if subjectivity</span>, willing, valuation, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and meaning are securely lodged in the domain of humanity, the possibility of encountering anything more than material objects in nature is </span>**//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nil</span>//**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">”</span> (p. 108). What is forgotten? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">What is erased when the real is equated with a proliferating culture of</span> commodified <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">signs</span> (see Luke & Luke, 1995, on Baudrillard)<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">?</span> To begin, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we forget that we humans are surrounded by an astonishing diversity of life forms. We no longer perceive or give expression to a world in which everything has intelligence, personality, and voice. Polyphonous echoes are reduced to</span> homophony, a term Kane (1994) uses to denote “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the</span> reduced <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">sound of human language</span> when it is used under the assumption that speech is something belonging only to human beings” (p. 192). We forget too what Abram (1996) describes as the gestural, somatic dimension of language, its sensory and physical resonance that we share with all expressive bodies (p. 80). The vast forgetting to which these scholars allude is a culturally and historically specific phenomenon. In Western culture, explains Evernden (1992), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is to the Renaissance that we owe the modern conceptualization of nature from which all human qualities, including linguistic expression, have been segregated and dismissed as “projection</span>.”** <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Once scoured of any normative content assigned to humanity, nature is strictly constrained, knowable, and ours to interrogate</span>**(pp. 28, 39–40, 48). It is objectified as a “thing,” whereas any <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">status as agent or social being is reserved for humans</span> (Haraway, 1988, p. 592). The language best suited to this cleansing of nature is that of the natural sciences. Scientific accounts, written in language “exclusively descriptive and avowedly neutral” (Evernden, 1992, p. 85), are widely regarded as factual and unbiased and thus are granted a privileged role in naming nature. As Haraway (1986) explains: A scientist “names” nature in written, public documents, which are endowed with the special, institutionally enforced quality of being perceived as objective and applicable beyond the cultures of the people who wrote those documents. (p. 79) According to Haraway (1986), the aesthetic of realism that underlies the truth claims of the natural sciences means many <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">practitioners tend to see themselves not as interpreters but “as discoverers moving from description to causal explanation</span>” (p. 89). Haraway’s analysis reminds us that poststructuralism can and should be used to call into question the universal legitimacy of science insofar as it is used to explicate not only the human domain but also the natural sciences. This questioning almost never takes place. Whereas accusations of reductionism have been levelled at the biobehavioural sciences when focused on humans (e.g., explaining behaviour solely in genetic terms), rarely are these accusations made against similar studies on nonhumans (Noske, 1997, p. 83). The reason, presumably, is that the sorts of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">questions that could be raised about how culture, class, race, and gender shape knowledge about human experience do not pertain to truth claims about the nonhuman. Humans alone are understood to have histories open to interpretation. Everything else is matter for measurement and prediction</span>, physical stuff that can be described and classified once and for all. To move beyond such taken-for-granted notions of human and nature, Evernden and Haraway suggest, we must admit into the conversation some “non-common-sensical insights” and some “unsettling possibilities” (Evernden, 1992, p. 102 and Haraway, 1988, p. 593, respectively). Haraway (1992) writes of “**//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">otherworldly conversations</span>//**,” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a metaphor helpful in pointing to the possibility of conversants in a discourse in which all of the actors are not “us”</span> (p. 84). To this end, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we consider a few promising reconceptualizations of what might constitute language, agency, and meaningful existence beyond the human realm</span>.**



<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thus, our alternative is to embrace the affirmative’s impacts in the imagination of the collective suicide of humanity. Only by reaching the conclusion that the world would be a better place without our existence allows us to reframe our relationship with the biosphere and solve the affirmative’s harms. Their desire to preserve humanity via modernization is exactly what we must give up to negate our humanistic impulse.</span>

**Tarik <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kochi and</span>Noam<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ordan ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">*a lecturer in the School of Law @Queen’s University, Northern Ireland. </span>**

a linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, Israel.

[Borderlands VOLUME 7 NUMBER 3, 2 0 0 8, An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity]


It should be noted nonetheless that our proposal for <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the global suicide of humanity</span> is based upon the notion that such a radical action needs to be voluntary and not forced. In this sense, and given the likelihood of such an action not being agreed upon, it <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">operates as a thought experiment which may help humans to radically rethink what it means to participate in modern</span>, moral <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">life within the natural world</span>. In other words, <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">whether or not the act of global suicide takes place might</span>**</span> well <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">be irrelevant</span>**</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">What is more important is the</span> form of <span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">critical reflection that an individual needs to go through before coming to the conclusion that the global suicide of humanity is an action that would be worthwhile</span>//**</span>. The point then of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a thought experiment that considers the argument for the global suicide of humanity is the attempt to outline an anti-humanist</span>, or <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">non-human-centric ethic</span>s. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Such an ethic</span>s <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">attempts to take into account </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">both sides of the human heritage</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">: the capacity to carry out violence</span> and inflict harm <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and the capacity to use moral reflection and creative social organisation to minimise violence</span> and harm. Through the idea of global suicide such an ethics reintroduces a central question to the heart of moral reflection: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">To what extent is the value of the continuation of human life worth the total harm inflicted upon the life of all others</span>? <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Regardless of whether an individual finds the idea of global suicide</span> abhorrent or <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">ridiculous, this question remains valid and relevant and will not go away</span>, no matter how hard we try to forget, suppress or repress it. Finally, it is important to note that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">such a standpoint need not fall into</span> a version of green or <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">eco-fascism that considers other forms of life more important than the lives of humans</span>. Such a position merely replicates in reverse the speciesism of modern humanist thought. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Any choice between</span>the eco-fascist and<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the humanist, colonial-speciesist is</span> thus <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a forced choice</span> and is, in reality, a non-choice <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that should be rejected</span>**</span>. The point of proposing the idea of the global suicide of humanity is rather to help identify the way in which we differentially value different forms of life and guide our moral actions by rigidly adhered to standards of life-value. Hence <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the idea of global suicide, through its radicalism, challenges a</span>**</span>n ideological or <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">culturally dominant idea of life-value</span>**</span>. Further, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">through confronting humanist ethics with its own violence against the non-human, the idea of global suicide opens up a space for dialectical reflection in which the utopian ideals of both modern humanist and anti-humanist ethics may be comprehended in relation to each other</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">One possibility of this conflict is the production of a differing standpoint from which to understand the subject and the scope of moral action</span>. From the outset, <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">global suicide throws into question the linkage between life-value and the subject of moral action</span>**</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It proposes a moral question</span>, the first moral question, <span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">which must accompany every human action: Is my life, and its perpetuation, worth the denial of life to others</span>//**</span>.

==Biopolitics K== 

The affirmative proposes the solution to transportation inequality is to provide transportation opportunity; however they miss the relationship of the citizen to the state in transportation inequality – The control of opportunity forms bio-politics.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Richardson and Jensen</span>, 20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">08</span> (Tim and Ole B.,professors of urban theory at Aalborg University in Denmark , “How Mobility Systems Produce Inequality: Making Mobile Subject Types on the Bangkok Sky Train,” Built Environment, Vol. 34, Issue 2, Pages 218-231, May 2008)
Infrastructure, Elite Mobilities and Inequality Manderscheid (2008) argues that ‘<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the ability to be mobile appears to be a very crucial force of stratiﬁcation’</span>. Building on Urry’s identiﬁcation of the relation between multiple mobilities and social strati cation, she calls for attention to ‘<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the complex role mobilitiesplayin the re-articulation of unequal life chances’</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Unequal mobilities are</span>, then, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">at least partly a consequence of unequal power relations</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mobility can be seen as a ‘resource to which not everyone has an equal relationship’</span> (Skeggs, cited in Hannam et al., 2006, p. 3), and <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the control of mobility thereforebecomes an inevitable focus of urban politics</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It then becomes importantto examine more closely how inequalitiesof mobility are produced</span> and manifested in the urban realm, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">by emphasizing ‘the relation between human mobilities and immobilities</span>, and the unequal power relations which unevenly distribute motility, the potential for mobility’ (Hannam et al., 2006). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It is also important to see how this politics of mobility</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as it produces unequal mobilities</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">relates to urban spatial politics</span> more generally: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Differential mobility</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">access to space</span> and inequalities in power to inﬂuence others’ use of space reﬂect the interrelationship between social groups in the city … <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the city is composed of more or less well deﬁ ned social areas each of which is controlled by one or more groups who sustain a moral order there</span>. (Duncan, 2005, p. 165) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">And as the potential for mobility becomes socially polarized, certain elites ‘enjoy’privileged degreesof mobility while others remain more or less immobile</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or unable to control their own mobility</span> (Bauman, 1998). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">From this perspective we begin to see social inequality</span>, in relation to mobility, as being directly related to urban politics and power. However, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we need to proceed cautiously</span>. The perspectives introduced above tend to create a polarized view of mobility/immobility, which assumes differentiated mobility to be intrinsically bad, and therefore implies, perhaps, that a lack of mobility is something that needs to be rectified: a contemporary urban problem. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Thus in mobility terms, social inequality means a lack of potential for mobility</span>, which in turn can lead to a progressive ‘solution’ of ever increasing personal mobility for all. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This reflects a tendency to equate modernity with mobility</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and therefore to see a lack of mobility directly as inequality</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This is highly problematic when set in the context of urgent agendas to move towards more sustainable forms of urban mobility</span>. We therefore pose the question slightly differently here. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rather than seeing inequality in a particular way</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we ask how the state,</span> and other agents of development, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">seek to produce new potentials for, and practices of, mobility that are linked to new mobile subject types</span>. As development is conceived and takes place, new ideas and spaces are fabricated that change, sometimes dramatically, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">how the citizen is seen by the state</span> (Scott, 1998). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The production of a mobility system, then, creates a ‘laboratory’</span> (Urry, 2004) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">thatallows examination of how</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">as new urban interfaces are produced</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">imagined categories of citizens are mediated</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and everyday mobility is practised</span> and experienced in new ways. This corresponds to Cresswell’s (2006) theorization of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">mobility as brute facts</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">representation and embodiment</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This creates a complex terrain for the remaking of inequality</span>, necessitating the question: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">what, in fact, does inequality come to mean in these new mobile spaces, both imagined and material? The research site, then, becomes the material infrastructure of the sociotechnical mobility system</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">which presents an interface between the state and everydaylife</span> (Watson, 2005). We focus squarely then on the material spaces of infrastructure as interfaces across which the dimensions of equality and inequality are reconstituted. Therefore it is important to understand how the material interface ‘between’ the state and the citizen is produced.

Bio-politics is the foundational support for genocide.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Los</span> 20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">04</span> (Maria, Department of Criminology, University of Ottawa, “The Technologies of Total Domination,” Surveillance & Society, Vol. 2, No. 1.)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Foucault’s concept of bio-power</span> (or pastoral power) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">refers to the administration of conditionsand processes of life</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It concerns those mechanisms of powerand knowledgeproduction that focus on life itself</span>, by problematizing it, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">investing in it, shaping it</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">enhancing</span>, maximizing, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and so forth</span> (Foucault, 1979b). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Various areas of human life, such as those constructed as hygiene, sex, diet and reproduction, fall within the domain of bio-politics</span>. Its dark side lies in its potential for disallowing or disqualifying life within the context of care or population enhancement. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This may range from programs of sterilization of mentally ill to decisions about rational use of scarce medical resources</span> to regulation concerning discontinuation of life support <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or euthanasia</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Development of bio-power and bio-politics has been intertwined with the advancement of human sciences</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">such as medicine and psychology</span>. Human sciences tend to construct society through a focus on individual human beings, who have unique needs and are neither expandable nor inter-changeable. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In contrast, scientific totalitarianism relies on a concept of society derived from organic or technical sciences</span> where the parts have no meaning other than being inane components of the whole. The whole has no obligations towards its parts, while the parts have to fulfil their humble roles for the machine or a body to work. Unlike liberal ideology, totalitarianism does not confer any rights (even the right to life) on individuals just because they were born human. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mass movements, which aim at saving humanity</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the race or the people</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">cannot afford to be slowed down by weak or obstructive elements</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hitler made this principle very clear</span> in his 1944 speech to a group of officer cadets: Nature is always teaching us…that she is governed by the principle of selection: that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">victory is to the strong and that the weak must go to the wall</span>. She teaches us that what may seem cruel to us…is nevertheless often essential if a higher way of life is to be attained. Nature…knows nothing of the notion of humanitarianism which signifies that the weak must at all costs be surrounded and preserved even at the expense of the strong (quoted in Krausnick, 1970:29). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Lenin, who saw morality as subordinated to the objective interests of the class struggle of the proletariat, announced in an essay published in 1918 a program of “purging the Russian land of all kinds of harmful insects</span>” (quoted in Solzhenitsyn, 1974:27). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This started a frantic hunt for “parasites” that outlasted him for many decades </span>(see Los, 1988: 89-98). Stalin explained brutal purges within his own Party by likening it to a living organism: “Like every organism, it undergoes a process of metabolism: the old and outworn moves out; the new and growing lives and develops” (quoted in Amis, 2002:167). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Chairman Mao spoke against allowing “political dustand germs to dirty our clean facesor eat into our healthy organisms,”</span> a<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nd he likened the Party to a surgeon who saves the patient by removing his appendix </span>(Mao Tse Tung, 1976: 265, 262). The rituals of mass blood-letting over which these leaders presided were part of grand schemes of social prophylaxis and purification, necessary for production of a better form of life. Purging of the social body did not have to aim precisely at diseased elements, being instead performed as a cleansing ritual, whereby society expels a set amount of matter to revitalize itself. When Stalin liquidated numerous categories of enemies of the people, the victims were often chosen according to the pre-set quota. For instance, in the campaign against kulaks, each village had to name families to be purged even if there were no rich peasant families residing in the area, and in the 1927 campaign against “industrial wreckers,” each factory was obliged to single out some engineers as saboteurs (Solzhenitsyn, 1974:43). Similarly, during the Chinese land reform campaign in the 1950s, at least one million landlords were executed based on certain quota for each district (Taylor, 1993:4). There is, however, a tension between organic and inorganic representations of the society. This is well explained by Lefort: [T]he two images do not fully merge; the image of the body is altered when it comes into contact with that of the machine. The latter contradicts the logic of identification; the communist ‘us’ is itself dissolved… making the social appear at the boundaries of the inorganic… Once the old organic constitution disappears, the death instinct is unleashed into the closed, uniform, imaginary space of totalitarianism (1986: 301, 306). The type of knowledge that appears to thrive under a totalitarian regime is a knowledge that rationalizes death as a resource, facilitates formation of the self-less objects and suppresses alternative knowledges. Both Nazi and Stalinist regimes developed complex technologies of killing as a form of population management. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">They involved intricate mechanisms of selection, regulation, division of labour, economization, ritualization, de-individualization and normalization</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">These were rituals of imprinting complicity in general population, designed to foster moral anaesthesiaand re-definition of human beings as nothing more than transitory clusters of recyclable matter</span>, dispos<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">able parts of the machine</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or a pest</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The process of turning people into “human material</span>” and its macabre relationship to human sciences is well described in a memoir by Dr Nyiszli, a Jewish prisoner of Auschwitz, who saved his life by becoming Dr. Mendele’s assistant: When the convoys arrived, soldiers scouted the ranks lined up before the box cars, hunting for twins and dwarfs… Dr. Mendele wanted to solve the problem of the multiplication of the race by studying the human material – or rather, the twin material (Nyiszli, 1973: 52, 80). The process of killing – carried out largely by prisoner kommandos – was permeated by medical symbols and knowledge. The deadly gas was delivered by Red Cross cars and introduced into the gas chamber by the Deputy Health Officer (p.48). Then a new phase of the exploitation and utilization of Jewish bodies took place… Hair was also a precious material, due to the fact that it expands and contracts uniformly, no matter what the humidity of the air. Human hair was often used in delayed action bombs, where its particular qualities made it highly useful for detonating purposes. So they shaved the dead. …[T]he dead were next sent to the “tooth-pulling” kommando… All members of the kommando were fine stomatologists and dental surgeons (50; emphasis added). In the Gulag, severe Russian climate made possible a symbolic use of the bodies through their continuous, frozen display in the camps and surrounding areas. Solzhenitsyn and other survivors of the Soviet Gulag described how Soviet camp authorities coped with the body-disposal tasks in wintertime when the ground was frozen. “[E]very morning the orderlies hauled the corpses to the gatehouse, stacking them there” (Solzhenitsyn, 1976:112). “The corpses were left unburied. In May they used to decompose – and at that point the “goners” who had survived until then were summoned to cover them up” (115). The climate was also employed in the task of killing, whereby many hungry, exhausted prisoners simply froze to death or were placed in locked death carriages for failing to fulfil their work quota and simply left in them for a day to freeze. The bodies were then tossed out and left in the open (114). Totalitarian practices render the distinction between life and death increasingly blurred, thus necessitating development of new technologies for surveillance and administration of populations of the “living dead.” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Concentration camps, politically induced famine, pseudoscientific experiments, psychiatric punishment</span>- these are all examples of this peculiar condition, in which people are not dead but no longer live. The aim is to annihilate the uniqueness of the human person (Arendt, 1958: 453). Society of Pavlov’s dogs, who can be conditioned on the most basic, biological level, represents both a triumph and a defeat of the totalitarian disciplinary regime. When human disciplines serve to erase the line between life and death, their familiar human subject is turned into an incomprehensible dehumanized body, whose domination is no longer ideologically meaningful.

Thus the Alternative: “Reject the affirmative to rupture bio-political conquest.” Racism is only a tool by which bio-political machines choose who to save and kill. They attempt to justify burning the house as long as you douse it out as well.
Olivera<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> Radovanović</span> 20<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span> ( University of Masaryk, Department of Sociology PhD “Society as a Garden: Justification and Operationalization of Foucaldian “Right to Kill” in the Contemporary World”, http://is.muni.cz/th/236868/fss_m/Ma_Thesis_Olivera_Radovanovic.pdf)
What this means is that, instead of war being the continuation of politics by different means, Clausewitz’s aphorism should be inverted: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it is rather the politics that is the continuation of war by different means</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There is always a war beneath peace</span>, Foucault argues (Ibid.: 51), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">because the state is now allied with its population against the threat constituted as everything that differentiates from the biological norms postulated in that society</span>. (Reid 2008a: 36) Reid argues that “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">an era of biopolitical wars ensues in which populations are constituted via their orientation around racialised norms</span>, enemies are distinguished by their racial differentiation from the norm and wars <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are waged in which populations are mobilized in defense of racial norms against rival populations defined by a perception of racial abnormality</span>.” (2008a: 34) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It is crucial to note here that “race</span>” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">itself is not pinned to a stable biological skincolour</span>-<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">like meaning</span>. (Foucault 2003a: 77) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Originally, the concept of race was simply the matter of two peoples who do not share the same language</span> or religion, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">but are related by a history of violence and wars</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The social body is therefore constituted of single-race which is according to certain virtues split into a super-race and a sub-race</span>. (Ibid.: 60, 61). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The modern state occupied this original discourse of “race war” and inverted it to its own ends</span>. It becomes a discourse of battle between the race that is entitled to establish the norm and those, who deviate from that norm, who present the threat to the biological heritage. (Reid 2008a: 30) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The (racialised) norm therefore represents the way of life in all its multiplicity desired in a concrete society</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">whereas the object which departs that setting automatically threatens to damage the biology</span>, i.e. the existence of that way of life. “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Society must be defended</span>” therefore means that, in addition to self- activism to develop its vitality and maintain “normality”, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the state is obligated to defend its society against the portion of those who diverge from the standard.</span> And here we find the appearance of state racism which will, according to the logic from the previous quote, turn society against itself, against its own elements and its own products. We speak here about the internal racism of social normalization. (Foucault 2003a: 62) A shift from law to norm occurs, as well as a shift from races in the plural to race in the singular and the idea of racial struggle into the one of race purity. (Ibid.: 81) In that respect, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Foucault sees racism as “primarily a way of introducing break into the domain of life that is under power’s control</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the break between what must live and what must die</span>. […] <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It is a way of separating out the groups that exist within a population</span>.” (Ibid.: 254, 255) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Putting the life of species as the target object of security practices of state power allows selecting any form of life perceived to grow degenerative effects within the field of population.</span> (Reid 2008a: 37) Dillon even suggests that the concept of race directly contributes to the triangulation of biopolitics with its “necropolitics”, which “helps strip biopolitics of any assumed innocence in respect of its project of making life live.” (2008: 170) This “necropolitics” or war against “enemies” is not necessarily a confrontation in a military way, but also a form of quiet extermination, carried out by ongoing installation of regulatory techniques. However, war in its real (military) sense of words for causes as such is not excluded either. (Reid 2008a: 37, 38) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Foucault in sum suggests that social body has been involved in the struggle on regular historical bases</span>. The expectation that things could have changed once the lifeprone biopower replaced the death-prone prince proved groundless. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wars and bloodshed have actually never vanished - they sustained, but only changed the rhetoric of their causes</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Once it was the fight on behalf of sovereign life and territory, now it is population’s life and vitality that are at stake</span>.

==Give back the land K== 
The discussion of race creates a diversion to the issue of land rights. They propose that we build racially just transportation infrastructure, but the creation of that is only done on __stolen land__. Their priority of race blankets the discussion of colonial conquest that happened first here in this continent.
WARD <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">CHURCHILL</span>, FORMER PROFESSOR OF ETHNIC STUDIES AT UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO, BOULDER 19<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">96</span> [“I AM INDIGENIST,” FROM A NATIVE SON PGS 520-30]
I’ll debunk some of this nonsense in a moment, but first <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">I want to take up the posture of self-proclaimed leftist radicals in the same connection</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">And I’ll do so on the basis of principle, because justice is supposed to matter more to progressives than to rightwing hacks.</span> Let me say that the pervasive and near-<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">total silence of the Left in this connection has been quite illuminating</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Non-Indian activists</span>, with only a handful of exceptions, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">persistently plead that they can’t really take a coherent position on the matter of Indian land rights because</span> “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">unfortunately</span>,” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they’re “not really conversant with the issues</span>” (as if these were tremendously complex). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Meanwhile, they do virtually nothing</span>, generation after generation, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to inform themselves on the topic of who actually owns the ground they’re standing on</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The record can be played only so many times before it wears out and becomes just another variation of “hear no evil, see no evil.”</span> At this point, it doesn’t take Albert Einstein to figure out that <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the Left doesn’t know much about such things because it’s never wanted to know</span>, or that this is so because <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it’s always had its own plans for utilizing land it has no more right to than does the status quo it claims to oppose</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The usual technique for explaining this away has always been a sort of pro forma acknowledgement that Indian land rights are of course “really important stuff</span>” (yawn), but that one” really doesn’t have a lot of time to get into it (I’ll buy your book, though, and keep it on my shelf, even if I never read it). Reason? Well, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">one is just “overwhelmingly preoccupied” with working on “other important issues”</span> (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">meaning, what they consider to be more important</span> issues). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Typically enumerated are sexism, racism, homophobia, class inequities, militarism, the environment, or some combination of these</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It’s a pretty good evasion,</span> all in all. Certainly, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">there’s no denying any of these issues their due</span>; <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they are all important</span>, obviously so. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">But more important than the question of land rights? There are some serious problems of primacyand priority imbedded in the orthodox script</span>. To frame things clearly in this regard, lets hypothesize for a moment that all of the various non-Indian movements concentrating on each of these issues were suddenly successful in accomplishing their objectives . <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Lets imagine that the United States as a whole were somehow transformed into an entity defined by the parity of its race</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">class, and gender relations</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">its embrace of unrestricted sexual preference</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">its rejection of militarism in all forms</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and its abiding concern with environmental protection</span> (I know, I know, this is a sheer impossibility, but that’s my point). <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">When all is said and done, the society resulting from this scenario is still, first and foremost, a colonialist society</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">an imperialist society in the most fundamental sense possible with all that this implies</span>. This is true because the scenario does nothing at all to address the fact that whatever is happening happens on someone else’s land, not only without their consent, but through an adamant disregard for their rights to the land. Hence, all it means is that the immigrant or invading population has rearranged its affairs in such a way as to make itself more comfortable at the continuing expense of indigenous people. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The colonial equation remains intact and may even be reinforced by a greater degree of participation</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and vested interest in maintenance of the colonial order among the settler population at large</span>. The dynamic here is not very different from that evident in the American Revolution of the late 18th century, is it? And we all know very well where that led, don’t we? Should we therefore begin to refer to socialist imperialism, feminist imperialism, gay and lesbian imperialism, environmental imperialism, African American, and la Raza imperialism? I would hope not. I would hope this is all just a matter of confusion, of muddled priorities among people who really do mean well and who’d like to do better.

Here the Affirmative misses the question of the solution to the problem: because the foundation of their system was based upon the blood and gore of the ‘foreign body’ the Western ideologies have pushed out, their blanketing of Native American destruction and land rights only serve to extent the ideology that ruins their project, inevitably pushing the blame on other scapegoats, and justifying the logic of genocide.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">LEVENE</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2000</span> (MARK, 11.2.2000, U WARWICK, WHY IS THE TWENTIETH CENTURY THE CENTURY OF GENOCIDE?)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The flip side to these national and indeed antinational constructions</span>, however, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">was that they all implicitly assumedthe existence of population groupingswhich not only would not fit the prescribed modelbut which</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in some critical sense, threatened to contaminate it</span>. Again the crystallization of this tendency can be located in European, scientifically informed wisdoms from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. In particular, medical science's "discovery" of deathdealing bacteria and bacilli not only coincided with mass epidemics in the new urban and metropolitan centers but also with new and obsessive Social Darwinian discourses about the "survival of the fittest." <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Fears of communal weakness and febrility thus became associated with anxieties that "foreign bodies</span>" <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">operating from within the body-politic might undermine or contaminate the physical and mental health of the nation</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">leading in turn to further medically informed but supposedly value-free prognostications on how to protect or improve the national stock by eugenics</span> or other programs of social engineering. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">These fin-de-siècle anxieties were a common feature of the western or western-orientated world at large</span>. But they arguably played or were to play more prominent roles among political elites in latecomer states who perceived their national weakness keenly and who sought radical policies to overcome or transcend their limitations. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">One tendency we have already notedwith regard to these elitesis the extreme lengths to which they have gone in order to achieve thesegoals</span>. Another we [End Page 321] should note is <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the tendency to blame supposedly corrupting internal "foreign bodies</span>" <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">whenever these strategies go wrong</span>. The two aspects, indeed, are intimately connected in the sense that by their very effort to attain what is usually unattainable such state strategies are likely to come unstuck, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">leading not only to increased frustrationbut with it the further rationalizationthatthis must be the result of the insider enemy or enemies' conscious sabotaging of the state's heroic not to say Herculean efforts</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Thus, genocide scenarios regularly crystallize in crisis situations in which a regime's conscious effort at break out from its perceived fetters encounters obstacles which recall some previous failure</span>, either of its own or that committed by a predecessor. The classic example, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the Holocaust, whose full-scale implementation began during an early stage of the Nazis' life and death struggle with the Soviet Union in 1941</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">makes no sense without reference back to the previous major crisis of German state and society in 1918-19, in which by popular consent, Jews qua Jews were held to be responsible</span>. By the same token, the Stalinist drive against the "kulaks," Ukrainian and other "ethnic" peasantries, from 1929 to 1933, has to be set against the crisis of revolution and civil war between 1917 and 1921; the Ittihadist extermination of the Armenians in 1915-16, against the repeated crises of Ottoman state from 1878 through the 1890s, culminating in the Balkan wars of 1912-13; the Indonesian military's extermination of the countrywide communist movement (the PKI) in 1965 against the attempted PKI challenge to nationalist rule in 1948; the Rwandese "Hutu Power" extermination of the Tutsi in 1994 against the backdrop of counterrevolutionary efforts to destabilize and destroy the new postcolonial regime in the period 1959-64. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Indeed, the only major example of genocide being perpetrated without notable prequel is the Cambodian Khmer Rouge destruction of ethnic and political groupings from 1975 through 1979, an example which nevertheless points to a quite extraordinary sequence of immediately preceding catastrophes as the grist added to the Khmer Rouge mill.</span> Even with this example, however, what is here termed the perpetrators' "Never Again" syndrome applies: the regime locating in some historic context a communal adversary, or adversaries, supposedly intent on the disruption or sabotage of its transformative-salvationist agenda

Thus the Alternative: Put first-priority on removing the United States from the continent. The decolonization of America is the first stepping-stone in liberation of any kind. The absence of disposition of America from stolen land replaces the chess-piece on the board, forming a new kind of colonialism.
WARD <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">CHURCHILL</span>, FORMER PROFESSOR OF ETHNIC STUDIES AT UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO, BOULDER 19<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">96</span> [“I AM INDIGENIST,” FROM A NATIVE SON PGS 520-30]
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The question which inevitably arises with regard to indigenousland claims</span>, especially in the United States, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is whether they are “realistic</span>.” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The answer, of course is, “No</span>, they aren’t.” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Further, no form of decolonization has ever been realistic when viewed within the construct of a colonialist paradigm. It wasn’t realistic at the time to expect George Washington’s rag-tag militia to defeat the British military</span> during the American Revolution. Just ask the British. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It wasn’t realistic, as the French could tell you</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">that the Vietnamese should be able to defeat U.S.-backed France in 1954</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">or that the Algerians would shortly be able to follow in their footsteps.</span> Surely, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">it wasn’t reasonable to predict that Fidel Castro’s pitiful handful of guerillas would overcome Batista’s regime in Cuba</span>, another U.S. client, after only a few years in the mountains. And the Sandinistas, to be sure, had no prayer of attaining victory over Somoza 20 years later. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Henry Kissinger, among others, knew that for a fact</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The point is that in each case, in order to begin their struggles at all</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">anti-colonial fighters around the world have had to abandon orthodox realism in favor of what they knew to be right</span>. To paraphrase Bendit, they accepted as their agenda, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a redefinition of reality in terms deemed quite impossible within the conventional wisdom of their oppressors</span>. And in each case, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">they succeeded in their immediate quest for liberation</span>. The fact that all but one (Cuba) of the examples used subsequently turned out to hold colonizing pretensions of its own does not alter the truth of this—or alter the appropriateness of their efforts to decolonize themselves—in the least. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It simply means that decolonization has yet to run its course</span>, that much remains to be done. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The battles waged by native nations in North America to free themselves</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and the lands upon which they depend for ongoing existence as discernible peoples</span>, from the grip of U.S. (and Canadian) internal colonialism <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">are plainly part of this process of liberation</span>. Given that their very survival depends upon their perseverance in the face of all apparent odds, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">American Indians have no real alternative but to carry on</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">They must struggle, and where there is struggle here is always hope</span>. Moreover, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the unrealistic or “romantic” dimensions of our aspiration to quite literally dismantle the territorial corpus of the U.S. state begin to erode</span> when one considers that federal domination of Native North America is utterly contingent upon maintenance of a perceived confluence of interests between prevailing governmental/corporate elites and common non-Indian citizens. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Herein lies the prospect of long-term success</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It is entirely possibly that the consensus of opinionconcerning non-Indian “rights” to exploit the land and resources of indigenous nations can be eroded</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and that large numbers of non-Indians will join in the struggle to decolonize Native North America. Few non- Indians wish to identify with or defend the naziesque characteristics of US history</span>. To the contrary most seek to deny it in rather vociferous fashion. All things being equal, they are uncomfortable with many of the resulting attributes of federal postures and actively oppose one or more of these, so long as such politics do not intrude into a certain range of closely guarded self- interests. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This is where the crunch comes in the realm of Indian rights issues</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Most non-Indians</span> (of all races and ethnicities, and both genders) <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">have been indoctrinated to believethe officially contrived notion that</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in the event “the Indians get their land back,” or even if the extent of present federal domination is relaxed</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">native people will do unto their occupiers exactly as has been done to them</span>; <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">mass dispossession and eviction of non-Indians</span>, especially Euro-Americans is expected to ensue. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hence even progressives who are most eloquently inclined to condemn US imperialism abroad and/or the functions of racism and sexism at home tend to deliver a blank stare or profess open “disinterest” when indigenous land rights are mentioned</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Instead</span>of <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">attempting to come to gripswith</span> this most fundamental of all <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">issues</span> the more sophisticated among them seek <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">todivert discussions into “higher priority”</span> or “more important” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">topics like “issues ofclass and gender equality</span>” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in which “justice” becomes synonymous with a redistribution of power</span> and loot deriving from the occupation of Native North America even while occupation continues. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Sometimes, Indians are even slated to receive “their fair share” in the division of spoils accruing from expropriation of their resources</span>. Always, such things are couched in terms of some “greater good” than decolonizing the .6 percent of the U.S. population which is indigenous. Some Marxist and environmentalist groups have taken the argument so far as to deny that Indians possess any rights distinguishable from those of their conquerors. AIM leader Russell Means snapped the picture into sharp focus when he observed n 1987 that: so-called progressives in the United States claiming that Indians are obligated to give up their rights because a much larger group of non-Indians “need” their resources is exactly the same as Ronald Reagan and Elliot Abrams asserting that the rights of 250 million North Americans outweigh the rights of a couple million Nicaraguans. Leaving aside the pronounced and pervasive hypocrisy permeating these positions, which add up to a phenomenon elsewhere described as “settler state colonialism,” the fact is that the specter driving even most radical non-Indians into lockstep with the federal government on questions of native land rights is largely illusory. The alternative reality posed by native liberation struggles is actually much different: While government propagandists are wont to trumpet—as they did during the Maine and Black Hills land disputes of the 1970s—that an Indian win would mean individual non-Indian property owners losing everything, the native position has always been the exact opposite. Overwhelmingly, the lands sought for actual recovery have been governmentally and corporately held. Eviction of small land owners has been pursued only in instances where they have banded together—as they have during certain of the Iroquois claims cases—to prevent Indians from recovering any land at all, and to otherwise deny native rights. Official sources contend this is inconsistent with the fact that all non-Indian title to any portion of North America could be called into question. Once “the dike is breached,” they argue, it’s just a matter of time before “everybody has to start swimming back to Europe, or Africa or wherever.” Although there is considerable technical accuracy to admissions that all non-Indian title to North America is illegitimate, Indians have by and large indicated they would be content to honor the cession agreements entered into by their ancestors, even though the United States has long since defaulted. This would leave somewhere close to two-thirds of the continental United States in non-Indian hands, with the real rather than pretended consent of native people. The remaining one-third, the areas delineated in Map II to which the United States never acquired title at all would be recovered by its rightful owners. The government holds that even at that there is no longer sufficient land available for unceded lands, or their equivalent, to be returned. In fact, the government itself still directly controls more than one-third of the total U.S. land area, about 770 million acres. Each of the states also “owns” large tracts, totaling about 78 million acres. It is thus quite possible—and always has been—for all native claims to be met in full without the loss to non-Indians of a single acre of privately held land. When it is considered that 250 million-odd acres of the “privately” held total are now in the hands of major corporate entities, the real dimension of the “threat” to small land holders (or more accurately, lack of it) stands revealed. Government spokespersons have pointed out that the disposition of public lands does not always conform to treaty areas. While this is true, it in no way precludes some process of negotiated land exchange wherein the boundaries of indigenous nations are redrawn by mutual consent to an exact, or at least a much closer conformity. All that is needed is an honest, open, and binding forum—such as a new bilateral treaty process—with which to proceed. In fact, numerous native peoples have, for a long time, repeatedly and in a variety of ways, expressed a desire to participate in just such a process. Nonetheless, it is argued, there will still be at least some non-Indians “trapped” within such restored areas. Actually, they would not be trapped at all. The federally imposed genetic criteria of “Indian –ness” discussed elsewhere in this book notwithstanding, indigenous nations have the same rights as any other to define citizenry by allegiance (naturalization) rather than by race. Non- Indians could apply for citizenship, or for some form of landed alien status which would allow them to retain their property until they die. In the event they could not reconcile themselves to living under any jurisdiction other than that of the United States, they would obviously have the right to leace, and they should have the right to compensation from their own government (which got them into the mess in the first place). Finally, and one suspects this is the real crux of things from the government/corporate perspective, any such restoration of land and attendant sovereign prerogatives to native nations would result in a truly massive loss of “domestic” resources to the United States, thereby impairing the country’s economic and military capacities (see “Radioactive Colonialism” essay for details). For everyone who queued up to wave flags and tie on yellow ribbons during the United States’ recent imperial adventure in the Persian Gulf, this prospect may induce a certain psychic trauma. But, for progressives at least, it should be precisely the point. When you think about these issues in this way, the great mass of non-Indians in North America really have much to gain and almost nothing to lose, from the success of native people in struggles to reclaim the land which is rightfully ours. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The tangible diminishment of US material power which is integral to our victories in this sphere stands to pave the way for realization of most other agendas from anti-imperialism to environmentalism, from African American liberationto feminism</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">from gay rights to the ending of class privilege – pursued by progressive on this continent</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Conversely, succeeding with anyor even all of these other agendaswould still represent an inherently oppressive situation in their realization is contingent upon an ongoing occupation of Native NorthAmerica without the consent of Indian people</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Any North American revolution which failed to free indigenous territoryfrom non-Indian domination would be simply a continuation of colonialism in another form</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Regardless of the angle from which you view the matter</span>, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the liberation of Native North America, liberation of the land first and foremost, is the key to fundamental and positive social changes of many other sorts</span>. One thing they say, leads to another. The question has always been, of course, which “thing” is to the first in the sequence. A preliminary formulation for those serious about achieving (rather than endlessly theorizing and debating), <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">radical change in the United States might be “First Priority to First Americans”</span> Put another way this would mean, “<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">US out of Indian Country</span>.” <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Inevitably, the logic leads to what we’ve all been so desperately seeking: The United States – at least what we’ve come to know it – out of North America altogether</span>. From there it can be permanently banished from the planet. In its stead, surely we can join hands to create something new and infinitely better. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">That’s our vision of “impossible realism.”</span> Isn’t it time we all went to work on attaining it?