<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On the affirmative, we will post 1AC cites and 2AC cites by request. On the negative We will post NEG strategies after every tournament, and any cites by request. Please email us at jmill126@gmail.com for cite requests.</span>


[[toc]]
=Next Gen Affirmative= 
==1AC—Griffin/Lincoln County== 

===**Plan**=== 

Plan Text: The United States federal government should fund the Federal Aviation Agency’s Next Generation program.

===Advantage 1—Aviation=== 

Government cuts now will push back the implementation of NextGen a decade

Levin 8/13 [Allan, Bloomberg Business Week, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-08-13/automatic-cuts-would-hurt-air-traffic-industry-says, /jmill]
Automatic U.S. government-spending cuts scheduled to take effect next year

AND

at as many as 106 airports, the study by Scott Lilly said.
Next Gen is key to the aviation industry – it's vital to economic growth

Kramer 12

[Hillary Kramer, stock broker, financial contributor to Forbes and several other news organizations, BA from Wellesley College, 5/22/12, http://www.forbes.com/sites/hilarykramer/2012/05/22/building-the-runway-to-the-skies-of-tomorrow/]

It seems that these days, the general public is a bit weary of commercial

AND

I make it safely, happily and more efficiently to our arrival gate.
Economic growth solves terrorism—empirics prove

Gries, Krieger, and Meierreks, 2011

[Thomas, Time, and Daniel, Univ. of Paderborn Dept. of Economics, “Causal Linkages Between Domestic Terrorism and Economic Growth.” Defence and Peace Economics, Vol. 22, Issue 5, 493-508, Accessed Online via Taylor Francis Online] /WFI-MB
The results of our Hsiao-Granger causality analysis indicate that economic factors - at

AND

negative effects of terrorism by increasing markets and institutions’ resiliency to terrorist attacks.
Terrorism causes retaliation that guarantees extinction

Morgan 9

Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus – South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct), accessed 9-16-2011,WYO/JF
In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question “Is

AND

remnant, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter

Lack of a national policy on aviation collapses Heg– Long-term funding solves

Checchio 11

Robert A Checchio, Vice President, Legislation Affairs, Mid-Atlantic Aviation Coalition, Aviation Policy and Economics Researcher, 11, [“CRISIS IN THE SKY: THE CHALLENGES OF DEVELOPING A UNITED STATES NATIONAL AVIATION POLICY,” Ph. D. Thesis, http://mss3.libraries.rutgers.edu/dlr/outputds.php?pid=rutgers-lib:31018&mime=application/pdf&ds=PDF-1]
Why is this dissertation important? Without the guidance that a national policy might provide

AND

The following sections examine more closely some of the key issues facing policymakers.
And, heg is key to prevent great power nuclear wars

Zhang and Shi, 2011 (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)
This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it

AND

forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.


===Advantage 2—Environment=== 

Airport congestion due to poor technology leads to more disorganization, wasted money, and more emissions.

NATS 12

[National Air Traffic Services – organization consisting of one thousand engineers and 13,000 support staff manages air traffic control and navigation services], 2012 “More than just a timekeeping issue.” http://www.nats.co.uk/nats-services/issues/issue-congestion/
Congestion is the most visible consequence of operational inefficiency at an airport. Even the

AND

efficient systems and technology to get things up and running again, faster.
No alt causes – NextGen solves other transportation emissions and air pollution

NEXA 11(NEXA Advisors, April, NEXA Capital Partners provides corporate and strategic financial advisory services, and capital investment, to the aerospace, transportation, logistics and homeland security sectors, “NextGen Equipage Fund Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues”, http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf)
In 2008 GAO advocated accelerated deployment of NextGen to realize environmental benefits. xv More

AND

will also improve international flight efficiencies, further reducing emissions and greenhouse gasses.
Air pollution causes extinction

Driesen 3 (David, Associate Professor – Syracuse Univeristy Law, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, Fall/Spring, Lexis)
Air pollution can make life unsustainable by harming the ecosystem upon which all life depends

AND

precautionary basis to ensure that humans can life a healthy and productive life.
Their authors are funded by the fossil fuel industry and should be dismissed – prefer peer-reviewed studies

Davies 8 – Author and Geophysicist at the Australian National University, 6/11/08 [Dr. Geoff Davies, Science Alert, “Why listen to scientists?” http://www.sciencealert.com.au/opinions/20081106-17474.html]
Professor Don Aitkin’s recent promotion of the “sceptical” view of global warming and

AND

that his judgments from two or three decades ago are being broadly vindicated.
NextGen solves through increased efficiency—reduces flight time and optimizes fueling preventing unneeded emissions

SNS 11 (State News Service, Forefront of news reporting, 2/28, “AVIATION NOISE AND AIR QUALITY SYMPOSIUM”, Lexis)
NextGen is also helping us to improve efficiency and to provide benefits through the

AND

U.S. to meet aviation transportation needs of the 21st century.

===Contention 2 - Solvency=== 

The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.

ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. [June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]
Invest in NextGen to AND standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.
Federal investment spurs industry adaption and overcomes all current stalemates
Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]
The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is

AND

that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.
Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers

Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]
Most US operators have been less than enthusiastic about paying for NextGen equipage because the

AND

not been enough to counter the continuing risk across the larger industry.37

==1AC—Chattahoochee== 

===**Advantage 1 - Economic Growth**=== 
We solve economic growth – two ways.
Scenario 1 – Aviation Industry

Next Gen is key to the aviation industry – it's vital to economic growth

Kramer 12

[Hillary Kramer, stock broker, financial contributor to Forbes and several other news organizations, BA from Wellesley College, 5/22/12, http://www.forbes.com/sites/hilarykramer/2012/05/22/building-the-runway-to-the-skies-of-tomorrow/]

It seems that these days, the general public is a bit weary of commercial

AND

I make it safely, happily and more efficiently to our arrival gate.

And, status quo congestion independently wrecks our economy

Guy 10 [Ann Brody Guy, College of Natural Resources, UC Berkley, October 18, 2010 “Flight delays cost $32.9 billion, passengers foot half the bill” (http://newscenter.berkeley.edu/2010/10/18/flight_delays/]
The cost of domestic flight delays puts a $32.9 billion dent into

AND

.S. gross domestic product (GDP) by $4 billion.

Economic decline increases the risk of war—strong statistical support.

Royal 10 (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict

AND

not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.
Scenario 2 – Tech Leadership

NextGen is key to our tech leadership

Halsey 9/12 [Ashley, “NextGen air traffic control system behind schedule and over budget” http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/trafficandcommuting/nextgen-air-traffic-control-system-behind-schedule-and-over-budget/2012/09/12/bedab104-fd07-11e1-8adc-499661afe377_story.html]
With the volume of air traffic projected to almost double during the next two decades

AND

place, NextGen will be a good return on investment,” he said.
Tech Leadership key to our competiveness

Segal, 4 – Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations (Adam, Foreign Affairs, "Is America Losing Its Edge?" November / December 2004, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html

The United States' global primacy depends in large part on its ability to develop new

AND

, the United States must get better at fostering technological entrepreneurship at home.
And, failure to restore U.S. competitiveness crushes U.S. primacy—the impact is global war

Khalilzad, Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 2011

Zalmay, National Review, “The Economy and National Security,” February 8, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?pg=2, last accessed 5.25.12

Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to

AND

, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions.
==== ==== 

===**Advantage 2 - UAV's**=== 

UAV’s use will grow – their turns are nonunique – BUT current ATC can’t sustain them because we lack integration
Conniff 11 (Richard, a frequent contributor to Smithsonian, “Drones are Ready for Takeoff”, June, Smithsonian Magazine, http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science-nature/Drones-are-Ready-for-Takeoff.html?c=y&story=fullstory)

The problem, AND

, requiring “a lot of cultural change” and more reliable technology.

And NextGen’s availability of information makes integration possible

Lacher et al., 10

Andrew Lacher, Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Integration Lead and Research Strategist in MITRE's Center for Advanced Aviation System Development, et al., Andrew Zeitlin, David Maroney, Kelly Markin, Duane Ludwig, and Joe Boyd, 2-1-10, [“Airspace Integration Alternatives for Unmanned Aircraft ,” Presented at AUVSI's Unmanned Systems Asia-Pacific 2010, www.mitre.org/work/tech_papers/2010/10_0090/]
While accommodating new types of aircraft is an explicit goal of NextGen [54],

AND

capabilities and integration requirements are included in the NextGen concept development and evolution.
And the huge surge of Unmanned Aircraft Systems production overwhelms your link arguments – NextGen is the only way to solve

Cox et al., 12

Vicki Cox, Senior Vice Presidesnt, NextGen, et al., lots of people in the FAA, DoD, NASA, and other, 3-15-12, [“Next Generation Air Transportation System Unmanned Aircraft Systems Research, Development and Demonstration Roadmap,” Joint Planning and Development Office, http://www.jpdo.gov/library/20120315_UAS%20RDandD%20Roadmap.pdf]

According to industry forecasts, UAS operations will increase exponentially in a variety of key

AND

but they will ultimately enable seamless integration of UAS in the NextGen NAS.
We have two impacts ---

First, pyroterrorism. UAS systems are key to fight and contain forest fires

Moose 8 [Robert G. Moose, Major, USAF, 12-08, [“COVERING THE HOMELAND: NATIONAL GUARD UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS SUPPORT FOR WILDLAND FIREFIGHTING AND NATURAL DISASTER EVENTS,” Naval Postgraduate School, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA493900]]

The benefit UAS assets can provide to the civil authorities in assessing the damage caused

AND

efficiently, reducing costs, property damage, and personnel injury/death.

Pyroterrorism is coming now – It’s as bad as nuclear weapons, collapses the economy, readiness, and legitimacy

Bendle 8 [Mervyn F. Bendle, PhD, is senior lecturer in History and Communications at James Cook University, Queensland Summer 08, [“Australia’s nightmare: bushfire jihad and pyroterrorism,” NATIONAL OBSERVER (Council for the National Interest, Melbourne), No. 79, Summer 2008/09, pages 8-22, http://www.nationalobserver.net/pdf/2009_australias_nightmare_bushfire_jihad_and_pyroterrorism.pdf]
A recent review of the historical data reveals that pyroterrorism has been on the rise

AND

values and institutions — precisely, in fact, as the pyroterrorists planned.
Second, Pakistan. Creating more successful drones are key to curb insurgency in Pakistan.

Bergen and Tiedemann 11 – (July/Aug. 2011, Peter Bergen and Katherine Tiedemann, “Washington’s Phantom War,” Foreign Affairs,http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67939/peter-bergen-and-katherine-tiedemann/washingtons-phantom-war?page=show)
Despite the drone program’s shortcomings, it is likely to continue-put simply,

AND

once said, the drone program is “the only game in town.”
Growing insurgency in Pakistan causes terrorism, state collapse, and global nuclear war
Pitt 9 [William Pitt 9, New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence.", 5/8/09, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) ]
But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep

AND

to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.
Pakistan collapse supercharges global terrorism

Blankley 09, [April 15, 2009. Tony Blankley served as press secretary to then Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, Newt Gingrich. “A Nuclear Talibanistan?” Real Clear Politics.com. <http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/04/15/a_nuclear_talibanistan_48923.html>] sebastian

Our view of Pakistan's role in the war in Afghanistan has undergone an ominous but

AND

, we are left with a policy of temporizing and crossing our fingers.

Terrorism causes retaliation that guarantees extinction

Morgan 9

Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus – South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct), accessed 9-16-2011,WYO/JF
In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question “Is

AND

remnant, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter





=Negative= 
==Strategies== 
===Griffin=== 

**Round 2 vs. Wheeler SM (Carbon Pipelines --- Heg & Warming)**
1NC—Environmental Impact Statement CP, Obama Good DA, Security K, Case Defense
2NC—Environmental Impact Statement CP, Obama Good DA, Security K
1NR—Case Defense
2NR—Security K

**Round 4 vs. Cairo AD (Bicycles --- Econ & Warming)**
1NC—Environmental Impact Statement CP, Auto Tradeoff DA, Security K, Case Defense
2NC—Environmental Impact Statement CP, Auto Tradeoff DA, Security K
1NR—Case Defense
2NR—Security K

===Lincoln County=== 

**Round 2 vs. Carrollton MW (Hydrogen Fuel Pumps)**
1NC—Topicality-Infrastructure, China Fund CP, Obama Good DA, Urban Sprawl DA, case defense
2NC—China Fund CP, Urban Sprawl DA
1NR—Obama Good DA, Case Defense
2NR—China Fund CP

**Round 4 vs.**

===Chattahoochee=== 

**Round 2 vs. Alpharetta HS (Next Gen -- Econ & Heg)**
1NC—Environmental Impact Statement CP, Obama Good DA, Security K, Heg Bad, Case Defense
2NC—Environmental Impact Statement CP, Obama Good DA, Security K
1NR—Case Defense
2NR—Security K

**Round 3 vs. Alpharetta CK (Next Gen -- Econ & Heg)**
1NC—China Fund CP, Obama Good DA, Schmitt K, Heg Bad, Case Defense
2NC—China Fund CP, Obama Good DA, Case Defense
1NR—Schmitt K
2NR—Schmitt K

**Round 5 vs. Johns Creek GX (Next Gen -- Oil & Warming)**
1NC—China Fund CP, Obama Good DA, Security K, Case Defense
2NC—China Fund CP, Case Defense
1NR—Obama Good DA
2NR—China Fund CP, Obama Good DA

__Round 2 v. Johns Creek JN (Duck & Cover)__

1NC – T-United States Federal Government (Fiat Good), T-Investment (Physical Assets), Fiscal Cliff DA, Ballot K, case
2NC – T-United States Federal Government (Fiat Good), T-Investment (Physical Assets), Ballot K, case
1NR – Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR - T-United States Federal Government (Fiat Good)

Round 5 v. Alpharetta SN (Next Gen – Heg & Econ)
1NC – China Fund CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, case
2NC – China Fund CP, case
1NR – Fiscal Cliff DA
1NR – China Fund CP, case