=Affirmative= 
**1AC Long Beach**

==Inherency== 
**Contention 1 is We Will Be Mauled**
====U.S. is critically short of icebreakers while other countries are ramping up production==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Knovel </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">1/10/</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Knovel is a collection of thousands of engineers and applied scientists worldwide representing 74 of the Fortune 500 companies and more than 300 leading universities.“http://why.knovel.com/all-engineering-news/1167-us-icebreaking-technology-lacking-as-ships-charge-toward-nome-alaska.html”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. is AND upgrade aging technology. </span>


====Icebreakers aren’t being built now – the Plan is key to solve==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NDIA </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2/13/</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Defense Industrial Association—America's leading Defense Industry association promoting National Security. “http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=671”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Coast Guard AND budget document says.</span>


**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its icebreaker fleet in the United States.**

==Advantage== 
**Our Advantage is The Bear**
====The icebreaker fleet is key to U.S. presence and sovereignty in the Arctic==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Heritage </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">12/9/</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Heritage Foundation is a think tank focusing on national defense. Contributed a significant amount of The Great Ronald Reagan’s policies as president.“http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone-icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States AND is falling behind. </span>


====U.S. naval presence blocks Russian Arctic territory claims and the time to act is now==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Colbert 7/25/12</span> (James, policy director at the Jewish Institute for National Security Affairs, Washington. “http://www.defensenews.com/article/20120715/DEFFEAT05/307150002/U-S-Pacific-Focus-Needs-Include-Arctic”)
No fewer than AND time to lose.

====Russian officials told us they’re going to expand==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">US Naval Institute </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">8/10/</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Research and write about the U.S. Navy and threats to it’s naval superiority. Obvi.“http://news.usni.org/news-analysis/news/russia-plans-massive-arctic-expansion”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia plans to AND overall naval capability. </span>


====Russia’s continued existence depends on Gazprom’s extraction of resources from the Arctic==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fin </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2/13/</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Al, writer for oilprice, an energy news site that contributes energy analysis to Business Insider and Forbes. “http://oilprice.com/Energy/Natural-Gas/Gazproms-Future-Dependent-on-Arctic-Energy-Riches.html”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The continued existence AND that Moscow experiences. </span>


====Qualified experts agree with us==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Østhagen </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">3/27/</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andreas, an analyst for the Norwegian/EU Arctic policy on Arctic Oil and Gas. Holds a Master of Science degree in Politics and Government from the London School of Economics and a B.A. in Political Economy from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. He is currently working as an advisor at the North Norway European Office in Brussels, while also taking part in the Arctic research programme 'Geopolitics in the High North' through his affiliation with the Norwegian Institute for Defence Studies (IFS). “http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/03/to-drill-or-not-to-drill-arctic.html”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other AND sluggish regional economies. </span>


====The Plan stops Russia - russian economic collapse collapses its military==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Deutsche Well </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">4/16/</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">12 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Germany’s international broadcaster, or in better terms the BBC with beer and lederhosen.“http://www.defense-aerospace.com/article-view/feature/134469/financial-crisis-cuts-world-military-spending.html”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Russia primarily needed AND countries," he said.</span>


====Russia is revisionist and conflict is inevitable==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chandler ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Robert, PhD in political science, former political strategist with the Air Force, Defense Department and the CIA, Shadow World: Resurgent Russia, the Global New Left, and Radical Islam, pg 59- 61)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia looms as AND with the West.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1 is US-Russia War</span>**



====They have to prove that the Union collapsed, conflict is inevitable –any change in our mindset and military strategy causes Russian first strike==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Skousen 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—political scientist, by training, specializing in the philosophy of law and Constitutional theory. Former Chairman of the Conservative National Committee. Editor-in-chief of the World Affairs Brief (Joel, Canceled European Missile Defense Signals New Disarmament Race To War, 25 September 2009, http://www.rense.com/general87/cancel.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Certainly, the apparent AND administration so worrisome. </span>


====US-Russian nuclear war is the only existential risk==== 

**FRUMKIN AND HELFAND 2012**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Howard Frumkin, MD, DrPH, School of Public Health, University of Washington; Ira Helfand, MD, Physicians for Social Responsibility, “A Prescription for Survival: Prevention of Nuclear War,” American Journal of Preventive Medicine, March, Science Direct)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The arsenals of AND could become extinct. </span>


====Bioweapons will be used==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Christopher Ruddy, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 5: Russia’s Recent Military Build-up,” NEWSMAX, March 15, 1999, http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/14/193145.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Nyquist states that AND employ such weapons.</span>


====<span class="StyleCards12ptThickunderlineChar1">Bio-weapons use goes global, triggering nuclear WWIII and then killing off all the survivors </span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alexander, Former Scottish Editor of Burke’s Peerage, B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies, 2k7 (Timothy, October 22nd, “War On Iran = You Die from Biowar”, Op Ed News, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.opednews.com/articles/genera_lord_sti_071020_war_on_iran__3d_you_di.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We have been AND their own lives.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2 is Russian Expansionism</span>**

====It triggers multiple scenarios for extinction==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Blank</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago,</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">9</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen J., “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Proliferators or nuclear AND their own people. </span>


====And independently collapses NATO==== 

<span class="verdana">Dmitry **Sidorov**, RusData Dialine - Russian Press Digest, October 8, **2008**. “Anti-Russian defense system” LexisNexis.</span>
<span class="verdana">The influential nongovernmental AND allies for it.</span>

====Collapse of NATO causes superpower nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">John </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">O'Sullivan</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, editor of the National Review and founder of the New Atlantic, 6-19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">98</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [American Spectator] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Some of those AND of European stability.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 3 is Oil</span>**




==== ==== 
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russian expansionism causes oil spikes</span>**

Mark N. **Katz**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of government and politics at George Mason University; B.A. in international relations from the University of California at Riverside, M.A. in international relations from the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, Ph.D. in political science from M.I.T.; former positions: research fellow at Brookings Institution, Soviet analyst at the State Department, Rockefeller Foundation IR fellow, Kennan Institute research scholar,</span> December **2008**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“IMPLICATIONS OF THE GEORGIAN CRISIS FOR ISRAEL, IRAN, AND THE WEST” Middle East Review of International Affairs, Vol. 12, No. 4. http://digilib.gmu.edu:8080/dspace/bitstream/1920/5585/1/Meria_katz_Dec_2008.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia's quick victory AND than Moscow would.</span>


====**Oil price spike collapses the global economy**==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Kenneth M. **Pollack** (Director of Research at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. From 1995 to 1996 and 1999 to 2001, he served as Director for Persian Gulf Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council) 2003 “ Securing the Gulf “</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">America's primary interest AND with everybody else's. </span>


====Nuclear War==== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214]</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is AND deserves more attention. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 4 is Georgia</span>**

====Russia will re-invade Georgia==== 
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A. Wess Mitchell, Co-Founder of the Center for European Policy Analysis, “Stiffening the Russian Reset,” REALCLEARWORLD, 7-6-09,</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://realclearworld.com/articles/2009/07/06/stiffening_the_russia_reset_96881.html]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And herein lies AND invading Georgia again.</span>


====Not only does this conflict go nuclear, the probability and magnitude of our impact outweigh that of all other hotspots.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rick Rozoff, frequent contributor to Global Research, Baltic Sea: Flash Point For NATO-Russia Conflict, Feb 27, 2009, http://groups.yahoo.com/group/stopnato/message/37592.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">In such an AND Baltic Sea region.</span>





















=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]