[[toc]]
=Notes= 
Reppin' #Xylum
Email aubtinh@gmail.com for notes. Neil doesn't do anything.. fyi
Cites will be up soon
=Affirmative= 
Cites up soon, topical aff will be Disabilities with either a Butler influence.

Our other aff's will include an Agamben aff cut around profanations (criticizes sacred rituals in debate and affirms the resolution as an act of profanation), Deleuze (completely non-topical), and a Mass Transit Neoliberalism aff.

Don't be surprised if we get up there and dick around for 8 minutes.

==Ableism aff== 

===Contention 1 is Ability=== 

**This year’s topic tasks us with constructing transportation infrastructure and therefore public space. The economic, political and environmental consequences of such will be tirelessly impacted out in debates but most rounds will exclude discussion on the way infrastructure and policies affect the lives of oppressed people. Identity is intimately tied with laws and physical space; cultural norms and architecture reinscribe static hegemonic notions of body, sexuality and gender by transforming these systems into a public spectacle**
**This is most true in the context of disability; disability is not defined by physical and mental impairments opposed to supposed ‘normal’ functions but rather is a socio-ontological state that is imposed upon groups through cultural norms, laws, and physical space.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Imrie University of London Geography Professor 2000</span>
(Rob Imrie, January 6, 2000 Environment and Planning A 2000, volume 32, Disability and discourses of mobility and movement [[http://www.envplan.com/abstract.cgi?id=a331]] pg. 1652 accessed 7-6-12 BC)
The inequities of mobility and movement are connected to sociocultural values and practices which prioritise
AND
in addition, see Abberley, 1987; Paterson and Hughes, 1999).
In this paper, I argue that assumptions of unrestricted movement and mobility in contemporary
AND
for challenging the hegemonic discourses of the body, mobility, and movement.


**Ableism is thus a performative establishment of relationships to ‘disabled bodies’ through a process of marking oppositional bodies according to arbitrary forms of productivity and civility established through states of exception. This underlies all forms of oppression and mass death; All oppressive systems operate by isolating and eliminating people with traits deemed inferior and deviant. Only by reconceiving how disabled bodies appear can we begin to undo the underlying justification for all forms of violence against disqualified populations.**
**Siebers 2010**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> (Tobin, professor of English, University of Michigan, Disability Aesthetics, pgs 23-28)</span>
Disqualification as a symbolic process removes individuals from the ranks of quality human beings,
AND
represents at this moment in time the final frontier of justifiable human inferiority.
**Notions of Ableness are founded in a desire for the ontological security of the masculinist self. The able body’s status as the sovereign subject relies on the unspeakability of disability - Bodies are de/reterritorialized within ableist paradigms where abnormality becomes a non-tology. Material change is never enough as the ableist project is continually replicated through inclusion and mastery into hegemonic structures.**
**Campbell 2008** [ Fiona Kumari Convenor of the Disability Studies major in the School of
AND
Refusing Able(ness): A Preliminary Conversation about Ableism
Georges Canguilhem (69) states “every generality is the sign of an essence
AND
truth-claims are dependent upon discourses of ableism for their very legitimization.

===Contention 2 is Precarity=== 

**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">The ableist ‘self’ craving for mastery is constructed in direct opposition to the vulnerable disabled body. Precariousness is constitutive of all life as everyone is virtually disabled, interrupting the masculine logic of ableism. Our affirmation embraces our constitutive vulnerability through the politics of grievability - reframing our relationship toward ableism and disability in a profound and political way. </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Goggin 2009</span>__** [Gerard Goggin. Researcher at the University of New South Wales, Australia. 2009. “Disability, Media, and the Politics of Vulnerability<span style="font-size: 12px;"> Issue No.19, June 2008/July 2009 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12px;">11, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12px;">Asia Pacific Media Educator</span>
I have argued that conceptions of vulnerability and media remain problematic and narrow, and
AND
the broken, fragile, and still hopeful nature of whom we are.

**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">The ableist ontology creates a spectrum of understanding the other that makes it possibility to ignore grieving the loss of the other. This begins the possibility of mass killing of the other.</span>**
<span class="articleauthor">**__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">McGuire</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;"> 2010</span>__**[</span>Anne, Dept. Sociology And Equity Studies In EducationOntario Institute For Studies In Education, University Of Toronto Disability, Non-Disability And The Politics Of Mourning: Re-Conceiving The 'We'Disability studies quarterly, [[@http://dsq-sds.org/issue/view/47|Vol 30, No 3/4 (2010)]]> [[@http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/1282/1309|McGuire]]
With "nothing else to be," Walker's life — the life of cognitive disability
AND
it is made more vulnerable, more exposed to the possibility of violence.

**This hierarchy of bodies justifies war – violence is only the solution because our goals can make casualties invisible.**
Judith <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Butler</span>, Professor of Rhetoric at UC Berkeley, “Frames of War”, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2009, </span>Page 52 (BJN)

The body, in my view, is where we encounter a range of perspectives
AND
once), an exposure that is the condition of sociality and survival alike.




<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Thus our advocacy</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Harrisonburg HM affirms that the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure accessibility investment. We’ll clarify</span>**

===Contention 3 is the Framing=== 

**We will defend that the plan is a good idea in the abstract, but our affirmation is more than just a symbolic gesture roleplaying state action, our 1AC speech act is a form of discourse analysis that interrupts ablenoromative epistemology and reveals the ways hegemonic power structures were produced. The question of corporeality is not a matter of logistical deliberation but relies on continual interrogation of the ableist ontology.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Campbell 2003</span>**//(Fiona Anne, , 2003, “The Great Divide: Ableism and Technologies of Disability Production”, Dissertation,// [[http://eprints.qut.edu.au/15889/1/Fiona_Campbell_Thesis.pdf|//http://eprints.qut.edu.au/15889/1/Fiona_Campbell_Thesis.pdf//]]//, accessed 6/29/12, JK)//

The danger otherwise is to continue to reproduce dominant discourses that represent people with disabilities
AND
to and thus focusing our attention on the practices and formations of ableism.

**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">The aff’s calling of the precariousness of life is a prior epistemological and ontological question of the makeup of the social body that imposes an obligation preceding other political questions. How we frame our politics is intimately bound to the relationship we establish with the other. This debate is the most probable area of productive discussion about politics, </span>****<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">providing a unique forum for interrogating ableist representations which help rethink ways disability is represented.</span>****<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;"> This is the most important impact of the debate. </span>**
JUDITH **__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">BUTLER 2009</span>__**//Frames of War// When Is Life Grievable? ISBN-13: 978-1-84467-333-9 1-4
On the one hand, I am seeking to draw attention to the epistemological problem
AND
crafting power, and which limits the finality of any of its effects.

**As __students__ participating in political debates we have an __obligation__ to put disability at the __center__ of our discussion of democracy because what we debate about here says a lot about __human conduct__ on a larger scale—this is __not a meta-theoretical quibble__ but central to change the way that disability is __represented__ and __conceived__** **writ large**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Michael </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Bérubé, ‘3</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring, [[http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506]])</span>
Of course, many of us would prefer to believe that our children have intrinsic
AND
which is to say, for the good of all of us.

==Graffiti Aff== 
**We live in a world of concrete jungles and mile long labyrinths. The urban is shaped immensely by a transportation infrastructure that organizes space to direct movements and facilitates the flow of capital. This is the world of the resolution that has built the city in the name of progress, but progress for whom? The status quo is not democracy. A truly democratic politics must be based upon the identification with The People which cannot speak. The exclusion of voices from the political sphere creates a police order of inequality.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ranciere 2001</span> (Jacques, Prof. Phil @ European Graduate School, “Ten Theses on Politics,” Theory and Event 5:3 Muse Online)CJQ
The 'people' that is the subject of democracy -- and thus the principal subject of
AND
social (ac)counts and an exception to all logics of domination.

**Graffiti is the investment in new forms of cultural development and alteration of physical space – it is a smooth space of representation that can alter the experience of transportation. Graffiti can bring the excluded back into the social – it destratisfies institutional control of flows and creates a thirdspace that can reorganize spatial practices which often relegates the minority and excluded to the places not seen by the public.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bowen 13</span> (Tracey Bowen, University of Toronto, Rhizomes, Issue 25, 2013, [[http://rhizomes.net/issue25/bowen/index.html]], axheyd)

[1] Graffiti is the visual residue of a spatialized performance that speaks to
AND
connections; they are grounded in the curiosity and desire for unpredictable experiences.


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Using graffiti as thirdspace reconceptualizes spatialization practices that recreate exceptionalism. Only this methodological approach can deconstruct the Western spatiality from its assumed binaries and decolonizing our epistemologies. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Campbell ’08 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Neil, postmodern writer, The Rhizomatic West: Representing the American West in a Transnational, Global, Media Age, July 1st, 2008)</span>

Near the end of Postmodern Geographies, Edward Soja argues for the ben­efits of critical
AND
ways even more importantly, linking these concepts back to earlier American predecessors.

**Graffiti reappropriates transportation – it turns the commercial and rational organization of space into a rhizomatic canvas, something that can disrupt the spectacle of capitalism which tries to structure the urban in the name of efficiency and limit when and where we can see the explosive potential of art.**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Fraser and Spalding 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Benjamin Fraser, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Assistant Professor of Spanish. Department of Hispanic studies · school of languages, cultures & world affairs · the college of Charleston. Managing editor, Arizona Journal of Hispanic Cultural Studies, Steven d. Spalding, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Bachelor of Arts, Connecticut College, 1993 Master of Arts, Université de Paris VIII-Vincennes Saint-Denis, 1995 Doctor of Philosophy, University of Michigan, 2003, “Trains Culture and Mobility,” page 48, axheyd)</span>

Even if it is a planned activity by a group, train graffiti is opposed
AND
the ordered design of ration landscapes that subtends the intellectual approach to space.


**And prefer our affective politics that focuses on method rather than ends. Our interaction with both graffiti and the resolution can disrupt the dominant orders that try to control space and subjugate oppressed individuals**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Phil, Phil Smith is a UK based artist, performer and teacher, specialising in performance related to walking. At present he is engaged in research at the University of Plymouth (UK) on the effectiveness of performance and performative interventions in touristic and heritage spaces."Tourists/Terrorists – Useful Ambiguities in a Search for Models", Rhizome magazine, axheyd)</span>

[1] A discussion about models of 'ideal', resistant, small group organisation
AND
that some of the most effective policing of geographical power is carried out.

**Graffiti functions as a unique discourse of anti-structure – a step away from the restrictive and controlling nature of the state apparatus. Graffiti allows for identity affirmation and anonymous coalition building that evades authoritarian control of public and private space**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bartolomeo 1</span>**(Bradley J. Bartolomeo, B.S. (Psychology) Additional Major in Anthropology, “Cement or Canvas: Aerosol Art & The Changing Face of Graffiti in the 21st Century,” [[http://www.graffiti.org/faq/graffiti-is-part-of-us.html#Graffiti_as_a_form_of_Public_and_Political_Resistance|http://www.graffiti.org/faq/graffiti-is-part-of-us.html#Graffiti_as_a_form_of_Public_and_Political_Resistance]], axheyd)

A visually salient, though often artistic and creative manner of resistance, graffiti inherently
AND
is only one type of discourse by which these negative sentiments are expressed.

**The radical possibility for anonymous coalition building is the only way to challenge state hegemony. Traditional leftist politics have lost the potential to create change because the state marks them out and renders them an empty signifier creating only enough change to be completely worthless. The invisible politics of graffiti can radically disrupt the system that has co-opted so many movements in the past.**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The Invisible Committee 2009</span>** (an anonymous group of French intellectuals. The coming insurrection.)
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
In a demonstration, a union member tears the mask off of an anonymous person
AND
some of this society’s somebodies illustrates why there’s such joy in being nobody.


**And, our affirmation of immanent identity can avoid the failures of past movements and reinvent politics. Instead of an engagement that tries to capture and contain our subjectivity we instead affirm an unpredictable affective politics that comes from nowhere and everywhere – one that leaves the elites scratching their heads.**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Goddard 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; [[http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm]], axheyd)</span>


What this type of radio achieved most of all was the short-circuiting of
AND
being necessary, at the present stage to outline projections of societal change.”


**Thus Harrisonburg HM affirms that: The United States federal government should increase graffiti on its transportation infrastructure.**

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">It isn’t helpful to think of the state as supreme and cunning to justify disengagement—it’s more important to identify methods of challenging oppression, including considerations of using the state in anti-state ways</span>**
Gilles **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Deleuze</span>**, “Toward Freedom” published in The Deleuze Reader, ed. Constantin V. Boundas, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">1993</span>**, p.255-256
The mistake would be to say: there is a globalizing State, the master
AND
revolutionary-becoming of people, at every level, in every place.


**Graffiti is more than delinquency – its poetic terrorism. We are a theatre of cruelty with no stage or seats – it’s the individual’s way of implanting little desiring-machines that unravel and connect. Urban space has gone bland – give the masses something to think about. The ballot is an advocacy and our approach to public space is that of the Anarchitect. No one thinks twice about a subway map but if you draw gnomes that redirect the paths to somewhere else you have disrupted the state’s organization of space.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bey 85 </span>(Hakim Bey, The Temporary Autonomous Zone, Ontological Anarchy, Poetic Terrorism, Poetic Terrorism, http://hermetic.com/bey/taz_cont.html)
WEIRD DANCING IN ALL-NIGHT computer-banking lobbies. Unauthorized pyrotechnic displays.
AND
, but don't get caught. Art as crime; crime as art.

**Don’t be a victim of Miserablism, accepting our inability to create change. We understand that we don’t have our hands on the levers of power; however, we do have immediate relationships to the ways that we relate to politics. Thus, your ballot isn’t useless; Voting affirmative has the ability to engage in creating an immanent place in politics, temporary autonomous zones where we can reclaim our agency round by round.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kaw Valley Surrealist Brigade 12</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> (Demand the Impossible!, January 21, 2012, [[http://kawvalleysurrealistbrigade.wordpress.com/]], axheyd)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Miserablism has taken over.</span>____<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> But why? Because we have let it. </span>__
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">It won’t be easy, but it sure will be fun.</span>__

=Negative= 

Death Good
Bataille (Multiple versions)
Deleuze
Heidegger
Nietzsche
Mann
Baudrillard
Zupancic
Speculative Realism
Situationalism
We'll reserve the right to read Borges or Burroughs and proceed to talk about nothing

==Poems== 

While some would consider this to fall under Kritiks, I gave it it's own category. While different poems make different arguments each poem usually fits a specific general argument. I'll include the 2NC stuff later, but for the most part it's analysis of the poem, lots of Land, Heidegger, or Dark Mountain Project evidence depending on the poem, and some specific link/impact work.


===Whitman - What is the Grass?=== 

**A child said, What is the grass? Fetching it to me with full**
**hands;**
**How could I answer the child?. . . .I do not know what it**
**is any more than he.**

**I guess it must be the flag of my disposition, out of hopeful**
**green stuff woven.**

**Or I guess it is the handkerchief of the Lord,**
**A scented gift and remembrancer designedly dropped,**
**Bearing the owner's name someway in the corners, that we**
**may see and remark, and say Whose?**

**Or I guess the grass is itself a child. . . .the produced babe**
**of the vegetation.**

**Or I guess it is a uniform hieroglyphic,**
**And it means, Sprouting alike in broad zones and narrow**
**zones,**
**Growing among black folks as among white,**
**Kanuck, Tuckahoe, Congressman, Cuff, I give them the**
**same, I receive them the same.**

**And now it seems to me the beautiful uncut hair of graves.**

**Tenderly will I use you curling grass,**
**It may be you transpire from the breasts of young men,**
**It may be if I had known them I would have loved them;**
**It may be you are from old people and from women, and**
**from offspring taken soon out of their mother's laps,**
**And here you are the mother's laps.**

**This grass is very dark to be from the white heads of old**
**mothers,**
**Darker than the colorless beards of old men,**
**Dark to come from under the faint red roofs of mouths.**

**O I perceive after all so many uttering tongues!**
**And I perceive they do not come from the roofs of mouths**
**for nothing.**

**I wish I could translate the hints about the dead young men**
**and women,**
**And the hints about old men and mothers, and the offspring**
**taken soon out of their laps.**

**What do you think has become of the young and old men?**
**What do you think has become of the women and**
**children?**

**They are alive and well somewhere;**
**The smallest sprouts show there is really no death,**
**And if ever there was it led forward life, and does not wait**
**at the end to arrest it,**
**And ceased the moment life appeared.**

**All goes onward and outward.... and nothing collapses,**
**And to die is different from what any one supposed, and**
**luckier.**

*Walt Whitman "A child said, What is the grass?"
[[http://allpoetry.com/poem/8451695-A_child_said__What_is_the_grass_-by-Walt_Whitman]]

==Kritiks== 

===Assemblage Theory/DeLanda Kritik=== 

====1NC Kritik==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Their abstract totalities try to homogenize complex multifaceted institutions and fail to address the complexity of power structures</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Read 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jason, Assistant Professor of Philosophy at the University of Southern Maine, “The Full Body: Micro-Politics and Macro-Entities”, review of DeLanda, Manuel (2006) A New Philosophy of Society: Assemblage Theory and Social Complexity, Deleuze Studies. Volume 2, Page 220-228, axheyd)</span>


In response to this tendency, DeLanda makes the focus of his project an attempt
AND
of various scales, from those that constitute the individual to global networks.

**The 1AC project of describing the world through systematic totalized systems that can explain all aspects of reality lead to totalitarian control and recreate oppressive institutions**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pelevin ‘2</span>
(Victor, post-Soviet science fiction author, Buddhist scholar Interview, BOMB Magazine Issue 79, Spring 2002, [[http://www.bombsite.com/issues/79/articles/2481]], axheyd)

VP Since it happened a long time before I started to write, there’s no
AND
ideas, but rather from the hypnotism of the entire order of things.


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Our alternative is to reject their representation of homogenous monocausual system of power – their discourse and policy practices need to be called into question in order to reshape institutions</span>**
**Manuel DeLanda, 1997**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Adjunct Associate Professor – Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation – Columbia University, A Thousand Years of Nonlinear History, p. 266-274</span>
When we think that the majority of equations used in science are linear and that
AND
destinies," not the death of humanity and its potential for destratifications.19


====1NC Policy==== 

**The 1ac predictions are Linear shots in the dark --- these questions are __extraordinarily difficult__ to __ascertain accurate information__ about—biases and __limited context__ prefigure __flawed interpretations__ of __incomplete data sets__.**
**Bernstein et al, 2k**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Steven Bernstein., Richard Ned Lebow, Janice Gross Stein and Steven Weber**,** University of Toronto, The Ohio State University, University of Toronto and University of California at Berkeley**. “**God Gave Physics the Easy Problems”European Journal of International Relations 2000; 6; 43.)</span>

Wars - to continue with the same example - are similar to chemical and nuclear
AND
different in a logical sense when done in past or future time.5

**This belief in our ability to manage any risk has bottled massive amounts of danger in extra-ordinary complex arrangements—this situation becomes most ominous when we consider a widespread willful disregard for quests to situate our actions and perceptions in new and innovative directions.**
**Peat, 08****<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">theoretical physicist, Ph.D., founder of the Pari Centre for New Learning (F. David, “Gentle Action: Surviving Chaos and Change”, http://www.gentleaction.org/library/paper2.php)</span>

Many rapid changes that are taking place around us. These include globalization, developments
AND
change and engage in those actions that are appropriate to each new situation.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Our alternative is to reject their representation of homogenous monocausual power systems – their discourse and policy practices need to be called into question in order to reshape institutions</span>**
**Manuel DeLanda, 1997**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Adjunct Associate Professor – Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation – Columbia University, A Thousand Years of Nonlinear History, p. 266-274</span>
When we think that the majority of equations used in science are linear and that
AND
destinies," not the death of humanity and its potential for destratifications.19



===Heidegger Kritik=== 

**Transportation planning is grounded in a desire for conquest over space and time, which severs the things around us from their connection to the world. Our surroundings are enframed as standing reserve—mindless resources to be manipulated and discarded at the whim of human consumption.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Malpas 2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Jeff. Prof of Phil at U of Tasmania, “Uncovering the Space of Disclosedness: Heidegger, Technology, and the Problem of Spatiality in Being and Time.” Heidegger, Authenticity, and Modernity: Essays in Honor of Hubert L. Dreyfus. Volume 1. MIT Press, pp. 205-207shree)</span>

Of all the ways in which modern technology has brought about a transformation in the
AND
always presupposes hidden-ness), is itself covered over by technological revealing.

**Eclipse of Being outweighs the annihilation of humanity and the destruction of the earth**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zimmerman 93</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Michael E. Zimmerman, Professor of philosophy at The University of Tulane, Contesting Earths Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity. Page 119-120)</span>

Heidegger asserted that human self-assertion, combined with the eclipse of being,
AND
and unknown species are somehow lessened because they were never disclosed by humanity.

**The alternative is to vote negative to endorse a mode of thinking that allows entities to be in their self-showing ethos instead of resolving them through the framework of the subject and will.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Scott 90</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Charles E.; Edwin Erle Sparks Professor of Philosophy at Pennsylvania State University; The Question of Ethics; Indianapolis: Indiana University Press; 1990; p. 203-208 </span>shree)

In the context of the question of ethics, Heidegger's thought is a region of
AND
transformation that develops is a process of which they find themselves a part.


===Corporeality Kritik=== 

**Ableism is an ontological paradigm that always places the disabled body outside of discussions of the normal human subject. The status of bare life is necessary to maintain the ableist system – which remains true even in reformist attempts.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">[[@http://journal.media-culture.org.au/index.php/mcjournal/article/viewArticle/46/0|Campbell]] 2008</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [ Fiona Kumari Convenor of the Disability Studies major in the School of Human Services, Griffith University. Existing in distant relation to //Terra Abled//, she inhabits the zone of peripheral subjectivities (crip, queer, south Asian and Jewish). Fiona is interested in ways technology and law create and recite disability. She is currently working on her first book //Contours of Ableism//. M/C Journal, Vol. 11, No. 3 (2008) - 'able' [[@http://journal.media-culture.org.au/index.php/mcjournal/index|Home]]>[[@http://journal.media-culture.org.au/index.php/mcjournal/issue/view/able|Vol. 11, No. 3 (2008)]]Refusing Able(ness): A Preliminary Conversation about Ableism</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Georges Canguilhem (69) states “every generality is the sign of an essence, and every ....... </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Disability’s truth-claims are dependent upon discourses of ableism for their very legitimization</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>

**The alternative is critique - analyzing the rhetoric of the 1AC interrupts the ablenoromative epistemology reveals the ways hegemonic power structures were produced. The question of corporeality is not a matter of logistical deliberation but relies on continual interrogation of the ableist frame. Refuse to be complicit with their violent system**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Campbell 2003 </span>**(Fiona Anne, , 2003, “The Great Divide: Ableism and Technologies of Disability Production”, Dissertation, [[http://eprints.qut.edu.au/15889/1/Fiona_Campbell_Thesis.pdf]], accessed 6/29/12)

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The danger otherwise is to continue to reproduce ......... disability is known by continually returning to and thus focusing our attention on the practices and formations of ableism.</span>

===Frienemies Kritik=== 

**Their universalist approach to identity/dichotomy is more repressive to the Other**
**Thorup, 06** – Ph.D. dissertation @ the Institute of Philosophy and the History of Ideas (Mikkel, January, 2006, “In Defence of Enmity – Critiques of Liberal Globalism,” p. 123-124)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">At the end of the war and beyond, ..........cosmos/chaos system organized in post-nation states versus the others.</span>

**This utopian power political denial of enmity invites annihilation and perpetual warfare.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Harris 4</span> – Essayist for Policy Review (Lee, Policy Review is one of America's leading conservative journals. It was founded by the Heritage Foundation and was for many years the foundation's flagship publication. In 2001, the publication was acquired by the Stanford, California-based Hoover Institution, though it maintains its office on Washington, D.C.'s Dupont Circle. “Civilization and its Enemies”, [[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1260214/posts]]__<span style="color: #000099;">)</span>__

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is why</span> __all utopian projects__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">are set either ......</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">gangs to the threat of nuclear annihilation.</span>

**The alternative is to draw lines in the sand – Instead of attempting to unify and help the other, we should use differences to ground the political**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brown 7</span><span style="color: #1a1718;"> – Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics and Political Science (Chris, </span><span style="color: #0e0e0e;">“The International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt: Terror, Liberal War, and the Crisis of Global Order” 2007, </span><span style="color: #1a1718;">Fellow in International Relations at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, and also teaches Inter- national Relations at the University ‘L’Orientale’ in Naples, Italy</span><span style="color: #0e0e0e;"> p. 60-61)</span>

<span style="color: #1a1718; font-size: 10.6667px;">The line of argument here is immediately, if superficially, familiar: ......two maritime powers whose commitment to the jus publicum Europaeum was highly qualified in the case of the UK, non-existent in the case of the US.</span>

===Death K (Short)=== 

**The affirmative approaches the world with the __tautological rationality of viviocentrism__ – that is life-centeredness. Viviocentrism is a noble lie that informs all aspects of their advocacy and it is the same binary logic of natural mastery that justifies racism, sexism, anthropomorphism, etc. Opening our minds to death allows a transcendence of the tyranny of life and creates the conditions for the ultimate erosion of all borders and conceptions of the natural – put the burden on them to justify physical existence as a roll for the ballot**
Mitchell **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Heisman</span>** (The opposite of a bullshitter, suicide practitioner, & University at Albany bachelor's degree in psychology) <span style="font-size: 16px;">20**10**</span>
[__Suicide Note__, online @ http://www.suicidenote.info/, loghry]

There is a very popular opinion that choosing life is inherently superior to choosing death. <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">....... Only when the will to live itself is civilized, can one be free to acknowledge that reason itself does not dictate a bias towards life</span>.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">’</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">s</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">moral</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">obligation</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">take</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">action</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">overcome</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">life-centeredness:</span>**
Mitchell **<span class="CiteBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heisman</span></span>** (The opposite of a bullshitter, suicide practitioner, & University at Albany bachelor's degree in psychology) <span class="CiteBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">20**10**</span></span>
[__Suicide Note__, online @ http://www.suicidenote.info/, loghry]

The conventional distinction between life and non-life is an extension of anthropomorphism.
AND
such environments can be incompatible or opposite for different organisms or different species.

===Negative Peace Kritik=== 


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">The so called “peace” brought about by security politics is really nothing but the hypermodern imperial legislation of an infinite war. Negative peace is simply the demilitarization of this ongoing war—a deceptive illusion that assumes a universal perspective of power in order to create a meta-politics where peace is merely a permanent state of exception in the continuation of war by other means.</span>**</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">**Alliez and Negri 2k3** </span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Éric Alliez and Antonio Negri “Peace and War” Theory Culture Society 2003 20: 109 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">http://tcs.sagepub.com/content/20/2/109</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> [M Leap] </span>

WAR AND PEACE: in its classical-modern form, the conjunction of war
AND
which peace is deduced as the institution of a permanent state of exception.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Conceptualizing war as an event creates crisis-control politics that obfuscates the continued legacy of state-sponsored violence going on every day. This ethic prevents mobilization against structural forms of violence</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">—</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">every singular “war” the affirmative hopes to prevent will just reappear __over and over again__</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Cuomo 96</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Christine, Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence”, Hypatia, Vol. 11, Iss. 4, Fall, Proquest)</span>

Theory that does not investigate or even notice the omnipresence of militarism cannot represent or
AND
the "war on crime," and other state-funded militaristic campaigns.

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The alternative is to __reject the affirmative’s problem-solving approach__ in favor of a __critical interrogation of peace__. The __ontological stability__ that the affirmative takes for granted results in __widespread violence__—__critical intervention__ is needed.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Oliver P. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Richmond</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, Professor of International Relations at the University of St. Andrews, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2007</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (“Critical Research Agendas for Peace: The Missing Link in the Study of International Relations,” //Alternatives: Global, Local, Political//, Volume 32, Issue 2, April-June, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Political Science Complete, p. 250-251)</span></span>
Though there are many different terms for war in the English language, peace remains
AND
of peace indicates it should be qualified as a specific type among many.



===Queer Theory Kritik=== 

**The affirmative’s obsession with life is a symptom of futurist compulsory reproduction. This type of thinking is heterosexist and fascist, leading to the idea that queers are not worthy of being part of society.**
**Edelman**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, Professor of English Literature , </span>20**04**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>
(Lee, __No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive__, pp. 74-76, JCE)

<span class="underline">This conflation of homosexuality with the radical negativity</span> of sinthomosexuality<span class="underline"> ........</span> Eve with the other-constitutes, as the film makes clear, a response to an appeal, even if his mode of response is intended to strike us as unappealing.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Compulsory Heterosexuality is the logic of discrimination which materializes into violence against everyone who is incompatible with their world view. Everyone is at risk. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">**Gómez**, Political theorist on Hate Crimes, 20**05**</span> (María Mercedes, On Prejudice, Violence, and Democracy, la-buena-vida.info, ongoing project from 2005 until 2008, pp. 2-3, JAR)

**__The logic of discrimination seeks to maintain “the other” ...........__** or defined as gay, lesbian, and transgender.

**The Alternative is to Queer Identity: Queering must embrace unintelligibility. We must prevent ourselves from being known, demeaning ourselves and embracing the inhuman suffering that has been projected onto the singled out queer. This alone prevents the violence of signification.**
**Edelman**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, Professor of English Literature , </span>20**04**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>
(Lee, **__No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive__**, pp. 106-109, JCE)

But what if it didn't? <span class="underline">What if Antigone, .........</span>" to have one, must turn its face.

===Queer Pessimism=== 

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Their discourse of security, the environment and transportation infrastructure is inexplicably tied to the dominant social order of the heternormative nuclear family. This logic exploits the ‘virgin’ lands and perpetuates eco-destruction.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Anderson 11 </span>**Jill E. Anderson "THE GAY OF THE LAND: QUEER ECOLOGY AND THE LITERATURE OF THE 1960S"A Dissertation Presented for the Doctor of Philosophy Degree The University of Mississippi, April 2011
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The politically sanctioned (and culturally applied) policy of containment is the ....... </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> queer ecocriticism of the destruction of natural resources and abuse of the land itself.</span>__**

**The alternative is abject rejection – there is no space for the queer within their social order – queerness is ontological dereliction, a void in the coherency of the subject – only negativity can reconstitute the socio-symbolic**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Lee Edelman</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. No Future: Queer Theory and Death Drive. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2004</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> pp. 4-6</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Rather than rejecting</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, with liberal discourse, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">......... </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">challenge to the very value of the social itself.</span>__

===Irigaray Kritik=== 

**Liberal democratic norms understand individuals from the standpoint of an external universal, requiring that subjects must sacrifice their specificity in order to become citizens. The erasure of sexual difference produces politics as nothing more than crowd control.**
**Caldwell in 2** (Anne; prof polis ci @ U of Louisville; “Transforming Sacrifice: Irigaray and the Politics of Sexual Difference”; //Hypatia// Vol 17 No 4 pp. 16-39; MUSE)
How does Irigaray see the logic of sacrifice working out politically in liberal democracies ......o**__nly be “crowd control,” the form of power suited for an undifferentiated citizenry__**.

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">**The alternative is the adoption of a sexed universal -** </span>**An ethics of sexual difference forms the basis for all encounters with Others. We must recognize that our sex means we can never complete ourselves as representative of humans, we can only encompass half of humanity at best. This originary ethics is foundational.**
**Schwab in 98** (Gail, Diacritics 28.1, p 76-92, sexual difference as model: an ethics for the global future, project muse)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For Irigaray, </span>**__the way out of the impasse is through the labor of the negative, conceived not as the negation of otherness within the ......__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The negative is in each of us as the finitude of gender, and its activity plays out in the space between differently constituted subjects.</span>

===Nietzsche Nonsense=== 

====1NC – Extinction==== 
**We seriously don't know what they keep worrying about or why they are so afraid of death. Everything ends, no one is immortal – chill out and actually live a little. The affirmative’s resentment of insecurity drives them to attempt and order a safer world**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Der Derrian 98</span>** [James, Watson Institute research professor of international studies at Brown University, “The Values of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, JSTOR]
Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's interpretations of security through a genealogy ...... or a state of consciousness is confused with its causes." 41

**Chaos is an intrinsic part of life – the affirmative denies this as it lashes out against the inevitable suffering inherent in existence**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Saurette 1996 </span>**[Paul, “I mistrust all systemizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory, Journal of International Studies vol. 25 No. 1 ]
According to Nietzsche, the philosophical foundation of a society is the set of ideas...... <span class="DebateUnderline">and ordered in relation to the ascetic truth of the real world as Nietzsche suggests.</span>

**The affirmative’s obsession with perfection is life-negating – the eternal struggle against entropy reduces life to mere empty existence**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kain</span>**, professor of philosophy at Santa Clara, 20**<span style="font-size: 16px;">07</span>** [Philip J., “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence,” //Journal of Nietzsche Studies 33 (2007),// 49-63]
Why is it best never to have been born? Because <span class="DebateUnderline">all we can expect as human beings is to suffer</span>. .... suffering for no reason at all. That cannot be changed—it can only be concealed.

**The alternative is to embrace the tragedy of the status quo – only by embracing the inevitability of extinction can we affirm the vibrancy of life**
Joanne **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Faulkner</span>**, University of New South Wales, 20**<span style="font-size: 16px;">08</span>** [//The Journal of Nietzsche Studies// Spring/Autumn]
We could envisage a style of subjectivity responsive to the innocence of ......<span class="DebateUnderline"> we participate in a complex web of interactions through which our agency is bounded and context dependent.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Micropolitics K</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">**Suspend the Resolution – Hold out for the affective moment before the action/solution proposed by the Aff – the alternative of Aesthetic differentiation allows us to extend the creative tension of the problem while suspending any resolution of it or choice about it** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Massumi ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Brian Massumi, author, MIT Press book editor, and French translator, being interviewed by Joel McKim, “Of Microperception and Micropolitics: An Interview with Brian Massumi, 15 August 2008,” section on Micropolitics: Exploring Ethico-Aesthetics, //Inflexions: A Journal for Research-Creation//, No. 3. October 2009, p. 11-12, www.inflexions.org) [M Leap]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">BM: I agree that the potential is there, but I don’t agree that it’s inherent to affective politics. ................: a cross-fertilization of capacitations that live out to the fullest the intensity of the event of their coming together. JM: It’s more usual to speak of politics in terms of the need for a common language.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">**This affective micro-political differentiation is superior to their macro-political view from nowhere – their illusions of universal communication and mastery attempt to form consensus for action which is always bankrupt – our immanent practice of critique is the starting point of the political; you should participate in the practices of ‘becoming’ and ‘dissensus’ rather than being a judge of what is** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Massumi ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Brian Massumi, author, MIT Press book editor, and French translator, being interviewed by Joel McKim, “Of Microperception and Micropolitics: An Interview with Brian Massumi, 15 August 2008,” section on Micropolitics: Exploring Ethico-Aesthetics, //Inflexions: A Journal for Research-Creation//, No. 3. October 2009, p. 12-14, www.inflexions.org) [M Leap]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> BM:</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> I just don’t think that the possibility of a common language .........this kind of immanent critique that actively alters conditions of emergence. It engages becoming, rather than judging what is.</span>

===Preemption/Massumi Kritik=== 

**Their politics uses unknown possibilities as justifications for changes in the present- these threats are virtual and are unable to be contested**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Massumi 5</span>** (Brian, professor in the Communication Department at the Université de Montréal, “Fear (The Spectrum Said)”, Positions, 13.1, TBC 6/29/10 Project Muse p. 35-6, axheyd)
The necessity for a pragmatics of uncertainty to which the color system alerts us is
AND
, it is perhaps best characterized as infra-temporal rather than transtemporal.


**By acting on fear rather than threat the plan affectively produces the impacts of their fear – turning the case and guarantying never-ending war**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Massumi 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> (Brian, Professor of Communication Sciences @ University of Montreal, “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Pre-emption”, Pg. 18-20, Project Muse, axheyd)</span>
Fear is always a good reason to go politically conditional. Fear is the palpable
AND
preemptive war with an in-built tendency to be never-ending.




**Our alternative is to reject the aff’s scenario planning simulation to break down the affective moment of threat and preemption. That opens up political space for non-preemptive methods of policy.**
**McClanahan 9**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Annie Mcclanahan is a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Humanities Center at Harvard University, where she is working on a book project titled Salto Mortale: Narrative, Speculation, and the Chance of the Future.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Annie McClanahan. "Future’s Shock: Plausibility, Preemption, and the Fiction of 9/11." symploke 17.1 (2009): 41-62. Project MUSE. Web. 15 Sep. 2012. <http://muse.jhu.edu/>.</span>

Giving substance to the abject horror of today’s preemptive post-9/11 futurity
AND
imagination can only begin by intervening in the futurity of our present.17
===Paths/Object-Oriented Ontology K=== 

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Paths of movement are not neutral but rather an organizing tool that determines and solidifies diagrams of power. The affirmative’s description of transportation infrastructure as supplement to ecological processes perpetuates inequalities.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bryant 12</span>**(Levi R. prof of philosophy, Collin College University of Dundee “Paths” <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/05/12/paths/#more-6132|http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/05/12/paths/#more-6132]]</span>,axheyd)
A couple months ago I wrote a post on Marx’s triad of
AND
hierarchies remain largely the same because the ecology of no humans hasn’t changed.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The alternative is to reconceptualize. Their frame is too abstract - it lock us into an artificial conceptual stasis. Our machinic rhetoric gives way to lines of flight to escape transportation fascism.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kuswa 4 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12px;">(Kevin, PhD Communications, California State University, Fresno Department of Communication “Machinic Rhetoric, Highways and Interpellating Motions” Rhizomes Issue 8 (Spring 2004) JTB)</span>
[11] Interpellation is a critical outline of the material and constitutive properties of
AND
by other entities, and a circulating process of (ex)change.

**This activism can challenge state policies – the 1NC affirms a __militant pluralist assemblage__ that challenges transportation inequality, vulture capitalism, and harmful consumption practices that disrupt the ecology.**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Connolly ’12</span>** William E. Connolly, Krieger-Eisenhower Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, “Steps toward an Ecology of Late Capitalism,” Theory & Event, Vol. 15, Issue 1, 2012, Muse
3. Today, perhaps the initial target should be on reconstituting established patterns of
AND
, role performance, cultural ethos, market regulation, and citizen activism.

===Situationalism Kritik=== 

**Refuse the 1AC call to engineer the infrastructure of pointless misery in the name of a false future. Life lives in the present and making thought economic only serves as a rationalization for enslaving existence. Abandon the perverse calculations of the cure-all politics of the 1AC and re-claim this space of debate by an insistence on pleasure indifferent to the misery of others and the genocidal attempt to perfect society in the image of the Eternal Good. Vote negative to affirm a pleasure without goal, a becoming without end**

**Vaneigem ‘79**, Raoul, situationist philosopher, leading thinker in the Situationist International “The Book of Pleasures” trans. John Fullerton, 1983 [[@http://www.scenewash.org/lobbies/chainthinker/situationist/vaneigem/bop/bop.html|http://www.scenewash.org/lobbies/chainthinker/situationist/vaneigem/bop/bop.html ]] , axheyd, shout out to Edmund Zagorin)


Freedom has no worse enemy than these cure-all panaceas which claim to transform society..... the commodity. Life erupting has kicked a breach in your death-oriented civilisation.

===Gravity Qritiq=== 

**There is gravity everywhere, collision and separation everywhere. Language is the original big bang that created the universe and the church of the fascist. Gravity led to atomization, which reproduces energy into shaped forms that prevent sublimation—the processes of becoming which give value to existence. Time itself will find its end and even death will die. Debates are not repetitive games but creative zones where universes are made and collide. Language can be produced and destroy itself, and in its destruction does the visceral surface. We need to contemplate and embrace mass death in order to understand our own role in the process of dying. Only when the disaster speaks through us can we truly live our death and thus give meaning to the fundamental character of our existence. Formlessness is not death but solace – reject their mausoleum of dead Gods and let us not die but become in the disaster of the 1AC. 1% chance that we can become the beauty of existence will always outweigh.**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Aima 2k9</span>** (Rahel, Columbia University, in the beginning was the language, and the language was gravity, April 13, 2009, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://killingdenouement.wordpress.com/2009/04/13/in-the-beginning-was-the-language-and-the-language-was-gravity/#comments|http://killingdenouement.wordpress.com/2009/04/13/in-the-beginning-was-the-language-and-the-language-was-gravity/#comments]]</span>, axheyd)

__In the beginning was the language, and the language was gravity. Before the__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>...........<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__When human we exist in relation to everything else through the forces of gravity and language, but having escaped from this primordial prison, we are finally irrational, ex-tinctual and free__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

===Mortal Kombat Kritik=== 

**Vote negative to imagine the following: The [aff actor] should ban [plan]**

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Their self-image as heroic actors masks our collective role in the cause of violence, sending us down a path of total self-destruction. We must condemn ourselves and recognize the value of evil - imagining</span> acts of violence turns us from false heroes to conscious destroyers - allowing us to confront internal drives towards cruelty without killing people in real life.**

<span class="cite">**Itzkowitz 99** </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Kenneth, Department of Philosophy, Marietta College, “To witness spectacles of pain: The hypermorality of Georges Bataille,” College Literature, Winter, 1999, axheyd)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">In the end,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">hypermorality asks us to encounter our aspirations to evil</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">, ……</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> account the cruelty that lies at the heart of us all. </span>

===Paths K=== 

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Paths of movement are not neutral but rather an organizing tool that determines and solidifies diagrams of power. The affirmative’s description of transportation infrastructure as supplement to ecological processes perpetuates inequalities.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bryant 12</span>**(Levi R. prof of philosophy, Collin College University of Dundee “Paths” <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/05/12/paths/#more-6132|http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/05/12/paths/#more-6132,]]</span>axheyd)
A couple months ago I wrote a post on Marx’s triad of
AND
hierarchies remain largely the same because the ecology of no humans hasn’t changed.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The alternative is to reconceptualize - the frameworks we use shape the debate and its policies. Their frame is too abstract - the rhetoric they use when discussing transportation systems lock us into an artificial conceptual stasis. Our machinic rhetoric gives way to lines of flight to escape transportation fascism.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kuswa 4 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12px;">(Kevin, PhD Communications, California State University, Fresno Department of Communication “Machinic Rhetoric, Highways and Interpellating Motions” Rhizomes Issue 8 (Spring 2004) JTB)</span>
[11] Interpellation is a critical outline of the material and constitutive properties of
AND
by other entities, and a circulating process of (ex)change.



===Baudrillard=== 

====Power DA==== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Power is not objective submission but simulated relations that are constantly exchanged between actors. Their seductive politics is what gives power meaning, refusal to exchange and recognize makes power disappear.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jean </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Baudrillard</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.Tupac of Academia. Forget Foucault.Translated by Nicole Dufresne.19</span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">77</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.Page50-54</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">WithFoucault,wealwaysbrushagainstpoliticaldeterminationinitslastinstance............</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">now</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">that's</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">real,</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">that's</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">substantial</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,that'sprospectivestock.</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">That's</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">power</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Taoism Kritik</span>=== 


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The good traveler has no fixed plans. The joy of life comes spontaneously in accepting things as they are—the 1AC’s social engineering destroys us spiritually.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Slabbert 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, (Jos, Taoist teacher, “Tao Te Ching: How to Deal With Suffering,” [[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]] shree, ev under erasure)</span>

If you open yourself to loss<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, you are at one with loss and </span>you can accept it completely<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This </span>openness<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, ......, the more damage we will do.</span>


**Vote negative to forgo the 1AC’s intent to effect desired ends.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kirkland 96</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Russel, prof of Asian religions at UGA, “The Book of the Way,” Great Literature of the Eastern World, [[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf]]</span>shree)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Specifically, the Tao is humble, yielding, and non-assertive........ -- </span>is the most powerful force<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in existence, </span>and nothing can thwart its unceasing operation<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

===Void Kritik=== 

**Their politics aren’t ‘democratic’. The subject of politics is nothingness, the inbetween spaces of representation. Assumptions of totality creates a police order of inequality.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ranciere 2001</span> (Jacques, Prof. Phil @ European Graduate School, “Ten Theses on Politics,” Theory and Event 5:3 Muse Online)
The 'people' that is the subject of democracy -- and thus the principal subject of
AND
social (ac)counts and an exception to all logics of domination.

**Ignorant of Nothingness, any metaphysics hubristically collapses under its own self-congratulatory incompleteness. If the 2ac cannot interpret the void then you should reject all their knowledge claims and vote neg on presumption**

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Heidegger '67</span> William V. Spanos “The Question of Philosophy and //Poiesis// in the Posthistorical Age: Thinking/Imagining the Shadow of Metaphysics” boundary 2 / Spring 2000, citing
Heidegger, ‘‘What Is Metaphysics?’’ in Basic Writings, 95–96


‘What is remarkable is that, precisely in the way scientific man secures to
AND
thing is sure: science wishes to know nothing of the nothing.’
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]