[[toc]]
Aff Cites: rthota9000@gmail.com
Neg Cites: <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">sundaresan.vinaik@gmail.com</span>







=Affirmative= 
==Next Gen== 
===1AC's=== 
====The Squo==== 
Air traffic will double by 2025 bringing a total system collapse absent ATC upgrades
Williams 9 (Genevra, J.D. Candidate at Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law and B.B.A. from the University of Iowa, "GPS For The Sky: A Survey of Automatic Dependent Surveillance-(ADS-B) and its Implementation in the United States", Journal of Air Law and Commerce, Spring, 74 J. Air L. %26 Com. 473, Lexis)

Demand for air travel is on the rise. The Federal Aviation Administration
AND
Absent modernization, the consequences will be a total system collapse."

====Plan Text==== 
The United States Federal Aviation Administration should provide investment for the infrastructure equipage of Next Generation air transportation system technology.

====Warming==== 
Warming is fast and anthropogenic
Ross et al.2012 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">( Department of Geography, Planning and Environment, Concordia University "Assessing the effects of ocean diffusivity climate sensitivity on the rate of global climate change" Tellus International meteorological institute in Stockholm May 3, 2012 [[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/-http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/]])</span>

The range in the projections of future climate warming can be attributed to the inherent
AND
levels of climate change than previously anticipated

Warming causes extinction
Flournoy 12 — Citing Feng Hsu, PhD NASA Scientist @ the Goddard Space Flight
Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book, p. 10-11)

In the Online Journal of Space Communication , Dr. Feng Hsu, a NASA
AND
too high for us to take any chances" (Hsu 2010 ) .

Plan solves through increased efficiency—reduces flight time and optimizes fueling
SNS 11State News Service, Forefront of news reporting, 2/28, "AVIATION NOISE AND AIR QUALITY SYMPOSIUM", Lexis)

NextGen is also helping us to improve efficiency and to provide benefits through the
AND
U.S. to meet aviation transportation needs of the 21st century.

Airline emissions are the key contributors to climate change
Sewill 5– Brendon, vice president of the British Trust for Conservation Volunteers, "Fly Now, Grieve Later", [[http://www.aef.org.uk/downloads/FlyNowFull.pdf-http://www.aef.org.uk/downloads/FlyNowFull.pdf]]

Aviation is the industry with the fastest growing contribution to climate change. Between 1990
AND
global warming. Thus aviation is set to become the world’s dirtiest industry.

====Economy==== 
Next Generation air transportation~’s key—modernizes traffic control and bolsters US economic recovery
JPDO 7 "Business Case for the Next Generation Transportation System", 8/24, [[http://www.jpdo.gov/library/nextgen_business_case_ver_1.pdf-http://www.jpdo.gov/library/nextgen_business_case_ver_1.pdf]]

The Aviation Industry is Critical to the U.S. Economy: The aviation
AND
to ¶ develop implementation strategies that maximize economic value and minimize implementation risks.



It’s reverse causal – Air Traffic Control failure collapses the global economy// – NextGen solves
AIA 11 (Aerospace Industries Association, "Civil Aviation – Second to None", http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/ip_civil_2011.pdf)

ISSUE: The U.S. civil aviation industry plays a vital role in
AND
stays on schedule by fully funding FAA~’s capital and RE%26D accounts.

Economic collapse kills millions and sparks great power wars
Duncan, chief economist Blackhorse Asset Management former IMF consultant and financial sector specialist for the World Bank, 12 [Richard, The New Depression: The Breakdown of the Paper Money Economy, 2012, ebook~~]bg

The political battle over America~’s future would be bitter, and quite possibly bloody.
AND
by an even more calamitous global war that killed approximately 60 million people.

====Aerospace==== 

Aerospace is failing now
Albaugh 11 (<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and member of the International Academy of Astronautics,(Jim, 4/27, "Keeping America~’s Lead in Aerospace", Speech to the 10th Annual Aviation Summit US Chamber of Commerce,[[</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)--http://www.aia-aerospace.org/newsroom/speeches_testimony/]] RT</span>

Today we take America’s industrial base for granted, but we do so at our
AND
since the ¶ 777, and we paid the price as a result.


NextGen explicitly benefits the aerospace industry
Bourgeois 10 (**Daniel Bourgeois, August 2010, Masters of Science, Science Technology and Public Policy, Rochester Institute of Technology, "The Next Generation Air Transportation System: An Answer to Solve Airport Efficiency?"page 24,25, http://gradworks.umi.com/1480274.pdf)**

There are six objectives that the JPDO set forth to accomplish. They are to
AND
in order to accomplish the six goals that were set for the system.


Strong aerospace key to overall US Hegemony—even a moderate decline in the industry would be disastrous
Thompson 9 (David, President – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, "The Aerospace Workforce", Federal News Service, 12-10, Lexis)

Aerospace systems are of considerable importance to U.S. national security, economic
AND
in the common industrial supply base that our entire space sector relies on.


Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction
Barnett 11 (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis %26 Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, "The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads," March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads-http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]

It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of
AND
the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

====Agriculture==== 
NextGen technology bolsters agricultural aviation- saves the ag industry and reduces run of
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee 2-8-12 ~~["SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING EXAMINES GPS USE IN AVIATION INDUSTRY," [[http://transportation.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1524-http://transportation.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1524]]~~]

GPS is at the center of FAA~’s Next Gen air traffic control modernization program,
AND
and saves American farmers up to %2414-30 billion, annually."


Reducing runoff is essential to preventing phosphorous shortages and global famine
JAMES ELSER and STUART WHITE – 04/20/2010 Foreign Policy "Peak Phosphorus", [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/20/peak_phosphorus?page=0,1-http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/20/peak_phosphorus?page=0,1]]

The effects of this resource shortage will be felt long before the last phosphorus atom
AND
all live in a world with cleaner rivers, lakes, and oceans.


Independently - Global agriculture stability is approaching the brink- US technology spreads globally and is key to global food security
Pardey and Alston ’10 ~~[Philip G. Pardey is professor of science and technology policy in the Department of Applied Economics at the University of Minnesota, where he also directs the university~’s International Science and Technology Practice and Policy Center and former senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, and Julian M. Alston is a professor in the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics of the University of California, Davis Washington D.C., "U.S. Agricultural Research in a Global Food Security Setting," [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100111_Pardey_USAgriRes_Web.pdf-http://csis.org/files/publication/100111_Pardey_USAgriRes_Web.pdf]]~~]

The United States has been pivotal to the crucial role of agricultural R%26D
AND
in the face of climate change and other challenges in the decades ahead.


Increased food prices will cause mass starvation killing 95% of the world

Adams 8<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – staff writer for naturalnews.com (April 23, "The Biofuels Scam, Food Shortages and the Coming Collapse of the Human Population", [[</span>http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html-http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

So, to repeat, the food bubble is now starting to implode. What
AND
95% of humanity is just one crop season away from mass starvation.

====Solvency==== 
Loan guarantees are vital to NextGen investment- airlines want federal action
Carey ’11 {Bill, senior editor with Aviation International News, "Public-Private Partnerships Among Proposals to Advance NextGen," August, [[http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2011-07-27/public-private-partnerships-among-proposals-advance-nextgen-http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2011-07-27/public-private-partnerships-among-proposals-advance-nextgen]]~~]

Although there is consensus about its ultimate benefits, NextGen faces a cost conundrum.
AND
I could really kick start this by lowering the cost of capital."


FAA commitment’s key to private investment
Schofield and Jackman 12 Adrian, Frank, Senior Air Transport Editor and Editor at Aviation Week, "Banking on NextGen", 5/16/12, Aviation Week %26 Space Technology, EBSCO

These days nobody disagrees that the NextGen air traffic management (ATM) program is
AND
Chew. The key is removing the uncertainty about returns on the investment.


Public private partnerships boost NextGen equipage while not raising costs
ECT 12 [[(Eno Center for Transportation, "NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits, and Political Leadership", April, http://www.enotrans.org/wp-content/uploads/wpsc/downloadables/NextGen-paper.pdf-C:\Users\Owner\Downloads\(Eno Center for Transportation,]])

The preceding sections analyzed potential revenue sources ¶ for NextGen infrastructure funding. In this
AND
in congested airports by¶ enabling them to quickly load and unload passengers.

NextGen technology is ready—PPPs for infrastructure are the final hurdle
Schofield 12 Adrian, Senior Air Transport Editor at Aviation Week, "NextGen Emerges", 5/14, Aviation Week %26 Space Technology, EBSCO

Almost from the beginning, the FAA~’s NextGen initiative has been dogged by accusations of
AND
for the government to provide the commitments required for the program to work.
==IWTF== 
===1AC's=== 
====The Squo==== 

Status quo efforts to fund the inland waterway trust fund fail—it threatens the sustainability of our waterway infrastructure
Frelinghuysen 12
(Rodney P., Member of the House of Representatives, Head of a bipartisan committee on energy and water development, "Senate Report 112-075 – Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill, 2012"; http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/cpquery/?%26sid=cp112ncvda%26r_n=sr075.112%26dbname=cp112%26%26sel=TOC_28798%26//HH)
In December 2010, the administration provided their views on the capital investment strategy.
AND
in some manner to address the serious funding shortfalls in modernizing this system.


The current method of sporadic funding fails—causes cost overruns and delays that decimate effectiveness
**Quad-City Times 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">("Commit to our River", 10/20/2010, [[http://qctimes.com/news/opinion/editorial/article_2a7509cc-dbc3-11df-afda-001cc4c03286.html-http://qctimes.com/news/opinion/editorial/article_2a7509cc-dbc3-11df-afda-001cc4c03286.html]])</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">VS</span>
Waterways Users Board member Larry Daily, president of Alter Barge Lines in Bettendorf,
AND
that rewards waterway users~’ bigger stake with assured, fixed funding from Congress.

====Plan Text==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should increase its investment in the Inland Waterways Trust Fund.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Steel</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">It’s unstable in the status quo and struggling to recover</span>
Shore 12 (Sandy ~~[Ap business writer~~]. April 25. "US steel industry in a slow recovery from recession" [[http://www.seattlepi.com/business/article/US-steel-industry-in-slow-recovery-from-recession-3506780.php-http://www.seattlepi.com/business/article/US-steel-industry-in-slow-recovery-from-recession-3506780.php]])
Recovery in the U.S. steel industry still has a ways to go
AND
shipping volumes that we saw back in 2007, 2008," she said.

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Repair and prevention of lock or dam failures stop the collapse of the coal industry which causes the price to soar</span>

Boselovic 3/18/2012

(Len, award winner for business and investigative reporting, , Pittsburgh Post ("THE NATION~’S LOCKS AND DAMS, INCLUDING 23 IN REGION, ARE ON THE BRINK OF FAILURE, ACCORDING TO U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS")

Corps and industry officials say it would take three or more years to replace a

AND

the cost of electricity for about 21 million people along the East Coast.

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">That is critical to the steel industry—coal is vital to the manufacturing of it</span>

WCI <span style="font-size: 9pt;">20</span>09 (World Coal Institute, organization promoting technological innovation and improved environmental outcomes within the context of a balanced and responsible energy mix. "Coal and Steel," 3/6/2009


Steel is a vital building block for development – it facilitates economic growth and poverty

AND

coal) using electricity – often generated using affordable and reliable steam coal.


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">American made steel is key to the defense industrial base—solves deterrence</span>

AISI 2k8

(American Iron and Steel Institute, "U.S. Steel Industry Critical To Keeping Us Free," pg online @ [[http://legacy.steel.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=Home%26CONTENTID=24325%26TEMPLATE=/CM/ContentDisplay.cfm-http://legacy.steel.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=Home%26CONTENTID=24325%26TEMPLATE=/CM/ContentDisplay.cfm]] //um-ef)


Sharkey said domestically-produced steel is important to "improve our military platforms,

AND

steel requirements are satisfied by both integrated steel mills and EAF producer mills.

=====<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 1: Russia War</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">First, the DiB deters war with Russia</span>

Watts 2k8


(Senior Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (Barry D, "The US Defense Industrial Base, Past, Present and Future," CBA, __http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In.pdf__)

Since the 1950s, the US defense industrial base has been a source of long

AND

term advantage in the decades ahead as it has been since the 1950s.

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>

Bostrum '02
[Dr. Nick, Dept. Phil @ yale, "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html/~~]
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in
AND
preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

=====Scenario 2: China- Taiwan War===== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Loss of the defense industrial base risks a China-Taiwan War</span>
Steven Mosher 2/14/06
(President of the Population Research Institute, CQ Congressional Testimony, "Chinese Influence on U.S. Foreign Policy" pg lexis)

The ruthless mercantilism practiced by the CCP is thus a form of economic warfare.
AND
American military assets in the Asian- Pacific will have to be neutralized.

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>
The Strait Times, 2000
["No one gains in war over Taiwan", June 25, Lexis~~]

The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full
AND
cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.

====Agriculture==== 
Lock collapse decimates agriculture exports – shipping costs destroy competitiveness
Kruse et al. 2011,<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director at the Center for Ports and waterways, ("America~’s Locks %26 Dams: "A Ticking Time Bomb for Agriculture?", www.unitedsoybean.org/wp-content/uploads/Americas_Locks_And_Dams.pdf)</span>

Agriculture accounted for 22% of all transported tonnage and 31% of all ton
AND
via barge; for soybeans, the percentage was 87–89%.2


Roads and rails fail – spikes costs
USB, 12 (United Soybean Board, 2/8/12, "Dilapidated Locks on U.S. Rivers Put Farmers, Consumers at Risk," http://www.unitedsoybean.org/global-opportunities-briefings/dilapidated-locks-on-u-s-rivers-put-farmers-consumers-at-risk/)

The study expresses grave concern about aging locks and dams along these rivers that serve
AND
and improvement of locks, dams and other important infrastructure for agricultural shipping.


Even if there isn’t a collapse, uncertainty in the industry undermines its sustainability
**Bray 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—- Center for Transportation Research, University of Tennessee, Knoxville (9/21/2011, Larry G., Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing - "The Economic Importance and Financial Challenges of Recapitalizing the Nation~’s Inland Waterways Transportation System," Factiva, JMP)</span>
Has Aging Infrastructure Left US Inland Navigation at a Crossroads? While my years of
AND
wrongly-abandoned routes that can never be restored will top many lists.


=====Scenario One: Soybeans===== 

Collapse of inland waterways crushes U.S. soybean exports
Micik, Agfax, 2012(Katie, January 25, "Waterway Lock Failure Would be Severe Economic Blow, study finds", http://agfax.com/2012/01/25/waterway-lock-failure-would-be-severe-economic-blow-study-finds/
A failure at one of six focus locks in a new study
AND
rail system and truck system can we continue to move our products in a manner that will help us feed the world."



US soybean competitiveness is key to prevent Brazil from dominating the market
AM 11 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(11/11/11, agrimoney.com, "US soy exports have ~’narrow window~’ for recovery," http://www.agrimoney.com/news/us-soy-exports-have-narrow-window-for-recovery—3836.html)</span>

US soybean exporters have only a "narrow window" when they will have the
AND
stocks will have been disposed of and South American exports are seasonally small".


Growth of Brazilian soybean exports triggers deforestation of the Amazon rainforest—collapses biodiversity
Brown, 9 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">President of the Earth Policy Institute (Lester R. Brown, the recipient of many prizes and awards, including 25 honorary degrees, a MacArthur Fellowship, the 1987 United Nations~’ Environment Prize, In 2012, he was inducted into the Earth Hall of Fame Kyoto, "Growing Demand for Soybeans Threatens Amazon Rainforest", December 30, 2009, http://www.earth-policy.org/plan_b_updates/2009/update86)</span>

The Amazon rainforest sustains one of the richest concentrations of plant and animal biological diversity
AND
growth in demand for soybeans by stabilizing population worldwide as soon as possible.


It also displaces farmers and puts all your alt cause industries deeper into the Amazon
USDA 4
(US Department of Agriculture; "The Amazon: Brazil~’s Final Soybean Frontier"; http://www.fas.usda.gov/pecad/highlights/2004/01/amazon/amazon_soybeans.htm//HH)
Over the past 10 years the Brazilian government estimates that roughly 19.0 million
AND
yields in the region, deforestation and agricultural expansion rates could feasibly accelerate.

Amazon deforestation causes extinction
Takacs 96<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Instructor in Department of Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State-Monterey Bay ~~[David, 1996 Philosophies of Paradise, pg. http://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm~~]</span>

So biodiversity keeps the world running. It has value and of itself, as
AND
of the next century - not with a bang but a whimper.14



=====Scenario Two is Ethanol===== 


Effective MTS is key to corn transport—it~’s 53 percent of transport, and growing because of effective inland waterways
IWUB 12
(Inland Waterways User Board; Mr Nicholas Marathon, representative of the USDA; "Summary Minutes 66"; http://www.waterwaysusers.us/Summary%20Minutes%2066.pdf//HH)//
//Mr. Nicholas Marathon of the USDA, Agricultural Marketing Service, thanked the Board//
//AND//
//exports are moved to export terminals by means of the inland waterways system.//


//High corn prices decimate the ethanol industry—causes plant shutdown and kills profitability—drought proves//
//Wilson 8/30//
//(Conrad, writer for NPR; "In Drought, Should Corn Be Food Or Fuel?"; http://www.npr.org/2012/08/30/160250546/in-drought-should-corn-be-food-or-fuel//HH)
Standing outside the Central Minnesota Ethanol Co-Op in Little Falls, Minn.,
AND
about 8 cents per gallon, which is pretty weak," she says.


Ethanol is key to break oil dependence—it’s sustainable
RFA 12
(Renewable Fuels Association; "Accelerating Industry: 2012 Ethanol Outlook"; http://ethanolrfa.3cdn.net/d4ad995ffb7ae8fbfe_1vm62ypzd.pdf//HH)
It is simple enough to understand: With ethanol representing ten¶ percent of the
AND
fuels will be available to¶ displace hard to come by sources of petroleum


Oil dependence leads to proliferation, terrorism, and multiple scenarios of nuclear great power war- 7 reasons
Glaser 11-<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor at Elliot School of International Affairs and Dept. of Political Science; Director of Elliot School Institute for Security and Conflict Studies, The George Washington University (Charles, "International Security Implications of Energy Dependence and Vulnerability", 4/27/2011, http://web.mit.edu/ssp/seminars/wed_archives_2011Spring/glaser.html) VS</span>
Prof. Glaser described his project as a framing exercise seeking to identify what are
AND
better for stability. Thus we should be encouraging China to do this.¶

====Solvency==== 
Failure of one lock spills over – creates a bottleneck
Meira 12 (Kristin Meira, Executive Director @ Pacific Northwest Waterways Association, Political Transcript of a hearing of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, proquest)
Early in the last decade, our colleagues at the Portland and Walla-Walla
AND
closure of one of our projects creates a bottleneck for the entire system.


A federal investment strategy is key to effectively expand inland waterways —- imposes obligations on government planners and decision makers
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[—- a user pays model can ensure sufficient financing~~]</span>
Bray, 11<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> —- Center for Transportation Research, University of Tennessee, Knoxville (9/21/2011, Larry G., Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing - "The Economic Importance and Financial Challenges of Recapitalizing the Nation~’s Inland Waterways Transportation System," Factiva, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Does Economic Theory Support a Federal Role in the Creation of Renewed Inland Navigation Capacity and, If So, What is the Proper Course?</span>

Even after decades of mergers, it is still common to find two or more
AND
then the burden must be spread equitably across this broader array of beneficiaries.


Increasing funding for infrastructure investments will prevent catastrophic failures in the system —- further delay risks economic crises current piecemeal reform can~’t solve it leads to catastrophic Cost Overrun
Boselovic, 12<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (3/25/12, Len, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, "LEGISLATION PROPOSED TO FUND DETERIORATING LOCKS AND DAMS," Factiva, JMP)</span>

Legislation that would more than double the money available each year to fix the nation~’s crumbling locks
AND
"We’re willing to pay more. Our customers are willing to pay more," said Michael Toohey, president of the Waterways Council, an Arlington, Va., group that represents barge operators, shippers and related groups.

=Negative= 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]