For cites and stuff, email Fiona at fliu7598@bths.edu
=Affirmative= 
**Contention 1: Transport and the body** 
**Transportation infrastructure carries with it a history of spatial exclusion and violence. America itself is a historical battleground for the controlling of populations via transporting marked bodies and the ghettoization of those deemed lesser. From the slave trade transporting Africans to America, to the trail of tears pushing natives to the periphery, to the exploitation of Chinese rail road workers; this same violence is integral to the smooth functioning oppressive structures. Begin your analysis with how bodies are destroyed in the spaces they live in.** 
**Gandy 06**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Matthew, Department of Geography, University College London, Zones of indistinction: bio-political contestations in the urban arena cultural geographies 2006 13: 497-516 http://www.matthewgandy.org/datalive/downloadfiles/culturalgeog.pdf)</span>
**__The relationship between the body and the city…. juridical and other sources of power.__**

**Transportation infrastructure is another myth of progress that paves over the oppressed much like the cross-bronx expressway is paved through a poor black community. This new manifest destiny annihilates oppressed groups like Asians through expulsing them from the very nation they build.**
**Shimakawa 2k2**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Karen, professor of drama at NYU, National Abjection, The Asian American Body Onstage p10-11)//Cheung </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">That process of (</span>**__ambivalent) inclusion…__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> concluded they would advo­cate compliance:</span>

**Specifically, this protection of an elite few justifies the genocide of anything identified as a threat to its existence.** 
**Gandy 2k6**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Matthew, Department of Geography, University College London, Zones of indistinction: bio-political contestations in the urban arena cultural geographies 2006 13: 497-516 http://www.matthewgandy.org/datalive/downloadfiles/culturalgeog.pdf/Cheung)</span>
**__Agamben takes… no value within the global economy__**


**In such a way, as a means to dominate the “other”, war and massacres become inevitable.**
Hoffmann 7<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Kasper, International Development Studies at Roskilde University, May, Militarised Bodies and Spirits of Resistance, http://diggy.ruc.dk:8080/handle/1800/2766 //shree)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In modern forms of government, concepts of the norm and normal have played a kind…. fundamental feature of modern processes of government.</span>

**This culminates in extinction. The “other” will always exist and the only absolute elimination is a nuclear war to destroy difference.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bernauer 90</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (James, Professor of Philosophy, Boston College, Michel Foucault’s Force of Flight, 1990, p. 141-142)</span>
<span class="underline">This capacity of power… </span>around each of our own necks.


<span style="background-color: yellow;">Contention 2: The cage of the soul</span>
**Transportation infrastructure cannot solve, it is a prison for the oppressed. 3 points:** 
**a) It renders the violence invisible through the illusion of progress. This co-opts real resistance.** 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haber 94</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(H. Professor of Philosophy at University of Colorado-Denver BEYOND POSTMODERN POLITICS, p. 99)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Foucault states in the p</span>unifying the people against a common enemy<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


**b) Transportation is tied to oppression structurally; investment in one part of the social is always a disinvestment in another. If we build an airport for business, we’ll throw it right next to the oppressed.** 
**Gandy 2k6**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Matthew, Department of Geography, University College London, Zones of indistinction: bio-political contestations in the urban arena cultural geographies 2006 13: 497-516 http://www.matthewgandy.org/datalive/downloadfiles/culturalgeog.pdf/Cheung)</span>
**__The intensified cycles of investment…__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> relations between the body, space and power.</span>

**c) It furthers surveillance of the marginalized. Transportation becomes another scheme to control bodies, for example labeling brown people terrorists near docks, roads, planes or trains.** 
**Bell 2k5**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Colleen, Department of Political Science, York University, Biopolitical Strategies of Security: Considerations on Canada’s New National Security Policy p17-19/Cheung)</span>
**__A variety of new and expanded… characterized by the prevalence of ‘risk.’__** 


----
**<span style="font-size: 12px;">Thus, Fiona and I affirm the resolution as an interrogation of transportation infrastructure investments in the United States.</span>**

----
**This is the only true way to invest in transportation for the oppressed; anything less is a ploy for elites. Thus, we must engage in a state of constant criticism to stop violence. Not questioning is the same as permitting violence to occur. This form of truth speaking interrupts the moral equilibrium of the state with a counter knowledge.** 
**Gandy 2k6**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Matthew, Department of Geography, University College London, Zones of indistinction: bio-political contestations in the urban arena cultural geographies 2006 13: 497-516 http://www.matthewgandy.org/datalive/downloadfiles/culturalgeog.pdf/Cheung)</span>
**__We need to engage with those marginal… contemporary developments in social theory.__**

**Our starting point is a necessary site of interrogation to ground resistance against violence.**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Butin</span> **01**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Dan W., Assistant Professor of Education at Gettysburg College, Educational Studies, Vol. 32, No. 2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">"Power," Foucault declared famously, "is everywhere…</span>response to ongoing relations of power<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


**Contention 3: Framework**
**a) Our interpretation is that systemic impacts are more important because they make all other violence inevitable. Debate must be grounded with an eye towards the margins.**
**b) Traditional modes of affirmation devolves debate into brutal cost benefit analyses. This glosses over structures of oppression and masks violence with a smiling face.** 
**Wise 08**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Tim,anti-racist activist and speaker,, B.A. from Tulane University in political science., //White Like Me//: //Reflections on Race From a Privileged Son//., pg 32-36)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The reason I call this process a white one is because </span>**__whites__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (…words, that I was white.</span>


**c) The compulsion to****roleplaying causes passivity**
<span class="Underline0">**Antonio 95** </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Robert, Professor of Philosophy at University of Kansas Nietzsche's Antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History, American Journal of Sociology, Vol. 101, No. 1, pp. 1-43) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">According to Nietzsche, the "subject..,.</span> **//__ent__// __paves the way for a new type of tyrant__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Nietzsche 1986, pp. 137, 168; 1974, pp. 117-18, 213, 288-89, 303-4).</span>


d) <span style="font-size: 11pt;">This means the aff has a better internal link to a non-violent politic.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strathausen 2k6</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Carsten, Associate Professor of German and English at the University of Missouri at Columbia “A Critique of Neo-Left Ontology,” Postmodern Culture, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Agamben contends that these </span><span class="underline">human.. relationship" and his effort "to think the politico-social factum no longer in the form of a relation" at all (</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">60).</span>