[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Economy Adv</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1 is the Economy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We will isolate 3 internal links ---</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First is declining infrastructure --- it is undermining the foundation of the U.S. economy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Donohue, 11 --- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Factiva, JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As Obama and Congress talk jobs… …. anyone is up to the challenge, we are.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This negatively influences the entire economy --- prevents a resilient supply chain</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Little, 11 --- Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy (4/5/2011, Richard, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The massive network of seaports… … for economic decline and its consequences.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second is stimulus ---</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment --- a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Skidelsky & Martin, 11 --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">macroeconomist and bond investor </span>**(3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,”[[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)
But could a National Investment Bank … …other long-term investors.

The economy won’t recover quickly or sufficiently enough on its own --- A national bank will stimulate the economy and boost jobs
Skidelsky & Martin, 11 --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,”[[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">President Obama is in a bind… …projects would bring to the broader economy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Studies prove the plan is a uniquely beneficial form of stimulus</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tyson, 11 --- Chan Chair in Global Management at UC Berkeley's Haas School of Business (Laura D., “A Better Stimulus Plan for the U.S. Economy,” [[http://hbr.org/web/extras/hbr-agenda-2011/laura-d-tyson]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although stimulus spending is a politically … … time has come to make it happen.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third internal link is unemployment ---</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is triggering a major economic crisis --- outweighs the deficit and is best solved by the plan</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tyson, 11 --- professor at the Haas School of Business at Cal Berkeley and former chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and the head of the National Economic Council under President Clinton (8/18/2011, Laura D’Andrea Tyson, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. economy … …the millions of Americans who need a job.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline triggers worldwide conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Royal, 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Less intuitive is how periods of .. …considered ancillary to those views.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gartzke 11 – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" [[@http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. Modern “zones of peace” … …war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>

The plan revives confidence in demand and gets the private sector on board
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Skidelsky & Martin, 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">--- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND **macroeconomist and bond investor(3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,”** </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]])</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">Such are the principles of our proposal, but what about the practicalities? .... ....self-sustaining private sector recovery.</span>**

The National Infrastructure Bank is immune to mismanagement arguments
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Cohn, 11</span>(8/11/2011, Jonathan, “Selling Public Works to the Tea Party,” <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.tnr.com/blog/jonathan-cohn/93496/infrastructure-bank-roads-airports-funding-obama-kerry-hutchison]]</span>, JMP)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> I know Tea Party Republicans don’t care for infrastructure spending...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">without all the congressional meddling</span>. 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Will immediately boost employment and growth</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zakaria, 11 (6/13/2011, Fareed, “Zakaria: U.S. needs an infrastructure bank,” [[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/06/13/zakaria-u-s-needs-an-infrastructure-bank/]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">President Obama has proposed … … might actually be the biggest payoff of all.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1ac Steel Industry Adv</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 is the Steel Industry ---</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The steel industry is growing now, but remains fragile – new transportation infrastructure projects are vital to `maintain momentum</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brooks, 12 – Foundry Management & Technology Editor-in-chief at IndustryWeek (Robert Brooks, “Domestic Steelmakers are Strong, But Concerned”, IndustryWeek, 4/12/12, [[http://www.industryweek.com/articles/domestic_steelmakers_are_strong_but_concerned_27078.aspx?SectionID=5]] | AK)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. steel industry is bullish … … for steelmakers and other manufacturers.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Now is key – focusing on new projects is key to the industry’s survival</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">King, 12 – political writer for the Wheeling News-Register and the Intelligencer (Joselyn King, “’Future Of Steel’ Topic In D.C”, Wheeling News-Register, 3/25/12, [[http://www.theintelligencer.net/page/content.detail/id/567562/Future-Of-Steel-Topic-In-D-C.html?nav=515]] | AK)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WHEELING - Congress must take action … … steel and manufacturing sectors."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A national infrastructure bank is critical – new infrastructure investments are vital to stimulate steel and manufacturing demand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Danjczek et al., 11 – President of the Steel Manufacturers Association (Thomas A. Danjczek, “2011 — 2012 PUBLIC POLICY STATEMENT STEEL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION”, Steel Manufacturers Assocation, 2011-2012,[[http://66.39.14.41/public_policy/public_policy.pdf]] | AK)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Need for Infrastructure Investment The infrastructure … … expedite the approval of key projects.</span>


__The impact is hegemony__ – a strong steel industry is the __vital__ internal link to military primacy
Buyer 7(Member of the House of Representatives, 7-31-7 (Steve, Before the International Trade Commission, Regarding the five-year sunset review on Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine (Inv. Nos. 701-TA-404-408 and 731-TA-898-908 )
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">robust steel industry is fundamental to the security... ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">protect our very existence as a nation. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heg prevents global nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Barnett, 11 [Thomas Barnett, Chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, March 7, 2011, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts US, and the Globalization, at Crossroads”, World Politics Review, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Events in Libya are a further reminder … … from state-based conflicts.</span>

Even if decline inevitable, the u.s. will never accept anything less than total domination
Mearsheimer 11<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> John J. Mearsheimer, the “R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago” Jan/Feb 2011 “Imperial By Design” http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/A0059.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The downward spiral the United States .... ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">benign hegemon serving their own interests.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1ac Solvency</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention _ is Solvency ---</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A national bank devoted just to transportation will revitalize U.S. infrastructure --- it will be easy on the budget and politically palatable</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lovaa, 11 --- Federal Transportation Policy Director for NRDC (6/28/2011, Deron, “An Infrastructure Bank for Transportation,”[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html]], JMP)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Another creative funding idea that’s getting … …to vastly improve the status quo.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Federal action is superior --- better evaluation, finance, and reduced borrowing costs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thomasson, 11 --- Director of Public Policy, Progressive Policy Institute (10/12/2011, Scott, Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Hearing - "National Infrastructure Bank: More Bureaucracy and More Red Tape," Factiva) // NK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Myth #6: We don't need a national … …power of state banks is entirely misplaced.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for large-scale projects</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">McConaghy & Kessler, 11 --- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND </span>Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">America’s economic future will hinge on … … to make enduring infrastructure investments.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its national infrastructure bank transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>
=Negative= 
Dowling Catholic
Round 2:Port Deepening
1NC : Breila K, T-increase, Privatization CP, Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR: Breila K

Round 3: HSR
1NC: Fiscal Cliff DA, Breila K, T-vehicles, Minimum Wage CP
2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA and case

Round 5: ITS
1NC: Fiscal Cliff DA, Breila K, T-vehicles, multi-plank adv CP
2NR: multi-plank adv CP and DA
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]