==**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Affirmative</span></span>**== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">We begin our discussion our transportation infrastructure as follows...</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">They ask for investment</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">In the status quo</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">A type of assessment </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">To make products grow </span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">To the great resolution</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">That states RESOLVED</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Propose a solution</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">To help us all solve</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Hegemony, the Economy</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Our dwindling resource store</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Jobs, warming, disease</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Global nuclear war</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">To the security apparatus </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">That’s the U.S.F.G</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">To those with government status</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">With PhD’s and degrees</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">To all those corporations</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">That sit back content</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">While some people struggle</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">To eat and pay rent </span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">To the debate community </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Whose unity depends </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">On suppressing opportunity </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">For descent </span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">We have a message...</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Here in this room </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">We all are debating</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">I wait to give my next speech</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">While others stand waiting</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Wondering if they’ll have a next meal</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Suffocating </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">In broken New Deal promises </span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">And yet our discussions</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Revolve around Russians</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">And Chinese miscalculation</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">The sensation we get when</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">We say that U.S readiness</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Outweighs proliferation</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">But where are the people whose policies our discussion actually affects?</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">They can’t hear us calling from Capitol Hill</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">They don’t read Senator X and Y’s proposed Bill</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">They’re too busy working and working long hours</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">So to those that scream down from their white ivory towers</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">You’ll have to scream louder </span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">You want transportation infrastructure, we’ll give you some historical examples </span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Europeans came on ships</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">And they made several trips</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Killing off the oppressed </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">They were hell bent obsessed </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">On profit </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Investment was based off</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">The impressment of natives</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Transportation was a mutilation</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">A creation of Western objectivity</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Productivity preceded all other action</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">The extraction of natural resources </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Was the only thing worth investing… </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">The English Royal Fleet</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Spanish Crusade</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">And way before that it was based off the slave trade</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">- </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Palcios 12</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-size: 16px;"> (Christian, student at Whitney Young High school, certified poet, romantic, and terrorist amongst other things, CP) </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">Have the discussions of the oppressed ever permeated the thick fabric of fiat </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">That we use to keep ourselves insulated, secured against any meaningful exchange</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 16px;">That we can have with those that are less fortunate than us?</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We begin with a narrative from Adam Burke</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Burke 08,</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Adam, Writer for NPR) December 4, 2008 “Sucked into the tunnels underneath Las Vegas” [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=97800190]]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">It would be easy to … </span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">." No reason to doubt him</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">AND - We need to challenge the current invisibility of structural violence amongst our communities. The normal functioning of debate, much like our current functioning of modern American society, constructs a methodological distinction between groups of people, deeming them a part of the in crowd or the out crowd...Discussions are either “topical” or “not-topical” – relevant or irrelevant. This constant issue excludes the oppressed from our discussions, further distancing the oppressed from ourselves, contributing to the systematic violence present in the status-quo. This is what leads an invisible genocide committed against the weak and poor throughout the world. We propose an inclusionary approach through our relationships within our debate community, debate's discursive potential, and the appreciation and acceptance of diverse ways of viewing the world, including the world in which we live in and the world in which we debate in, in order to discontinue the invisibility of structural violence.</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Winter and Leighton in 1999</span></span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Deborah DuNann Winter and Dana C. Leighton. Winter: Psychologist that specializes in Social Psych, Counseling Psych, Historical and Contemporary Issues, Peace Psychology. Leighton: PhD graduate student in the Psychology Department at the University of Arkansas. Knowledgable in the fields of social psychology, peace psychology, and ustice and intergroup responses to transgressions of justice) (Peace, conflict, and violence: Peace psychology in the 21st century. Pg 4-5)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally,</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to recognize the operation … to empower citizens to reduce it.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Therefore the Role of The Ballot for this debate is to endorse a political discussion emphasizing the voices of the oppressed people affected by transportation infrastructure as we debate this year’s resolution. Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States. Your ballot acts as an endorsement of a brand of politics capable of challenging the violent norms of the status quo, voting aff is the act pressing down on the elevator taking a look at what goes down underneath the streets.</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">The failure to incorporate the lives of those who are oppressed by our politics can only lead to more oppressive politics… and eventually the failure of our politics. </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Friere 70</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Paulo Friere, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">1970</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">For the truly humanist educator … cultural invasion,[11]good intentions notwithstanding</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Only by recognizing the ways in which we are negatively affected by transportation infrastructure while simultaneously acknowledging the ways in which our advancement in such spaces are at the expense of others can we purposefully and effectively challenge the systems that have created and allows structural violence both in the past and the status quo.</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Henze 2000</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> (Brent R.Henze 2000 “Who Says Who Says?: The Epistemological Grounds for Agency in Liberatory Political Projects.” Found in Reclaiming Identity: Realist theory and the predicament of postmodernism. Edited by Paula Moya and Michael Hames-Garcia)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">ThoughIargueagainstefforts… </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">yet</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">particular</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">effect</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">of</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">power.</span></span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Status quo systems of transportation have failed precisely because we don’t start from the perspective of the oppressed. Any benefits from investment instead go to the elite</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Setboonsarng, 2006</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">[ Sununtar , 18 Apr. "Transport Infrastructure and Poverty Reduction." Adbi.org. Asian Development Bank Institute, 18 Apr. 2006. Web. <</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[@http://www.adbi.org/research-policy-brief/2006/04/18/1791.transport.infrastructure.poverty/|__http://www.adbi.org/files/2006.04.rpb21.transport.infrastructure.poverty_000.pdf__]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">>.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">In many instances,</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">transport investments have failed to provide benefits for the ... responsive to the prevailing conditions faced by the poor.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must interrogate both objective and subjective forms of structural violence. Any other method of communication fails to identify the root of the problem and makes error replication inevitable. The invisibility of structural violence has justified the ruthless expansion of Western ideology, the invasion of Iraq, torture chambers and is the root of exploitation and oppression</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Howie 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Luke, Department of Behavioral Studies, Monash University, member of the Global Terrorism Research Centre, International Journal of Zizek Studies Volume 5 Number 2, “They Were Created by Man … and They Have a Plan: Subjective and Objective Violence in Battlestar Galactica and the War on Terror” pg. 2-4)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Žižek’s descriptions of the distinction between … identifying objective violence can have consequences. Yet, identifying objective violence may also play an important role in preventing terrorism. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Don’t buy the negatives images of catastrophe. Their forms of fear mongering political discourse only reinscribe systems of status quo domination. Our 1AC acts as a way of reclaiming the debate space from the zombified forms of scholarship that proliferate our information networks.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Giroux 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Henry A. Giroux, Global TV Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">University, 1 June 2011, “Zombie Politics, Democracy, and the Threat of Authoritarianism - Part I”, [[@http://www.truth-out.org/zombie-politics-democracy-and-threat-authoritarianism-part-i/1306932037]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the world of popular culture, zombies seem to be everywhere</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, … military violence and is a far cry from any semblance of a claim to democracy.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Before we start cross-x we wish to return ourselves to the discussion of the poor. Help for one another goes beyond any material condition in the world. Voting affirmative understands our advocacy as not only a call of material responsibility but also that of spiritual responsibility. Politics minus an understanding of non-material conditions lead to psychic genocide.</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">h</span></span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">ooks 2000</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> (TY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK, PROFESSOR, THEN DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, 1995–2004; BEREA COLLEGE, BEREA, KY, DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR-IN-RESIDENCE, BEGINNING 2004. CO-FOUNDER, HAMBONE LITERARY MAGAZINE. 2000[bELL,WHERE WE STAND: CLASS MATTERS, P. 129-130)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">The poor may be with … </span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">as needs of the spirit**.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">**Negative**</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC Death (Baudrillard)</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**We have internalized the blackmail of security, encasing ourselves in cellophane to ensure our shelf lives. This view reduces the body to a diseased object in need of protection and insurance, making life nothing more than a process of continual mortification.** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Baudrillard 76** (Jean, smart Frenchy, Symbolic Exchange and Death, pp. 177-180, Sage Publications) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Security is another form of … every risk into its sarcophagus.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC Ecology]]1NC Ecology</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">They treat the natural world as an experiment to be managed, a sphere in which human life must be preserved eternally, which paradoxically removes the value of life itself. We need the accident and randomness of the natural world to smash their simplified construction in order to escape.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Baudrillard in 94</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;"> [Jean, “The Illusion … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">euphoria sustained by drip-feed.</span></span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC Economic Rationality]]1NC Economic Rationality</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Their reliance on economic rationality presupposes a neoliberal form of subjectivity that they superimpose upon the world in order to justify mass violence and homogenization. This also makes transition wars and economic collapse inevitable, as it fails to understand how the crucial problem today is one of symbolic exchange.** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Bernadri 11** – (Franco Bifo Bernardi, “After the Future,” ed. Genesko & Thoburn, AKPress, p. 141-7, CP) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">More than ever,</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> economic rationality … the way to self-organization</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC Nuclearizm]]1NC Nuclearizm</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The simulation of nuclear war as a constant game of survival means we are constantly being obliterated in our hyper-real world over and over again. When we engage in the hyperreality created by the system then our reality is being security instead of being ourselves. The world becomes nothing but deterrence and war and peace become indistinct** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Jean Baudrillard 1994**. (simulacra and simulation pg 32-39)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The apotheosis of simulation: the … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">meticulous operation of the social.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC Death – (Schopenhauer)]]1NC Death – (Schopenhauer)</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Our lives exist perpetually in the middle__ – subjects in the middle of becoming objects – people in the middle living – people in the middle of becoming corpses. Life is an a-subjective current of folded consciousness, a stream of life, and we slip on and on through the middle of it – never seeing the forest for the trees. The truth is that the river runs through us too – united in pure immanence. However, the restrictive identity of “self” survival imprisons us in the ego and the body, preventing any lines of flight or becoming.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17.3333px;">Mark ’98</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (John, Gilles Deleuze: Vitalism and Multiplicity, p. 29-33)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__It's organisms that die, not … , becomings evolve,__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">revolutions take shape. (N,45)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmative approaches the world with the __tautological rationality of viviocentrism__ – that is life-centeredness. Viviocentrism is a noble lie that informs all aspects of their advocacy and it is the same binary logic of natural mastery that justifies racism, sexism, anthropomorphism, etc. Opening our minds to death allows a transcendence of the tyranny of life and creates the conditions for the ultimate erosion of all borders and conceptions of the natural – put the burden on them to justify physical existence as a roll for the ballot</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heisman 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Mitchell </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Heisman</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (The opposite of a bullshitter, suicide practitioner, & University at Albany bachelor's degree in psychology)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">2010</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Suicide Note</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, online @ … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.suicidenote.info/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, loghry]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">There is a very popular opinion … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">not dictate a bias towards life.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Linearity is a myth – time and space are constructions of perception. Death doesn’t really exist because the physical world is an illusion—immortal life is consciousness and it exists outside of time.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17.3333px;">Lanza 2009</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Robert Lanza is considered one of the leading scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. "Does Death Exist? New Theory Says 'No'",</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/does-death-exist-new-theo_b_384515.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Consider </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">an experiment</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">was … resides outside of time altogether</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC Bataille]]1NC Bataille</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Action mutilates the totality of our existence, tapering it off in subordination to a goal. The only way to avoid such slavery, to totalize our freedom, is to immanently dissolve into the moment, to burn with desire for desire’s sake, to laugh to death**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Bataille 45** (Georges Bataille, The Dark Lord amongst other things, philosopher, On Nietzche, 1945, Pantheon Books, pg xxvi-xxvii)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Nonetheless, I don’t want my Inclination … </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">lacks further tasks to fulfill.) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC Difference]]1NC Difference</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is only the attempt to know the other from the self that creates a dualism and the condition for oppression.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baudrillard 1993</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jean, certified badass, Transparency of Evil, pg. 127-129)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">These days</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> __everything is described in terms of difference …__</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">These are the vicissitudes of a logic of difference.</span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The fetish of play with the other and its well being only reconstructs the other as exhaustible object bringing on its mutilation.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baudrillard 1993</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jean, certified badass, Transparency of Evil, pg. 124-126)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">So what became of otherness?</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> …</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> __Homeostasis between one and the same: all otherness has been confiscated by the machine.__</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;"> </span>