[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Freight 1ac== 
**Contention 1 – Inherency – or the problem with the status quo**
**There is no national program for freight transportation infrastructure. States won’t invest and federal oversight and leadership is necessary.**
**Shank 12**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- CEO and president of Eno Center for Transportation, (Joshua, “The Federal Role in Transportation: Four Ideas for Greater Federal Involvement”, Eno Brief Newsletter, May 2012, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It is inconceivable, and ...</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">scretionary dollars for those projects.</span>__**


===**Plan: The United States federal government, specifically congress, should substantially increase funding for freight transport in ports, waterways, rail, airports, and high­ways. This increase should not be less than $2.5 billion annually and will be distributed based on US Army Corps of Engineer assessments of ranked benefits. Funding, administration, enforcement, and logistics will be through necessary means.**=== 


**Advantage 1 – Economy**

**The economy is in bad shape - Freight bottlenecks, caused by a lack of investment, cost the US $1 TRILLION per year. This guarantees recession is inevitable.**
**Davidson 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Paul Davidson, USA TODAY[[http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-20/creaking-infrastructure/55096396/1]] USA's creaking infrastructure holds back economy</span>
**__The shortcomings were ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">this year and 3% in 2013.</span>

**And the US is having an employment crisis. This will lead to a double dip recession.**
**Daytona Beach News Journal 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jobless figures show economy still struggling </span><span class="byline" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">August 22, 2012 http://www.news-journalonline.com/opinion/editorials/n-j-editorials/2012/08/22/jobless-figures-show-economy-still-struggling.html</span>
**__The latest unemployment ... another drop in demand.__**


**Economic decline leads to an increased chance of conflict – the strongest studies point affirmative.**
**Royal 10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Less intuitive is how </span>**__... increase in the use of force..__**


**Fortunately the plan would increase the economy. Investment in freight infrastructure would create sustainable economic growth, reduce the cost of goods and immediately increase thousands of jobs.**
**Cooper et al 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Getting America’s Freight Back on the Move A Plan for Investing in Our Freight Infrastructure Keith Miller, Kristina Costa esearch assistant in economic policy at the Center., and Donna Cooper Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at American Progress. August 2012 pg 24-25</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But</span> **__the Obama administration ....__** **__terminals throughout the country.__**

**And every job in freight creates 4.5 jobs in other industries.**
**AAR 11** (<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Association of American Railroads, “The Economic Impact of America’s Freight Railroads,” October 2011, http://aar.org/~/media/aar/Background-Papers/The-Economic-Impact-of-Freight.ashx, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Freight Railroads Mean... third of all U.S. exports</span>.


**Independently increasing freight infrastructure increases productivity – this is key to economic recovery.**
UDOT 02
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(January 2002, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/freight/freight_analysis/improve_econ/appa.htm#s1|http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/freight/freight_analysis/improve_econ/appa.htm#s1]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, HS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Freight Transportation and**__....__**</span> **__of economic performance.__**

**Finally, the negative may say that the states should do the plan but their generic evidence won’t be good enough. Even people who staunchly believe that transportation is a state’s issue concede that the federal government has an important role in freight transportation.**
**Rosenbloom and Wachs 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Sandra Rosenbloom, Martin Wachs, researchers at the RAND thinktank, A Federal Role in Freight Planning and</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Finance http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2012/RAND_MG1137.pdf</span>
**__Many freight stakeholders, ... federal role” in transportation__**

**Advantage 2 – The chemical industry**

**First, congestion in the freight industry is devastating the chemical industry in the United States.**
**Kamalick 08**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">OUTLOOK ’08: US chems seek rail freight relief 03 January 2008 21:30 [Source: ICIS news]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">By Joe Kamalick http://www.icis.com/Articles/2008/01/03/9088452/outlook-08-us-chems-seek-rail-freight-relief.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">However</span>, [[@http://www.corporate.basf.com/en/?id=V00-.sM6cB7t9bcp3kF|**BASF**]] **__logistics ....__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in US energy development.</span>
**And the cost pressure that the chemical industry is facing is the key to the chemical industry’s health.**
**PWC 09** (<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">PWC, chemicals industry advisory experts, “Cost Reduction,” earliest cited date at 2009, http://www.pwc.com/gx/en/chemicals/cost-reduction/index.jhtml, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A renewed focus on .... often at significant cost.</span>


**And the chemical industry is key to developing access to clean water.**
**Jones 07**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jones, PhilippaICIS Chemical Business, 9/17/2007, Vol. 272 Issue 10, p21-21, 1p CHEMISTRY'S IMAGE problem is not new Ebscohost</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Both Dow Chemical and BASF**__....__**</span> **__water and climate change."__**

**And this is a systemic problem. Lack of clean water kills 3,900 children every day.**
**Colby 11**
[[http://www.ecology.com/author/susan-colby/|**Susan Colby**]]**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span class="entry-date" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">November 18, 2011 http://www.ecology.com/2011/11/18/world-toilet-day/</span>**
**__According to the World ....__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> new systems to the area.</span>

**Additionally, a successful chemical industry is critical to developing lower emission vehicles.**
**Chang 11**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Chemical industry can help solve energy challenge - Dow CEO 01 February 2011 [[mailto:icisnews.americas@icis.com|Joseph Chang]] http://www.icis.com/Articles/2011/02/01/9431448/chemical-industry-can-help-solve-energy-challenge-dow.html</span>
**__The chemical industry .... electric vehicles__**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Liveris said.</span>



**And the current vehicle emissions contribute directly to 64,000 premature deaths in the United States every year.**
**Abbey 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://fresh-energy.org/2012/01/energy-101-electric-vehicles/|Energy 101: Electric vehicles]] POSTED 01.16.2012 by [[http://fresh-energy.org/author/ross/|Ross Abbey]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://fresh-energy.org/2012/01/energy-101-electric-vehicles/</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Plus,</span> **__the oil we use ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">electric vehicles is clear.</span>

**Fortunately, spending $2.5 billion on freight industry would reduce congestion and the costs associated with it.**
**Cooper et al 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Getting America’s Freight Back on the Move A Plan for Investing in Our Freight Infrastructure Keith Miller, Kristina Costa esearch assistant in economic policy at the Center., and Donna Cooper Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at American Progress. August 2012 pg 19</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Together, </span>**__these spending j....__** **__reducing congestion and costs.__**



**And companies will use freight infrastructure, like rails, if they are available.**
**Longman 2009** – <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Senior research fellow with New America Foundation, Schwartz senior fellow at Washington Monthly, senior writer and deputy assistant managing editor at U.S. News & World Report, graduate of Oberlin College, fellow at Columbia University (Phillip, “Back on Tracks”, The Washington Monthly, January/February 2009, http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/back_tracks_9914)</span>
**__The half-conscious decision ....__****__as they can by rail.__**

**Finally, only the comprehensive approach of the affirmative can solve. All the systems must work together.**
**Cooper et al 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Getting America’s Freight Back on the Move A Plan for Investing in Our Freight Infrastructure Keith Miller, Kristina Costa esearch assistant in economic policy at the Center., and Donna Cooper Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at American Progress. August 2012 pg 20</span>
**__While many nations invest ...__** **__the short and long term.__**

==**__Patriot Crossing 1AC__**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Contention 1- Inherency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The Patriot’s Crossing is being discussed but funding for the project keeps it derailed.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Dave Forster in 2012</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">April 5, 2012 Dave Forster (he Virginian-Pilot as the Suffolk public safety reporter in April 2006)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Virginian-Pilot Second hearing on Patriots Crossing pulls big crowd </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://hamptonroads.com/2012/04/second-hearing-patriots-crossing-pulls-big-crowd]]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">How Patriots Crossing ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">crazy," he said.</span>__**

===**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Plan- The United States Federal Government (specifically Congress and the DoD) should substantially invest in transportation infrastructure through the building of the Navy Triangle in Norfolk, Virginia. Funding, administration, enforcement, and logistics will be through necessary means.</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Contention 2- Solvency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The Navy Triangle Improvement is made of three parts.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">VDOT in 2013</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jan. 15, 2013 VDOT http://www.virginiadot.org/projects/hamptonroads/patriots_crossing.asp</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This would be .... Boulevard-Funds Pending</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">If the plan doesn’t pass then the Third Crossing will happen costing more money.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Messina in 2011</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Debbie MessinaThe Virginian-PilotJanuary 10, 2011 Crossing plan gets second wind with patriotic name </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://hamptonroads.com/2011/01/crossing-plan-gets-second-wind-patriotic-name]]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The Patriots Crossing ...</span>__****<span style="line-height: 1.5;">__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;"> of financial achievability."</span>__</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The plan will be important for the economy of the region and the nation.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">AASHTO in 13</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials January 4, 2013 Virginia DOT Partners with the U.S. Navy for New Intermodal Project http://www.aashtojournal.org/Pages/010413VDOTNavy.aspx</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">VDOT says </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">the ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;"> and the nation."</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The military is critical to the economy the only way to help is through the plan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">USDOT, FHA and VDOT in 2012</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">United State DOT, Federal Highway Administration, and Virginia DOT 11/30/11 </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.virginiadot.org/projects/resources/hampton_roads/Draft_HRCS_EA_11-30-11.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Environmental Assessment </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The 2001</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">HRCS ...</span>__** **__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">approved in the 2001 HRCS FEIS.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The plan increases the flow of goods which is key to the national economy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">UDOT 02</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(January 2002, </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/freight/freight_analysis/improve_econ/appa.htm#s1|http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/freight/freight_analysis/improve_econ/appa.htm#s1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, HS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Freight Transportation and ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">of economic performance</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Advantage 1- Economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The economy is struggling- outlays prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Alex Kowalski February 12, 2013</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/job-openings-in-the-u-s-decreased-in-december.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Job Openings Fell in December Amid U.S. Budget Battles: Economy</span>
__**The threat of ... reduce federal outlays**__

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The project helps four independent aspects of the economy: trade, employment, tourism and ports.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">USDOT, FHA and VDOT in 2012</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">United State DOT, Federal Highway Administration, and Virginia DOT 11/30/11 </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.virginiadot.org/projects/resources/hampton_roads/Draft_HRCS_EA_11-30-11.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Environmental Assessment </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The project’s purpose ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">the study area. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sustaining economic competitiveness is vital to preventing military retrenchment – risks great power wars</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Khalilzad, ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bush’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and former director policy planning at the DOD (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8-11, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Today</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">, economic and ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> era of multi-polarity.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">U.S. hegemony prevents global war, arms races and genocides</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">***</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bradley A. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Thayer</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Associate Professor in the Dept. of Defense and Strategic Studies at MissouriStateUniversity) </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2007</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> American Empire: A Debate, “Reply to Christopher Layne” p 108</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The fourth critical ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;"> peace and stability.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Jobs are more important to the economy than spending cuts</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Danny Thompson Columnist August 12, 2011</span>** Jobs are key to getting economy on track [[http://www.lasvegassun.com/news/2011/aug/12/jobs-are-key-getting-economy-track/]] date accessed February 12, 2013
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Some politicians would ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> jobs to out-of-state workers.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Scenario 2- Congestion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">First congestion is increasing in Virginia</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Virginia Performs February 1, 2013</span>**[[http://vaperforms.virginia.gov/indicators/transportation/trafficCongestion.php]] Traffic Congestion date accessed February 11, 2013
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Traffic congestion </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">presents .... seen since 1995.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Congestion hurts the economy and the environment </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Jessica McGroarty January 29, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Recurring and Non-Recurring Congestion: Causes, Impacts, and Solutions </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.uc.edu/cdc/niehoff_studio/programs/great_streets/w10/reports/recurring_non-recurring.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> date accessed February 11, 2013</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Congestion is an...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> normal travel time. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">The plan would solve congestion at half the cost of current projects</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Samuel Dowell and others June 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://calhoun.nps.edu/public/bitstream/handle/10945/7333/12Jun_Dowell_Sigmon_Livingston_MBA.pdf?sequence=1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Transportation Challenges in the </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">Hampton Roads, VA, Region Dowell is an officer in the Navy with a master of business administration from the naval post graduate school</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">After the study ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the third crossing</span>




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]