[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Wake Forest== 
===1AC=== 
Advantage 1 is the Navy

In the status quo, lack of icebreaking capabilities severely inhibits the ability for Naval Presence in the region
Walter 8-8-12 (Ensign Joseph P. Walter is a 2012 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy and a current student in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, USGC Captain Staff, August 8th, 2012, http://gcaptain.com/thin-ice-u-s-capability-lacking/)//moxley//
//Assessment of U.S. Naval Capabilities in Arctic//
//On the whole, DoD activity ... state activity in the Arctic.//

//2 Internal links//

//First, Russia is going to the Arctic – their dominance will allow them to prevent shipping and American involvement in Arctic trade//
//Burke et al. 8(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)//moxley
There is one geographic area ... as a faster trans-oceanic route.

Naval presence is the only way to ensure access to Arctic trade—key to American economic competiveness and economic leadership
Burke et al. 8(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)//moxley//
//Disruptions to global shipping and ... other interests in the Arctic.//

//Lack of engagement in trade and trade credibility causes trade blocs and global conflict//
//Bergsten 97 – Peterson Institute for International Economics (Fred C., “Global Trade and American Politics”, September 27, 1997, The Economist, [[http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291]])//
//Second, the trade policy credibility ...staying power in other respects.//

//Second is Power Projection//

//The Russian Navy is taking control of the Arctic – the plan is key to secured naval presence//
//Burke et al. 8 (Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)//moxley
At present, the Arctic geopolitical ... even influencing SLBM launch azimuths.

Access to the Arctic will allow future power projection capabilities for the Navy – it will be a geopolitical focal point for the next century
Akimoto 9 (Kazumine, Senior Research Fellow, Ocean Policy Research Foundation, “Power Games in the Arctic Ocean” October 20, 2009, http://www.institutenorth.org/assets/images/uploads/files/Power.pdf)//moxley//
//The changes in the Arctic ... will undergo a major upheaval.//

//Naval power projection solves great power war//
//Conway et al 7[James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]//
//Deter major power war. No ... projection enable extended campaigns ashore.//

//Advantage 2 is the ATS//

//First, The Antarctic Treaty is collapsing – the plan is key – sustainable Antarctic presence prevents collapse of stability//
//National Research Council 7 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley
Under the treaty, the United States ... their associated outlying field sites.

Scenario 1 is War

Collapse of the Antarctic treaty leads to armed conflict
Roura 11 (Ricardo, environmental geologist, “Antarctica’s Wilderness Values”, 2011, http://www.oneworldmagazine.org/focus/southpole/contmain.htm)//moxley//
//As we continue to move ...rely on this duel protection.//

//Most likely scenario – modeled worldwide//
//Yin 6-19-12 (Wenquin Yin, Chinese Journal of International Law, Moratorium in International Law, June 29th, 2012, http://chinesejil.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2012/04/18/chinesejil.jms032.full)//
//The intent and purpose of ... disputes will definitely arise again.//

//ATS is key to providing a framework for a solution to the South China Sea conflict//
//Bateman 9 (Security and International Politics in the South China Sea: Towards a co-operative management regime, pg 228-229)//
//Other legal regimes that could ... present Treaty is in force.//

//South China Sea conflict escalates and goes nuclear//
//Waldron 97 [Arthur, professor of Strategy and Policy at the Naval War College Commentary, [[http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp]], accessed on 7/19/12,]//
//Then there is Southeast Asia, which,... or Japan--or the United States.//

//Plan: The President of the United States should issue a Presidential Decision Directive mandating the investment in maintenance and construction of polar icebreakers.//

//Solvency//

//The Coast Guard would coordinate with many federal agencies to achieve long-term solvency//
//GAO 11 (An analysis of the reports assembled by various government offices 12/01/11 [Government Accountability Office] DHS-OIG “Report on the Coast Guard's Polar Icebreakers”//
//http://www.gao.gov/htext/d12254t.html//
//The Coast Guard also coordinates with federal agencies, ...Arctic, created in March 2010 to coordinate government wide implementation of National Security Presidential Directive 66/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 25.[Footnote 37]//

//Only a presidential directive aligns agency responsibilities for federal investment in icebreaking capabilities//
//National Research Council 7 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley
The committee finds that both ... align agency responsibilities and budgetary authorities.

A presidential decision directive is the only way to create sustainable icebreaking capability – aligns resources and delegates necessary budgetary authority
National Research Council 7 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley
The U.S. need for polar icebreaking .. agency responsibilities and budgetary authorities.

Federal government ownership key
NRC 07 (Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD” 2007 [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=1]] (Pitman)
Options to address U.S. Coast Guard ...newest and best available technology.

There’s funding for one ice breaker is in Obama’s budget- no links to your DAs
AD. 2/13/12.- Alaska Dispatch. [“Arctic icebreaker funded in Obama 2013 budget” < [[http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/arctic-icebreaker-funded-obama-2013-budget%3e%5dMRaina|http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/arctic-icebreaker-funded-obama-2013-budget>]MRaina]]
Alaska U.S. Sen. Mark Begich is into more than [[@http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/alaska-lawmakers-sink-pirate-fishing-ships|just blowing up ships]]. ...we still need more icebreaking capacity."

=Negative= 
==Wake Forest== 

===Round 1 vs. BCC [Neoliberalism]=== 
2NR: Elections DA, Utilitarianism good

===Round 3 vs. New Trier SK [CCS]=== 
2NR: T - TI

===Round 6 vs. Milton GV [Mayport]=== 
2NR: Cost Controls CP (process CPs bad, artificial competition bad)

==Counterplans== 

===Cost Controls CP=== 

====1NC==== 
**Text: If, and only if, the program cost of ___ does not exceed initial cost estimates by 10 percent more and adapts a prior spending framework as per the Puentes 2008 card, should the United States federal government enact the program. If the program cost does exceed initial cost estimates by 10 percent, the United States federal government should terminate the program.**

**The Counterplan solves and competes – it establishes an explicit cost-threshold for the plan BEFORE implementation**
Puentes 8 [“A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking American Transportation For The 21st Century,” g online @ http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2008/6/transportation%20puentes/06_transportation_puentes_report.pdf]
Lost in the dominant discussion .... federal funds should be a genuine consequence.

**And, failure to build-in a termination condition ensures cost-overruns – the plan’s advantages are gross over-estimations**
Postrel 11 [Virginia Postrel writes about commerce and culture, innovation, economics and public policy. She's the author of "The Future and Its Enemies. Postrel was described by Sam Tanenhaus as "a master D.J. who sequences the latest riffs from the hard sciences, the social sciences, business, and technology, to name only a few sources." She has been a columnist for The Wall Street Journal, The Atlantic, The New York Times and Forbes. From July 1989 to January 2000, Postrel was the editor of Reason magazine, which under her leadership was a finalist for the National Magazine Awards three times for essays and public interest journalism. A graduate of Princeton University, she lives in Los Angeles. “Too Many Public Works Built on Rosy Scenarios: Virginia Postrel” Bloomberg, 7/8/11, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-08/too-many-public-works-built-on-rosy-scenarios-virginia-postrel.html, accessed 7/17/12]//DLi//
//“Infrastructure” may be one ... no cost overrun, there’s no cost overrun.”//

//**That’s key to solvency and U.S. Economic Competitiveness**//
//Puentes 2k8 (“A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking American Transportation For The 21st Century,” g online @ http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2008/6/transportation%20puentes/06_transportation_puentes_report.pdf// um-ef)
Right now, federal transportation...our cities, and our families.

**And, failure to restore U.S. competitiveness crushes U.S. primacy—the impact is global war**
Khalilzad 2k11 (Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 2011 Zalmay, National Review, “The Economy and National Security,” February 8, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?pg=2, last accessed 5.25.12)
Today, economic and fiscal trends...make aggressive moves in their regions.

====2NC/1NR==== 
**And, 10 percent ought to be the cost-threshold – federal asset programs are the perfect model for the cp**
GAO ‘97 (Government Accountability Office, “Transportation Infrastructure Managing the Costs of Large-Dollar Highway Projects,” pg online @ http://www.gao.gov/assets/160/155775.pdf //um-ef)//
//While FHWA’s formal review ...... management of large-dollar highway projects.//

//**And, ONLY an on-going cost-benefit analysis can solve – ONLY instituting controls BEFORE the plan is not enough – projections will be wrong, resulting in overruns – there needs to be a measure of the plan AS it’s being carried out**//
//Flyvbjerg 2k9 (Bent, professor of planning at Aalborg University, Denmark. He is founder and director of the university’s research program on large-scale infrastructure planning, “Survival of the unfittest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, pg online @ http://www.sbs.ox.ac.uk/centres/bt/Documents/UnfittestOXREPHelm3.4PRINT.pdf// um-ef)
This does not show the ... also necessary, as we will see below.

And, failure to institute cost controls BEFORE the project begins means the stimulus advantage is a disad to the aff – negative repercussions for going over cost MUST be a part of the plan
Flyvbjerg 2k9 (Bent, professor of planning at Aalborg University, Denmark. He is founder and director of the university’s research program on large-scale infrastructure planning, “Survival of the unfittest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, pg online @ http://www.sbs.ox.ac.uk/centres/bt/Documents/UnfittestOXREPHelm3.4PRINT.pdf //um-ef)
Whether stimulus infrastructure ... how to do this were described above.

====Investor Confidence NB==== 
**Misleading estimates and subsequent cost overruns destroy investor confidence**
Westney No Date (“Assessing the risk in capital-intensive opportunities,” Penn Energy, http://www.pennenergy.com/index/petroleum/display/9183558829/articles/oil-gas-financial-journal/volume-8/issue-3/features/assessing-the-risk-in-capital-intensive-opportunities.html)
**Note- CapEx risk stands for Capital Expenditure Risk
Capital-intensive opportunities also have ... that drive economic value.

====Economy==== 
**turns the stimulus advantage**
Flyvbjerg 2k9 (Bent, professor of planning at Aalborg University, Denmark. He is founder and director of the university’s research program on large-scale infrastructure planning, “Survival of the unfittest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, pg online @ http://www.sbs.ox.ac.uk/centres/bt/Documents/UnfittestOXREPHelm3.4PRINT.pdf //um-ef)
In mid-2008, The Economist called ...the field of infrastructure investment

====Competition==== 
**Investment is only given to entities that prove they can handle efficiency and cost requirements**
National Transportation Policy Project 9 [“Performance Driven: A New Vision for U.S. Transportation Policy”, Bipartisan Policy Center, Page 6, 6-9-09, javi]
To keep pace with a growing ...produce results aligned with national goals.

====Link - General==== 

**The most COMPREHENSIVE study on TI shows the plan will be subject to cost-overruns**
Flyvbjerg 2k9 (Bent, professor of planning at Aalborg University, Denmark. He is founder and director of the university’s research program on large-scale infrastructure planning, “Survival of the unfittest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, pg online @ http://www.sbs.ox.ac.uk/centres/bt/Documents/UnfittestOXREPHelm3.4PRINT.pdf //um-ef)
Major infrastructure projects generally ...because projects get bigger.

====AT: Normal Means==== 
**Establishing penalties for cost-overruns is CRITICAL – the plan doesn’t have a penalty built-in**
Flyvbjerg 2k9 (Bent, professor of planning at Aalborg University, Denmark. He is founder and director of the university’s research program on large-scale infrastructure planning, “Survival of the unfittest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, pg online @ http://www.sbs.ox.ac.uk/centres/bt/Documents/UnfittestOXREPHelm3.4PRINT.pdf //um-ef)
(i) Transparency and public control ...planning, implementation, and operations.