[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Inherency</span>
First is inherency.
We don’t have the naval capabilities to adequately respond to crisis
Allen, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, 01
Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., "Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count%21," Sea Power, June 2001, jacob
During the height of the Cold War in the mid-1980s, the U
AND
more with less" posture of the 1990s can no longer be sustained.



The navy’s role has expanded – but it’s being crippled by a lack of resources
Whiteneck, et al.’10<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12.6667px;"> (Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; "The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?" Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, March 2010, p.4-21, ~~[~~[</span><span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf-http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf~~]~~]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12.6667px;">) </span>

For the past 60 years<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">…</span> naval BMD assets<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Economy</span>

====Advantage 1 is the economy==== 

====U.S economy fragile-Consumer Confidence declining==== 
**Zhang 12/11**(BY Moran Zhang Confidence In US Economic Growth Falls, Across The Board| December 11 2012 http://www.ibtimes.com/confidence-us-economic-growth-falls-across-board-932779)

Since the U.S. recessions start at the end of 2007, consumers
AND
need to rebound from below 2 percent to 3 percent," Dales said.

====Economic decline causes war==== 
Zalmay Khalilzad, was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, 2-8-2011, "The Econom and National Security" www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024
Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to
AND
leading the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity.

====Statistics and empirics are on our side==== 
Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

====Plan immediately stimulates through the economy==== 
James Cypher, Professor of Economics at CSU-Fresno, Dollars %26 Sense, July-August, 2002, p19(4)
The CEP attempts to show that the U.S. economy’s low level of
AND
floor" underneath the economy,helping to stabilize its otherwise erratic movement.


====Plan solves - Government spending stimulates econ==== 
Krugman 12<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, Nobel Prize Economics and Professor of Economics and Int. Affairs Princeton, 12</span> ~~[Paul, End This Depression Now, 2012, p. ~~]
In the middle of 1939 the U.S. economy was past the worst
AND
some more about the crisis of 2008, which plunged us into this depression
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Military</span>


====Advantage 2 is the military.==== 
Naval power prevents great power conflicts and is key to heg
Helprin 11( MARK HELPRIN, a senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter’s Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in Americas seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans, WSJ
~~[~~[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html-http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html/~~]~~])//
//Separated by the oceans from sources of raw materials in the Middle East, Africa//
//AND//
//and to prevent the wars attendant to imbalances of power and unrestrained adventurism.//


//Scenario 1 is War//
//Lack of US naval heg will result in global war//
//**Kagan’7**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Robert Kagan, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, "End of Dreams, Return of History", 7-19-2007, ~~[~~[</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html-http:</span>//www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html~~]~~]<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">This is a good thing, … </span>provide an easier path<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

====Scenario 2 is Iran,==== 

====Declining sea power means we lose access to the Strait of Hormuz==== 
Dyer, 10 - journalist and former intelligence analyst, served internationally for US Naval Intelligence from 1983 to 2004 (J.E, "Naval Decline: It Starts with the Small Stuff," 5-12-2010, ~~[~~[http://theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/-http://theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/~~]~~])
Each of the services has come in for its share of such criticism since 1991
AND
, Aegis cruisers and destroyers, attack submarines – and lots of them.

====Ensures escalation of conflict – draws the US in conventionally and prompts Iranian aggression==== 
Talmadge, 8<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Caitlin Talmadge, doctoral candidate in political science at the Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, former fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, "Closing Time: Assessing the Iranian Threat to the Strait of Hormuz," International Security, 33(1), Summer 2008, p.115-116, ~~[~~[http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge%20article.pdf-http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge article.pdf~~]~~])</span>
The United States’ ultimate military superiority vis-à-vis Iran is without question
AND
likely. This analysis has signiªcant implications for U.S. force posture

====That escalates to World War III and extinction==== 
Steinberg, 7 (Jeffrey, The People’s Voice, http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/cgi-bin/blogs/voices.php/2007/10/04/cheney_s_ouster_may_be_last_chance_to_st)
On Sept. 25, retired CIA officer Philip Giraldi penned a frightening piece for
AND
of intervention. As Giraldi concludes, "World War III has begun."

====Scenario 3 is China==== 

====Decreasing American naval presence leads to Chinese expansionism – that causes a Chinese arms race and Asian instability==== 
Helprin 11(Mark Helprin, senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter’s Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), "The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in America’s seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans", WSJ
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html //eR)
And yet the fleet has been made to wither even in time of war.
AND
past and sufficient to its future. Pity it if it does not.

====Absent increased American naval intervention, that leads to escalatory regional war which draws in the US==== 
**Klein 8/24** (Brian Klein, Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow, ex-US diplomat to China and India, writer and global strategist focusing on macroeconomic, geopolitical, and security issues, "Former US Diplomat: The Next Battlefield Will Be The South China Sea" http://www.businessinsider.com/the-south-china-sea-sparks-arms-race-2012-8, 8-24-12 //eR)
Tensions are rising again in Southeast Asia as competing claims over the resource rich South
AND
with a leadership transition underway in Beijing as nationalistic and even jingoistic tendencies rise
throughout the country. Appeasement also has its discontents. This is the fine line
AND
China should not underestimate U.S. resolve to maintain the peace.

====That causes nuclear war and extinction==== 
**Straits Times 2k** (Singapore, June 25, 2000, No one gains in war over Taiwan //eR)
The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American
AND
War was to assess Chinese actions according to the American way of thinking.

====Scenario 4 is Columbia==== 

====Colombia is experiencing civil unrest now—the guerrilla group FARC will continue offensive attacks and the Colombian military is not enough to solve==== 
**Wall Street Journal, 2011** ("Colombian Insurgents Vow a Battle," Darcy Crowe, Available online at ~~[~~[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203733504577022332960404076.html-http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203733504577022332960404076.html~~]~~], Accessed 07/13/2012)
The most powerful guerrilla insurgency in Latin America vowed to continue its rebellion on Sunday
AND
, named Pirulo and Conan, who were Mr. Cano’s constant companions.

====Carriers key to solve Columbian insurgency==== 
**RAND 6** ("LEVERAGING AMERICA’S AIRCRAFT CARRIER CAPABILITIES", John Gordon IV, Peter A. Wilson, John Birkler, Steven Boraz, Gordon T. Lee, Prepared for the US Navy, http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2006/RAND_MG448.pdf¶
Set later in this decade, the Colombian vignette is, like the Nigerian
AND
for surveillance and reconnaissance ¶ capabilities operating in a heavy-jungle environment.



====Columbian drug trade leads to bioterror and LNG spills==== 
Anthony T. **Bryan**, Director of the Caribbean Program – North/South Center, and Stephen E. Flynn, Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations, "Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation", 10-21-20**01**, http://www.cfr.org/publication/4844/terrorism_porous_borders_and _homeland_ security.html
Terrorist acts can take place anywhere. The Caribbean is no exception. Already the
AND
else to the clandestine manufacture and deployment of biological weapons within national borders.

Bioweapons cause extinction
Steinbruner 97<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (John Steinbruner, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, chair of the committee on international security and arms control of the National Academy of Sciences, December 22, 1997, Foreign Policy)</span>
That deceptively simple observation has immense implications. The use of a manufactured weapon
AND
for a global contagion of this sort but not necessarily its outer limit.


====Scenario 5 is airpower==== 
Air mobility is the vital internal link to overall air power – it’s declining now
Richard J. Hazdra, Major, USAF, Fairchild Paper, Air University Press August 2001 http://www.au.af.mil/au/aul/aupress/fairchild_papers/Hazdra/Hazdra.pdf
Since airlift was first used as a tool of national security during the Berlin airlift
AND
AMC to determine if it can realistically continue to meet national security requirements.




====Airpower deters multiple scenarios for nuclear war==== 
Zalmay Khalilzad and Ian O. Lesser. "Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century: Regional Futures and U.S. Strategy," 1998 http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/
The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American
AND
effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.




<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Plan</span>
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its aircraft carrier fleet.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Solvency</span>

====Plan solves, carriers are key to sea power, air mobility, and airpower overall==== 
Allen 01, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., "Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count%21," Sea Power, June 2001, jacob
Most fundamentally, naval forces, particularly those centered on large-deck carriers,
AND
divert additional carriers already forward-deployed for critical missions in other regions.
Nothing can challenge a US carrier, more carriers are the only way to preserve hegemony – all other solutions fail
Allen, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, 01
Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., "Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count%21," Sea Power, June 2001, jacob
Size and Mobility: The Keys to Survival During the Navy League’s Sea-Air
AND
really be "the right stuff" for the United States of America.

====Aircraft carriers are key to US power projection==== 
Rubel 11 (Professor Robert Rubel is Dean of Naval Warfare Studies at the Naval War College. "The Future of Aircraft Carriers", Naval War College Review, Autumn 2011, ~~[~~[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers-http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers~~]~~] EG)
Geopolitical Chess Piece. It has been the habit of American presidents and their advisers
AND
Soviet navy) the potential for a role/risk disconnect is magnified.

====Aircraft carriers key to Hegemony-power projection, airpower, and humanitarian intervention==== 
US Navy 12 ("Aircraft Carriers – CVN", Fact File, January 6, ~~[~~[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200%26tid=200%26ct=4-http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200%26tid=200%26ct=4~~]~~] EG)
Description Aircraft carriers are the centerpiece of Americas Naval forces. On any given day
AND
slated to be delivered in 2015 to replace USS Enterprise (CVN 65).


=Negative= 
==Blake== 
===Round 1 (Icebreakers)=== 
T in the US
Security K
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
===Round 3 (D and G)=== 
Framework
Cap K
USFG Word Pic
Cooption DA
Repressed Desires K
===Round 6 (HSR)=== 
T Vehicles
Cap K
Fiscal Cliff DA
States CP

===Round 7 (dredging)=== 
T Maintainence
Security K
Fiscal Cliff DA
Heg and Free Trade Turns