[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dehumanization AC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have an ethical responsibility to attend the way social regimes refuse to recognize some lives as human. Judith Butler [Prof. of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, University of California at Berkeley], Frames of War. New York: Verso (2009). pp. 138. "we ask normative ... those who will not" </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To recognize someone as human means to acknowledge the common tie of vulnerability shared by all humans.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [Prof. of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, University of California at Berkeley], Frames of War. New York: Verso (2009). pp. 138. "could the experience ... avow as loss?"</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Standard: rejecting dehumanization</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A) Denying due process allows torture. Daniel Fischlin [Prof. of English and Theatre Studies, University of Guelph] (2008): Terrorism, Security, and Selective Rights in an Age of Retributive Fear, Review of Education, Pedagogy, and Cultural Studies, 30:3-4, 253-274. "BBC news and ... human rights norms."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B) Targeted killing causes widespread suffering. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS AND CONFLICT RESOLUTION CLINIC (STANFORD LAW SCHOOL) AND GLOBAL JUSTICE CLINIC (NYU SCHOOL OF LAW), LIVING UNDER DRONES: DEATH, INJURY, AND TRAUMA TO CIVILIANS FROM US DRONE PRACTICES IN PAKISTAN (September, 2012). "there is significant ... to support themselves"</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Due process forbids targeted killing. Al-Aulaqi v. Obama: Government Kill Lists Target U.S. Citizens Far From Any Armed Conflict,” Center for Constitutional Rights. 7/17/2012. Accessed 10/6/2012. URL = http://ccrjustice.org/files/7.17.2012_Al-Aulaqi%20v.%20Obama%20Factsheet.pdf, "Outside of a ... international law permit."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C) US can suspend legal rights. Judith Butler [Prof. of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, University of California at Berkeley], Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence. New York: Verso (2006; First Published 2004). pp. 75-76. "In military tribunals ... possession, infinitely detainable." This is the ultimate act of dehumanization. [1] Judith Butler [Prof. of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, University of California at Berkeley], Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence. New York: Verso (2006; First Published 2004). pp. 63-64. "certain subjects undergo ... not fatally, politicized."</span>



==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Targeted Killing Disad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A) Uniqueness</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jane Mayer, “The Predator War: What are the risks of the C.I.A.’s covert drone program?” The New Yorker (Online), Oct. 26, 2009. Accessed October 5th, 2012. <http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2009/10/26/091026fa_fact_mayer></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "the predator program ... "high value" targets"</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B) Due process is inconsistant with targeted killing. [1] “Al-Aulaqi v. Obama: Government Kill Lists Target U.S. Citizens Far From Any Armed Conflict,” Center for Constitutional Rights. 7/17/2012. Accessed 10/6/2012. URL = http://ccrjustice.org/files/7.17.2012_Al-Aulaqi%20v.%20Obama%20Factsheet.pdf. "The constitution and ... to international killing"</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Targeted killing impairs functioning.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[1] Gal Luft [Doctoral candidate, Johns Hopkins University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies], “The Logic of Israel’s Targeted Killing,” The Middle East Quarterly, Vol. X, No. 1 (Winter 2003). pp. 3-13. <http://www.meforum.org/515/the-logic-of-israels-targeted-killing></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">. "Assassinations of military ... the organization's effectiveness.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Empirics prove. [1] Paul W. Staeheli [Major, United States Army; Candidate for Master of Science in Defense Analysis, Naval Post Graduate School], “COLLAPSING INSURGENT ORGANIZATIONS THROUGH LEADERSHIP DECAPITATION: A COMPARISON OF TARGETED KILLING AND TARGETED INCARCERATION IN INSURGENT ORGANIZATIONS,” Naval Postgraduate School Thesis (March 2010). "The empirical research ... 31 fell apart"</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorism creates escalating violence. Matthew Lippman [Professor, Department of Criminal Justice, University of Illinois at Chicago]. “THE NEW TERRORISM AND INTERNATIONAL LAW,” 10 Tulsa Journal of Comparative & International Law 297 (Spring, 2003). "The "new terrorists" ...to their ranks"</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Part 1 is moral epistemology.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Daniels describes reflective equilibrium. [</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">Daniels, Norman [Prof. of Population Ethics, Harvard University], "Reflective Equilibrium", </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition)</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/reflective-equilibrium] "the method of .... credibility for us"</span>
This method of moral reasoning is preferable because it recognizes that people have a complex sense of justice which they try to organize under systematic principles. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">John Rawls [American Philosopher, formerly Prof. at Harvard University], </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A Theory of Justice: Revised Edition</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (1971). P. 40-41. "we acquire a ... these principles are".</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Part 2 is the principles of justice. Original position is the only fair system. John Rawls [Professor of Philosophy, Harvard]. Theory of Justice. 1971. Oxford University Press. "there are certain ... with these restrictions"</span>
Difference principle:
1. the equal status of parties in the original position creates a presumption in favor of the difference principle.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">John Rawls [American Philosopher, formerly Prof. at Harvard University], A Theory of Justice: Revised Edition, Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (1971). P. 130-131. "consider the original position ... gained the least"</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2. society organized by the difference principle better commands the stable support of citizens over time. </span>
[1] John Rawls [American Philosopher, formerly Prof. at Harvard University], __A Theory of Justice: Revised Edition__, Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (1971). P. 154-155. "a conception of ... them in practice"

Part 3: Universal health care is necessary to secure equality of opportunity.
A) health care and health access is strongly correlated to measures of social capital.
Lack of insurance disproportionately affects the poor. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carmen DeNavas-Walt [United States Census Bureau] “Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance Coverage in the United States: 2010” . United States Census Bureau. "the uninsured rate ... more were uninsured"</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The uninsured have markedly worse health outcomes. Kao-Ping Chua [AMSA Jack Rutledge Fellow 2005-2006] and Flávio Casoy [AMSA Jack Rutledge Fellow 2007-2008], “The Case for Universal Healthcare,” AMSA, Web. (2008) Accessed 15 Oct. 2012. <http://www.amsa.org/uhc/CaseForUHC.pdf>. "the uninsured are ... HIV, and homicide"</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B) Universal solves for socioeconomic disparities in health status. Access to health care solves for health disparities. Robert Politzer [Department of Health and Human Services] “Inequality In America: The Contribution of Health Centers in Reducing and Eliminating Disparities in Access to Care”. Medical Care Research and Review. Vol 58 No 2. June 2001. "primary care services .... of private physicians"</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Empirics prove. </span>Leiyu Shi DrPH, MBA; Barbara Starfield, MD, MPH; Bruce Kennedy, EdD; Ichiro Kawachi, PhD. “Income Inequality, Primary Care, and Health Indicators”. Journal of Family Practice. Vol 48 No 4. April 1999. "controlling for the ... longer life expectancy"
The single payer system solves for health problems stemming from income inequality and access to care. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Barbara Starfield [Professor of Health Policy at Johns Hopkins University] Reinventing Primary Care: Lessons From Canada For the United States, Health Affairs May 2010 vol. 29 issue, 1030-1036. "An international comparison ... were controlled for"</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Countries with universal health care experience better overall health. PJ Veugelers, AM Yip [Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie University]. “Socioeconomic Disparities in Health Care Use: Does Universal Health Care Reduce Inequalities In Health?”. Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health. Vol 57 No 6. September 2002."lower socioeconomic groups ... differences in mortality". Americans are universally less healthy than citizens of countries with universal health care, especially in lower income groups. </span>Mauricio Avendano, PhD, M. Maria Glymour, ScD, James Banks, PhD, and Johan P. Mackenbach, PhD. Health Disadvantages in U.S. Adults Aged 50 to 74 Years. American Journal of Public Health. Vol. 99 No. 3. March 2009. "we found that ... of these disparities"
C) the impact of health status disparity. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Norman Daniels [Professor of Population Ethics and Professor of Ethics and Population Health, Harvard. "by keeping people ... of socioeconomic inequalities"</span>

==Negative== 
A) is the counterplan text: the united states will adopt a health insurance mandate with managed competition on the model of the Netherlands. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wynand PMM van de Van, Frederick T Schut [Erasmus University] “Universal Mandatory Health Insurance</span>with Managed Competition in the Netherlands: a model for the United States?” Itinera Institute. Forum. January 2008. "Policy analysts consider ... Fund compensates insurers"
B) Is the competition. definition of single payer. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kao-Ping Chua [AMSA Jack Rutledge Fellow 2005-2006] and Flávio Casoy [AMSA Jack Rutledge Fellow 2007-2008], “Single Payer 101,” AMSA, Web. (2008) Accessed 15=3 Oct. 2012. "Single payer refers ... care services delivered"</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C) is the net benefits. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1. A system of managed competition has 5 distinct economic advantages. </span>Alain C Enthoven [Stanford] “The History and Principles of Managed Competition” Health Affairs, 12, (1993):24-48. "Second, to offset .... by political forces"
2. The dutch system has been proven to maximize health care access and successful treatment outcomes. European Health Consumer Index 2012. Health Consumer Powerhouse, Arne Bjornberg."The Netherlands is ... system in Europe"
3. managed competition encourages innovation. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">TYLER COWEN. The New York Times. Poor U.S. Scores in Health Care Don’t Measure Nobels and Innovation. October 5, 2006. "The American government ... the United States"</span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]