[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Heritage Hall 1AC== 
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 18pt;">Observation One is Inherency</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey has lived up to its hype but Congress has refused to fund the last phase of the project. Thompson, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Dr. Loren B. Thompson, Loren B. Thompson is Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates, a for-profit consultancy. Prior to holding his present positions, he was Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and taught graduate-level courses in strategy, technology and media affairs at Georgetown, “V-22 Is The Safest, Most Survivable Rotorcraft The Marines Have,” 16 February 2011, [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/v-22-is-the-safest-most-survivable-rotorcraft-the-marines-have?a=1&c=1171]]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;"> CG</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Over the last ten […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">stay on track</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

===**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 20pt;">Thus the Plan: To increase the investment in transportation infrastructure the USFG will fully fund production of the V-22 Osprey aircraft. The Osprey will be made the primary aircraft for active transport in the United States Military in addition to being the aircraft of choice for responding to disasters within the United States. We reserve the right to fiat and will clarify in CX and all affirmative speeches. </span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 18pt;">Next is Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey key to efficient military deployment and maintaining deterrence posture. Fackler 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Fackler, Martin. "U.S. Sends New Aircraft to Okinawa, Despite Fierce Opposition." The New York Times. The New York Times, 02 Oct. 2012. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/02/world/asia/united-states-military-sends-ospreys-to-okinawa-despite-fierce-opposition.html?_r=3&]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> ) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">RR</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The first […]hot spots like Taiwan</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> and a group of disputed islands in the East China Sea known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey aircraft can help with rescue missions and the delivery of precious supplies including artillery, medical supplies, and troops while assisting with disaster response. Lenzo, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Lance Cpl. Timothy Lenzo, U.S. Marine combat correspondent and DVIDS Journalist, “Dawn Blitz prepares Marines for rapid crisis response,” DVIDShub.net, 28 September 2011, [[http://www.dvidshub.net/news/77741/dawn-blitz-prepares-marines-rapid-crisis-response#.UOE2xLYVwy7|http://www.dvidshub.net/news/77741/dawn-blitz-prepares-marines-rapid-crisis-response#.UOE2xLYVwy7]]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CG</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">CH-53E Super Stallions […] that,” said Rader</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

===**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 18pt;">Advantage One is Disaster Strikes</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Iran poses a bioterrorist threat Globally</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Bansak 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Kirk C. Bansak is a graduate student at the¶ Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at¶ Tufts University, 11/1/2011, Bulletin of The Atomic Scientist, Managing networks of risk:¶ A tailored approach to Iran’s¶ biological warfare threat¶ potential, EbscoHost] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ER</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">While Iran’s strategic […](Central Intelligence¶ Agency, 2003).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Specifically, Bioterror attack in 2013</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Graham and Talent 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Chairman Bob Graham and Vice Chairman Jim Talent,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism, “Hearing on the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prevention and Preparedness Act of 2010”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/hearing-on-the-weapons-of-mass-destruction-prevention-and-preparedness-act-of-2010]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ER</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">The Commission's Report […] nation state from its use.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey aircraft are k2 cutting down response time and sanitizing large scenes; this helps with disaster response. Dwyer, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Captain Dwyer Osprey pilot; experienced under multiple missions, “The Osprey: Bedrock For Con-Ops Change,” 8 October 2010, [[http://www.sldinfo.com/new-river-update-on-the-osprey-osprey-speed-and-range-enables-change/]]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CG</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Because of speed[..]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> __amazing__ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">for me</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Quick Response k2 stop Spread</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Tyshenko 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[MICHAEL G, PhD, MPA, McLaughlin Center for Population Health Risk Assessment, Bioethics, “MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL AND BIOTERRORISM INDUCED PANDEMICS” EbscoHost] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ER</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">Given the increasing […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">greatly reduced.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Not containing a biological attack leads to extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Ochs 02</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ER</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Of all the […] </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">bioweapons could cause</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

===**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 18pt;">Advantage Two is Hegemony</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey are the future of military forward deployment; the time is now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Rholes 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Ryan Rholes combat correspondent in support of the International Security Assistance Forces "From Concept to Reality: MV-22 "Osprey" Proves Itself in Combat." Boeing: Defense, Space & Security 2011 http://www.boeing.com/ospreynews/2011/issue_02/proven_s31_p2.html) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">RR</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> MV-22 </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Osprey</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[…]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> get into action.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">We isolate three internal links for why Osprey is key to United States Hegemony; first is Air Superiority</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey provides the military with capabilities unmatched by any other aircraft; it can improve military functions substantially. Pike, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[John Pike, site maintainer for GlobalSecurity.org, “V-22 Osprey,” GlobalSecurity.org, 7 July 2011, [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/systems/aircraft/v-22.htm]]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CG</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The aircraft is […] future maintenance actions</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">The second internal link is Military Readiness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">O</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">sprey usage key to U.S. military readiness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Braganca 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Braganca, Eric. Lieutenant Colonel Eric Braganca, USAF (Ret.), is a Consultant on Joint Operations with Whitney Bradley and Brown. His last military assignment was as Chief Systems Engineer for the CV-22 in the Joint Program Office."The V-22 Osprey:From Troubled Past to Viable and Flexible Option." JFQ-66: The V-22 Osprey. N.p., Oct. 2012. Web. 25 Dec. 2012. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/v-22-osprey.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">RR</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">Combat operations are […] reliance on sometimes questionable allies is</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">The third internal link is Power Projection</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">Osprey aircraft can be used for a variety of missions in multiple branches of the military; this improves power projection. Pike, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[John Pike, site maintainer for GlobalSecurity.org, “V-22 Osprey,” GlobalSecurity.org, 7 July 2011, [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/systems/aircraft/v-22.htm]]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> CG/RR</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The V-22 "Osprey" […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> maximum extent possible</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14pt;">American Hegemony is uniquely responsible for stopping world conflict – a world where they don't have hegemony is a world where the globe is bathed in flame and then plunged into darkness – no risk of a turn, US hegemony is net better than no US hegemony. Friedberg, 2010</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">. </span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Thomas Friedberg, From his book; “America: That Used to be US.”]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">One by one […]</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> our planet</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


==Harvard 1AC== 
=State TOC 1AC= 
==Contention 1: Inherency== 

====Nuclear renaissance is happening now –industry consensus==== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">McMahon, 2012</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">[Jeff Forbes, The Nuclear Renaissance Is Back, Industry Panel Says,</span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2012/09/27/the-nuclear-renaissance-is-back-industry-panel/]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Encouraged by a new poll […]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">only safe place to be for a utility.”</span>


====Waste will go to storage facilities like WIPP – deep geologic repository is key==== 

====<span style="background-color: white;">Buckner 3/2/13</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Saturday, March 2, 2013, Mel Buckner is a nuclear engineer and an adjunct professor in the Nuclear Program at the University of South Carolina, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/mar/2/buckner-us-irresponsibility-nuclear-waste/]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We are going to need a […] irresponsible political system is failing us.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">THUS THE PLAN: THE USFG SHOULD SUBSTAINALLY INCREASE ITS INVESTMENT IN THE INFRASTRUCTRE OF NUCLEAR WASTE TRANSPORT. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO FIAT AND CLARIFY IN CX AND ALL AFF SPEECHES</span>**

==Advantage 1: Nuclear Leadership== 
====Global Nuclear use will inevitably increase—the question is whether the U.S. can take the lead on nonproliferation.==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Rowley 8</span>** (Anthony, The Business Times Singapore, “US official sees global push towards nuke power,” 5/23, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A MASSIVE global expansion of the […] waste problems can be dealt with.</span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Dedicated infrastructure for the transport of nuclear waste is key </span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">NEI 13</span>**[Nuclear Energy Institute policy organization of the nuclear energy and technologies industry and participates in both the national and global policy-making process. "Key Issues." Nuclear Energy Institute 2013 </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nei.org/Key-Issues/nuclearwastedisposal/Transportation]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">] </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">RR</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Routing </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Used nuclear fuel […] security and shorter transit times.</span>


====Only the plan is a __concise__ and __workable__ approach to the nuclear waste issue—it creates an international consensus to follow the U.S. over reprocessing technologies.==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Lyman</span>**</span>10 <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Edwin S., Senior Staff Scientist Union of Concerned Scientists “LIMITING FUTURE PROLIFERATION AND SECURITY RISKS” Presentation to the Blue Ribbon Commission on America</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">‟</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">s Nuclear Future Reactor and Fuel Cycle Technology Subcommittee October 12, 2010, Washington, DC) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elimination of reprocessing would […]nuclear cooperation authority more effectively</span>


====A successful waste disposal system __sustains U.S. nuclear leadership__ and enables __effective nonproliferation initiatives__—other countries will let the U.S. handle their spent fuel.==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Bengelsdorf 7</span>** [Harold Bengelsdorf, consultant and former director of both key State and Energy Department offices that are concerned with international nuclear and nonproliferation affairs, 07 [“THE U.S. DOMESTIC CIVIL NUCLEAR INFRASTRUCTURE AND U.S. NONPROLIFERATION POLICY”, White Paper prepared for the American Council on Global Nuclear Competitiveness May, http://www.nuclearcompetitiveness.org/images/COUNCIL_WHITE_PAPER_Final.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Importance of Resolving the Nuclear Waste Issue […]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> sensitive nuclear facilities to other countries.</span>


====Continuation of worldwide reprocessing results in __nuclear proliferation__, __collapse of the NPT__, __nuclear terrorism__, and __nuclear accidents__—effective storage is key to solve.==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">UCS 11</span>**(Union of Concerned Scientists, “Nuclear Reprocessing: Dangerous, Dirty, and Expensive” April 5th, http://www.ucsusa.org/nuclear_power/nuclear_power_risk/nuclear_proliferation_and_terrorism/nuclear-reprocessing.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reprocessing is a series of […]scientific and technical consensus</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> needed to site a geological repository. </span>




====Proliferation creates multiple scenarios for nuclear war.==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Below 8</span>** [Below, Masters Thesis for School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, ’08 [Tim D.Q., Wing Commander, RAF; MA in Defence Studies, King’s College London; “Options for US nuclear disarmament: exemplary leadership or extraordinary lunacy?,” June 2008, Thesis for School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Proliferation. Roger Molander, of RAND Corporation, […]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> nuclear warfare by its allies or their opponents.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">54</span>




====Nuclear leadership solves—credibility is key to influence states __not to proliferate__.==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Bengelsdorf 7</span>** [Harold Bengelsdorf, consultant and former director of both key State and Energy Department offices that are concerned with international nuclear and nonproliferation affairs, 07 [“THE U.S. DOMESTIC CIVIL NUCLEAR INFRASTRUCTURE AND U.S. NONPROLIFERATION POLICY”, White Paper prepared for the American Council on Global Nuclear Competitiveness May, http://www.nuclearcompetitiveness.org/images/COUNCIL_WHITE_PAPER_Final.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is, therefore, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">essential that […] nuclear facilities to other countries.</span>


==Advantage 2: The Atom== 

====Nuclear plants are key to stability==== 

====<span style="background-color: white;">Community Science Action Guides 12</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[The Benefits of Nuclear Energy, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fi.edu/guide/wester/benefits.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> authors of "Community Science Action Guides" are practicing educators who worked with staff at The Franklin Institute and the Science Museum]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">RR</span>==== 
Nuclear power plants provide land […] reactors can be refueled while operating).


====New tech in development that solves the industries problems, but it needs more time==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Bullis 13</span>**</span> [Kevin Bullis, March 12 2013, MIT Technology Review’s senior editor for energy, “Safer Nuclear Power, at Half the Price”, [[http://www.technologyreview.com/news/512321/safer-nuclear-power-at-half-the-price/]]] <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">SM</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Transatomic Power, an MIT spinoff, […]</span> after the first investments in the company.

====Meltdowns cripple the grid and industry- Fukushima proves==== 

====<span style="background-color: white;">USA Today 11 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Editorial: Japan's nuke meltdown shouldn't close U.S. plants, 12/12/</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/story/2011-12-12/Japan-Nuclear-Regulatory-Commission/51850082/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">RR</span>==== 

For all its drawbacks, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear power [..] are stored in dry casks</span>


====Meltdowns are highly likely due to spent-fuel pools and nuclear waste==== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">Alvarez 12</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Robert, Senior Scholar at IPS, where he is currently focused on nuclear disarmament, environmental, and energy policies, “Improving Spent-Fuel Storage at Nuclear Reactors”, Winter, ISSUES IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, RSR) </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">RR</span>

Until the NAS completes its study[…] of migration to areas of lower contamination.

====This causes extinction – one meltdown is the equivalent to 100 nuclear bombs==== 

====<span style="background-color: white;">Lendman 11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Stephen, Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization, ¶ 03/ 13, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,”, The People’s Voice </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">] </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">RR</span>==== 

"For the past 23 years, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">it […]under a worse case scenario,</span> including far outside East Asia.

==Advantage 3: Development== 
====Without plan’s improved nuclear safety, meltdown is inevitable. US safety standards are k2 global nuclear safety and success==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sagan ’11</span>** (Sagan, Scott D. – Caroline S.G. Munro Professor of Political Science at Stanford University, Senior Fellow at the Center for International Security and Cooperation and the Freeman Spogli Institute, serves as the co-chair of the American Academy of Arts and Science's Global Nuclear Future Initiative, former lecturer in the Department of Government at Harvard University and special assistant to the director of the Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the Pentagon, served as a consultant to the office of the Secretary of Defense and at the Sandia National Laboratory and the Los Alamos National Laboratory, “The International Security Implications of U.S. Domestic Nuclear Power Decisions” 18 April 2011 [http://cybercemetery.unt.edu/archive/brc/20120621005012/http://brc.gov/sites/default/files/documents/sagan_brc_paper_final.pdf]) CT
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. has</span> historically <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[…]</span> of the nuclear terrorism threat.

====Developing countries need Nuclear Energy to meet demand==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ElBaradei ’11</span>** (ElBaradei, Mohammad – 1997-2009: director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency; 1984-1997: staff member at the IAEA; 1981-1987: adjunct professor of International Law at the New York University School of Law; 1980-1984: senior fellow in charge of the International Law Program at the United Nations Institute for Training and Research; 1964-1980: Egyptian Diplomatic Service (permanent missions of Egypt to the U.N. in New York and Geneva; in charge of political, legal and arms control issues, 1974-1978: special assistant to Egypt's foreign minister, “Future of Nuclear Energy” 24 October 2011 [http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204485304576644612165863314.html]) CT

Further development of nuclear […] the amount of electricity is very little."

====Plan makes safe global use of nuclear power possible. Energy access solves poverty, disease, death, and violence==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rhodes/Beller ‘2k</span>** (Richard Rhodes is the author of The Making of the Atomic Bomb, Dark Sun, and other books.

Denis Beller is a nuclear engineer and Technical Staff Member at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, “The Need For Nuclear Power” January/February 2000 [http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/55629/richard-rhodes-and-denis-beller/the-need-for-nuclear-power]) CT

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The world needs more energy</span>. […] air pollution and global warming...¶



==Contention 2: Ethics== 
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is our moral obligation to properly maintain our nuclear waste</span>**</span>==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">WNA 12</span>** [World Nuclear Association the international organization that promotes nuclear energy and supports the many companies that comprise the global nuclear industry "International Nuclear Waste Disposal Concepts." : Nuclear Waste : Nuclear Waste Disposal : World-nuclear.org Apr. 2012</span>http://www.world nuclear.org/info/Nuclear-Fuel-Cycle/Nuclear-Wastes/International-Nuclear-Waste-Disposal-Concepts/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">] </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">RR</span>
At present <span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is clear and […]</span> their research reactors.

====Moral obligation is embedded into the fabric of society- We must be held accountable for our nuclear waste==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Brook 11 </span>**[Brook, Andrew Chancellor's Professor of Philosophy and Cognitive Science "ETHICS OF WASTES: THE CASE OF THE NUCLEAR FUEL CYCLE." 2011 </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://http-server.carleton.ca/~abrook/NUCLEAR.htm]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">] </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">RR</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Since we are</span> the ones <span style="font-size: 12pt;">enjoying […]</span> just as much as of humans.

====Our moral obligation is most real world- We claim the most real world impacts which means you vote aff==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">NEA 13 </span>**[Nuclear Energy Agency s a specialized agency within the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an intergovernmental organization of industrialized countries "Ethical and Environmental Background to the Management of Waste." The Environmental and Ethical Basis of Geological Disposal of Long-Lived Radioactive Wastes </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oecd-nea.org/rwm/reports/1995/geodisp/ethical-environmental-considerations.html]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">] </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">RR</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The development and welfare […] to meet their own needs".</span>



=State TOC 1AC= 
=Negative= 
==1NC Biopower K== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt; text-align: left;">First, the link. The Aff’s support of transportation infrastructure policies are enframed in biopolitical approaches to life that attempt to control the population through systems of security and management</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Lundborg and Vaughn-Williams, 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">[Tom, Swedish Institute of International Affairs, and Nick, Associate Professor of International Security at the University of Warwick, “Resilience, Critical Infrastructure, and Molecular Security: The Excess of “Life” in Biopolitics.” International Political Sociology, Vol. 5. Issue 4. December 2011, 367-383, Accessed Online via Wiley Online Library]</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">Dillon and Reid deal with […]</span>**__<span style="font-family: Cambria;"> intensifying biopolitical control over life</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">.</span>__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">;Second, the impact. This biopolitical structure created by the aff establishes a kill-to-live mentality that justifies massive conflict and violence in the name of the protection and promotion of life</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Lundborg and Vaughn-Williams, 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">[Tom, Swedish Institute of International Affairs, and Nick, Associate Professor of International Security at the University of Warwick, “Resilience, Critical Infrastructure, and Molecular Security: The Excess of “Life” in Biopolitics.” International Political Sociology, Vol. 5. Issue 4. December 2011, 367-383, Accessed Online via Wiley Online Library</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Dillon and Reid begin their[…]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> order to make life live.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The alternative solves </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Rose-Redwood, 2006</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">[Reuben, Dept. of Geography @ Penn. State Univ. “Governmentaity, geography, and the geo-coded world.” Progress in human geography, 30.4, 2006, 469-486, Accessed online] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Blomley and Sommers (1999) also[…] in constructing governmental rationalities.</span>

==1NC XO CP== 
===Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order [INSERT PLAN HERE]=== 

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Obama has great discretion over policies with XOs</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Goldfarb 2/10/13 </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">[Goldfarb,, Zachary. "Obama Weighing Executive Actions on Housing, Gays and Other Issues." Washington Post 10 Feb. 2013 http://articles.washingtonpost.com/2013-02-10/business/37026076_1_actions-on-gun-violence-executive-actions-obama-administration]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama is […] forward on top priorities.</span>

XO’s on transportation don’t have to go through Congress – means the CP avoids politics
Scott <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thomasson</span>**</span>, (President of NewBuild Strategies LLC), 4/9/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12</span>, The Hill, "Finding infrastructure solutions, big and small," http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/politics/220605-finding-infrastructure-solutions-big-and-small,

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The stalled highway bill […] for congressional approval</span> or new steering committee plans.

Executive orders increase presidential power
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Risen 4</span>**</span> [Clay, Managing editor of //Democracy: A Journal of Ideas,// <span class="commentstext">M.A. from the University of Chicago</span> “The Power of the Pen: The Not-So-Secret Weapon of Congress-wary Presidents” The American Prospect, July 16, [[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_power_of_the_pen]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the modern era, </span><span class="underline">[…] relations to reproductive health</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>




==Path to Citizenship – 1NC Shell== 
===A. Uniqueness.=== 
====Immigration reform likely but negotiations are delicate==== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Indo-Asian News Service 2/14</span>/2013, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[“If Congress fails to act on immigration, I will: Obama,” Lexis]</span>
The senators in turn […] to make the system work better.

===B. Internal links=== 
1. Political capital. President Obama will need to use political capital for CIR, it’s not sure to pass and other legislative priorities like the plan are a threat

Michael Shifter, President, Inter-American Dialogue, 12.27.12
[http://www.thedialogue.org/page.cfm?pageID=32&pubID=3186]
Not surprisingly, Obama has […] from other priorities like immigration.

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2. New agenda items like the affirmative risk sidetracking cir</span>

Miami Herald 1.14.13
[http://www.miamiherald.com/2013/01/14/3178620/immigration-reform-cant-wait.html]
Although President Obama promises to […] deal with other pressing issues.

===C. Impact.=== 
====Positive immigration policy is key to human rights==== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Reyes 09 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Reyes, Hector A. “The Human Rights Factor in United States Immigration Policies.” Human Rights and Latin American Cultural Studies. Ed. Ana Forcinito and Fernando Ordóñez. Hispanic Issues On Line 4.1 (2009): 150–173. http://spanport.cla.umn.edu/publications/HispanicIssues/pdfs/REYES.pdf)</span>
The commencement of an open […] to develop this argument worldwide
====Violation of human rights is a prerequisite to dehumanization==== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Esmeir 06 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Esmeir, Samera LL.M., PhD, New York University</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Associate Professor teaching the intersection of legal and political thought, Middle Eastern history and colonial and post-colonial studies. "On Making Dehumanization Possible." Oct. 2006 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://urbanstudiesprogram.files.wordpress.com/2011/07/pages-from-esmeir-human.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
Second, the transformation of humanity […] the declaration of this status.

Dehumanization is a prerequisite to all atrocities and it must be rejected in every instance –
**Maiese, '03** (Michelle, Research staff member for Conflict Research Consortium, "Dehumanization", [[http://intractableconflict.org/m/dehumanization.jsp|**http://intractableconflict.org/m/dehumanization.jsp**]] TD)
Dehumanization is a psychological process […] seem reasonable, or even necessary.


Dehumanization outweighs all other impacts
Berube, 1997
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Berube, David. Professor. English. University of South Carolina. “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side.” 1997. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]]</span>.)</span>

Assuming we are able to […]is evil's most powerful weapon.