=**INDEPENDENT BC**= 
----
----
----
[[toc]]
=Theory - Ask me and I'll be happy to talk about T and theory I've gone for in the past.= 

Topicality (so far):
Restorative justice is not topical aff ground.
Res is a question of Aim of Punishment
Punishment is distinct from rehabilitation.
Res is a question of implementation.
Ought is defined as maximizing wellbeing

=January-February - I have multiple ACs and will do what I can to meet your theory interp before round. Just ask me if you have any requests (like not to read a specific plan if you think it's untopical, or defend aim of punishment > implementation). We can talk and figure something out.= 
==Affirmative== 
**Plan Text:** The United States Federal Government should remove the severity, prosecution cooperation, and single employer requirements of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act and amend the Act to rely on a self-application process.
**Plan Text:** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">In the United States, all adults and juveniles will be treated in a criminal justice system that emphasizes rehabilitation over retribution through Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) with anger control and interpersonal problem solving components as a mandatory program for convicted high risk offenders. __**(Cut from Harker's Wiki, full disclosure is there.)**__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Plan Text:** </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">The United States Federal Government will allow prisoners in the United States criminal justice system to receive Pell Grants by repealing Section 20411 of the VCCLEA. __**(Cut from Adam Tomasi's Wiki, full disclosure is there.)**__</span>
**Plan Text:** The United States Criminal Justice System will abolish the use of solitary confinement for offenders under the age of eighteen.

==Negative:== 
Politricks

= = 

[[media type="custom" key="22048258"]]