[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=Plan= 

====The United States federal government should provide transportation infrastructure investment for plastic reinforcement of highways in the United States.==== 
=Contention 1: Roads= 
====World economy fine now; US dollar strong.==== 
KEYC, sept 14th
(KEYC, World stocks jump on Fed pledge for US economy. Published September 14th 2012 [[http://www.keyc.tv/story/19541675/asia-stocks-rally-on-fed-pledge-to-help-us-economy%20Accessed%209/19/12|http://www.keyc.tv/story/19541675/asia-stocks-rally-on-fed-pledge-to-help-us-economy Accessed 9/19/12]] CSmith)

MILAN (AP) - <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">World stock markets shot …… to 78.08 yen from 77.45 yen.</span>


====Corrosion is the primary source of concrete failure-fiber reinforced plastic solves==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MDA No Date</span> (Market Development Alliance, “Fiber-Reinforced Polymers (FRP) Composite Dowel Bars a 15 Year Study”, [[http://aslanfrp.com/Aslan600/Resources/15yr%20Durability%20Study-MDA.pdf]], accessed 9/12/12, GU)

Corrosion <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of mild steel ……dowel bars </span>with confidence.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
====American roads are falling apart==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gage 2010 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Deborah Gage, has written for the San Francisco Chronicle, Minnesota Public Radio, Baseline and various magazines and newspapers, “America’s Roads Are Falling Appart”, September 28th 2010, </span>
__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">California</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> may be home ……..</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> more preventive care.</span>__


====Fiber Reinforced Plastics solves- can fully repair highways and bridges at a fraction of the cost, time and has already been tested in multiple states.==== 
**Griffiths 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jennifer R. Griffiths, CSA Editor, Materials Business File/Business Alerts B.A. (Environmental biology), Smith College, Northampton, Massachusetts, Proquest, Plastic Highway Bridges Published November 2000, [[http://www.csa.com/discoveryguides/bridge/overview.php]], Accessed 6-18-12)(CSmith)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout the world, </span>__……..__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the material to the column.</span>

====Roads are the internal link of all internal links to economy==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bragdon8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Clifford R. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Vice President for Strategic Initiatives and Executive Director of the Florida Tech Research Park at Florida Institute of Technology. Former Associate Provost and Dean of the University of Florida. Former Distinguished Professor and Executive Director of the Center for Intermodal Transportation Safety and Security, CITSS, (a consortium of all public universities in Florida), established and funded by the U.S. Congress. Former Director and Vice-President of the National Aviation and Transportation Center and Dean for the School of Aviation and Transportation at Dowling College, Long Island, New York. __Transportation Security.__ 2008 Published by Elsevier-Academic and Butterworth Press)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Note that AASHTO refers to …….. Building in Oklahoma Ciiv in April 1995 (TSA. 2006).¶ </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: right;">
</span>
====AND The US is key to the global economy – they’re interlinked==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kohn</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">6/26/</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">08 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Donald L., PhD – Econ “Global Economic Integration and Decoupling” http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/kohn20080626a.htm) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Global Integration through Trade and Finance ……. the traditional trade linkages.</span>
==== ==== 
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Economic decline sucks </span>==== 
====A. makes war almost certain==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ancillary to those views.</span>

====B. Economic collapse would lead to the spread of AIDs, famine, sickness, crime, and cause global ethnic wars leading to the extinction of civilization.==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Silk 93</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard Silk, Professor of Economics at Pace University and Senior Research Fellow, “Dangers of slow growth”, 1993)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the absence of ……..</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">open economies and societies</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====C. <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Econ collapse leads to social differences escalating </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Baldacci et al, 02 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">– Emanuele, Economists at the International Monetary Fund (“Financial Crises, Poverty, and Income Distribution”, The International Monetary Fund, 06/01/02, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://people.ucsc.edu/~hutch/Lund/Financial%20Crises%20and%20Poverty%20FD%20June%202002.pdf)/|http://people.ucsc.edu/~hutch/Lund/Financial%20Crises%20and%20Poverty%20FD%20June%202002.pdf)//]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> SKRG</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">This issue is important because …….</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and wages and salaries.</span>

====And, Poverty is a structural violence that creates a cycle of oppression where certain lives are prioritized over others.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gilligan</span>, (Dept. of Psych. @ Harvard Med & Dir. of the Center for the Study of Violence) <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1996</span>
[James, Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes p. 191-196]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">You cannot work for ……..</span> as cause to effect<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>


=Contention 2: Solvency= 

====Concrete will be used for road construction now==== 
**Portland Cement Association 12** (Portland cement Association. Pavements, Highways, Published 2012 [[http://www.cement.org/pavements/pv_cp_highways.asp]], Accessed 6-19-12)(CSmith)

Concrete played a major <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…… because of its durability.</span>

====FRP’s have already been tested successfully and offer multiple advantages over conventional repair means, including resistance to corrosion. Stands up to earthquakes and are extremely quick to deploy meaning no traffic interruptions involved with other methods.==== 
**Aref and Parsons 6/20**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(A.J. Aref, i.D. Parsons, a Department of Civil Engineering, The State University of New York, Department of Civil Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Science Direct, Design and performance of a modular fiber reinforced plastic bridge. Published June 2000. [[http://ac.els-cdn.com/S1359836800000305/1-s2.0-S1359836800000305-main.pdf?_tid=2e00b93e4239dd23757f648d910df652&acdnat=1340218298_8b4a0dcc5d44f83894cb4881df8c1977]], Accessed 6-20-12)(CSmith)</span>
__A number of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fiber-reinforced ……. subjected to seismic activity.</span>

====The federal government is key to attract investors==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">National Cooperative Highway Research Program 2003</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"NCHRP Report 503: Application of Fiber Reinforced Polymer Composites to the Highway Infrastructure"</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, <span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2003, Page 18, </span>[[http://books.google.com/books?id=eGhWVkrLB6YC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=eGhWVkrLB6YC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, GU) </span>
The government has the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">……. of a long-term market.</span>

====Fiber Reinforced Plastics can fully repair highways and bridges at a fraction of the cost, time and has already been tested in multiple states.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griffiths, November </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jennifer R. Griffiths, CSA Editor, Materials Business File/Business Alerts B.A. (Environmental biology), Smith College, Northampton, Massachusetts, Proquest, Plastic Highway Bridges Published November 2000, [[http://www.csa.com/discoveryguides/bridge/overview.php]], Accessed 6-18-12)(CSmith)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout the world, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">……</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> material to the column.</span>

====Plastic Highways are able to reduce the amount of plastic in landfills, can withstand harsh weather conditions, and make roads sturdier, India proves.==== 
**<span style="background-color: #fafafa; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">Rai 2009 </span>**//<span style="background-color: #fafafa; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">(Saritha Rai, Writer for the Global Post, December 15th 2009, “Riding India’s plastic highway”, </span>//[[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/india/091211/plastic-road,Global|//http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/india/091211/plastic-road,Global//]]//<span style="background-color: #fafafa; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;"> Post, Accessed 9/4/12, JK)</span>//
<span style="background-color: #fafafa; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">BANGALORE, India — </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The roads in booming …….</span><span style="background-color: #fafafa; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;"> for a kilogram of plastic collected.</span>

=Contention 3: Framing= 

====Now is key-economy is not resilient and action solves==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MNI, 9/18</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Market News International, “Chicago Fed’s Evans: US Economy Simply Not Resilient Enough”, Forelive, 9/18/12, [[http://www.forexlive.com/blog/2012/09/18/chicago-feds-evans-us-economy-simply-not-resilient-enough/]], KJ)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span>Our economy today is ……. vibrancy of the economy.”

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">High risk means you evaluate econ collapse first </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Broward April 9, 2009 </span>
(“Will an Economic Collapse Kill You?”) http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/ June 28, 2009)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now its time to look at the ……..</span> //facing us in the 21st century.//
====Global recession causes more deaths then a regional war-happens in a short time frame==== 

====Business World 1/8/98==== 

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A global recession will make the ……. how urgent the situation is.</span>==== 


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Growth is sustainable -- resource scarcity can be corrected by technology. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Haynes 2008</span> (Beth Haynes, Professor of Economics at Brigham Young University-Hawaii, “Finite Resources vs. Infinite Resourcefulness”, 8/19/08 http://wealthisnottheproblem.blogspot.com/2008/08/finite-resources-vs-infinite.html//Mkoo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our consumption is excessive…….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">consistently been proven wrong. </span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
==1NC DA== 
====1. The U.S.’s credit rating is at risk, failure to maintain fiscal discipline will cause a downgrade==== 
<span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 16px;">Odion-Esene</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, Market News International, </span><span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 16px;">6/8/12</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Brai “S&P: Cld Downgrade US By 2014 If Fiscal,Political Risks Build”, https://mninews.deutsche-boerse.com/index.php/sp-cld-downgrade-us-2014-if-fiscalpolitical-risks-build?q=content/sp-cld-downgrade-us-2014-if-fiscalpolitical-risks-build</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">WASHINGTON (MNI) - Rating agency …..case currently presumes."</span>


====2. Deficit spending raises chances of downgrade—fiscal consolidation solves==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: black; font-family: calibri; font-size: 17px;">Newsmax 12</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> Newsmax, 6/7/12, “Fitch: US Risks 2013 Rating Downgrade Without 'Credible' Deficit Plan,” Newsmax, http://www.newsmax.com/Newswidget/Fitch-US-Rating-Cut/2012/06/07/id/441536?promo_code=EF02-1&utm_source=Shark&utm_medium=nmwidget&utm_campaign=widgetphase1</span></span></span>
<span style="color: black;">Fitch Ratings reiterated ……</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> Japan, Parker said.</span>


====3. Credit downgrade destroys the economy-lack of investor confidence and privates crowd outs==== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Goldwein 8/11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Marc, senior policy analysis for the fiscal policy program at the new America foundation and associate director of the national commission on fiscal responsibility and reform, “Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-DowngradeAmerica”,8/11/11, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/]], KJ)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">What are the consequences …..</span><span style="font-family: calibri;"> out the U.S. government.</span>

====4. Foreign investors own half of the USs stock. Investor dropout would literally collapse the economy overnight==== 
<span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 17px;">Eichengreen, 06</span>
(Barry Eichengreen. Department of Economics, University of California, Berkeley. ScienceDirect Global imbalances: The new economy, the dark matter, the savvy investor, and the standard analysis. Journal of Policy Modeling 28 (2006) 645–652 Accessed 8/28/12

The standard analysis that …..will not be forthcoming.

====5. Economic collapse kills millions and sparks great power wars==== 
<span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 17px;">Duncan, 12 </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Richard Duncan, chief economist Blackhorse Asset Management former IMF consultant and financial sector specialist for the World Bank, “The New Depression: The Breakdown of the Paper Money Economy, 12, ebook)</span>

<span style="font-family: calibri;">The political battle over …….approximately 60 million people</span>**__<span style="font-size: 17px;">.</span>__**



=1NC CP= 

====Counterplan Text:==== 


====The United States Federal Government should subsidize interest payments for relevant municipalities’ issuance of Build America Bonds, for the exclusive financing of <insert plan> and also offer tax breaks from profits produced from <insert plan>.==== 


====Topicality gets us easy competition==== 

====BABs give states the capital to rebuild vital infrastructure==== 
<span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 17px;">CNN Money 10</span>
(“Another blow to state budgets: Build America Bonds end,” December 22, 2010, http://money.cnn.com/2010/12/22/news/economy/build
_america_bonds/index.htm)
<span style="font-family: calibri;">Under the Build …… fund these projects."</span>

====Investment requires spending on the actual __goods__ for the infrastructure itself==== 
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Riliey 6</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Geoff Riley, Eton College, September 2006, “Capital Investment and Spending”, [[http://tutor2u.net/economics/revision-notes/as-macro-capital-investment-spending.html]])</span>
||   ||
||   ||
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Definition of Capital Investment</span>
Capital investment is<span class="TitleChar"> …..</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> country’s productive capacity.</span>


====Finance means to manage money-we’re not topical==== 
<span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 17px;">TheFreeDictionary No Date</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(The Free Dictionary, online dictionary, http://www.thefreedictionary.com/financing)</span>

1. The science of the management of money and other assets.
2. The management of money, banking, investments, and credit.
==== ==== 
====More solvency-bond issuance creates key local initiatives that encourages individuals to carry on the plan.==== 
<span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 17px;">DHCD, No Date Given</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Department of Housing and Community Development, The Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development Facilitates Bond Sale to Benefit Six Municipalities</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">$27.9 million provided for local government infrastructure projects, [[http://www.dhcd.state.md.us/website/about/PublicInfo/NewsEvents/newsDetail.aspx?newsID=281]], KJ)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">“</span><span style="font-family: calibri;">Investment in our …… State of Maryland.</span>


====<span style="font-family: calibri;">Money is easily generated-muni bonds are great </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 17px;">Rosen 11 </span>
<span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 11px;">(Jan M. Rosen, writer for nyt, New York Times, “Muni Bonds Are Stars, for Now”, 10/9/11, lexis, KJ)</span>

<span style="font-family: calibri;">DESPITE warnings of …… ''the fabric of a community.''</span>


====CP avoids credit downgrade-muni bonds are pre-funded==== 
<span style="font-family: calibri; font-size: 17px;">Global Investor 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Global Investor, “Municipal credit can withstand US downgrade”, August 11, lexis, KJ)</span>

<span style="font-family: calibri;">A US sovereign ……</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">downgrade," said Friedland.</span>