NDHS Max/Christian
2N: maxlubell@gmail.com
I will post most things from my 1NCs besides that I will post on request especially true if it was in a 2nr

Needs cites from the 2a? Want to have a friendly chat?
2A: chbn95@gmail.com



[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Plan== 


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government should issue land grants for the development of a Bering Strait crossing.</span>**

==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Advantage 1 Cooperation</span>== 


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> The reset is failing - Magnitsky will temporarily derail the reset but it opens up the possibility for a long term solution</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Washington Times 12</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Ilan Berman is vice president of the American Foreign Policy Council., 11/6/12, "BERMAN: U.S.-Russia ‘reset’ hasn’t changed stance", </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/nov/6/us-russia-reset-hasnt-changed-stance)/CN|www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/nov/6/us-russia-reset-hasnt-changed-stance)//CN]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> You might. …………….So do the Russian champions of transparency and democracy, who are still with us and desperately in need of solidarity from the West</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Magnitsky will cool but not wreck relations --- statements from Russian officials are overhyped rhetoric – not policy statements</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> **Ekaterina Zabrovskaya 12** --- Will the Magnitsky blacklist sour U.S.-Russian relations?, Russia Beyond the Headlines,</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://rbth.ru/articles/2012/06/19/the_magnitsky_blacklist_may_sour_us-russia_relations_15900.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">//CN//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> A recent statement from Russia’s ………….. initiative is expected to be approved no later than the beginning of August.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Relations are too parochial and there is no agenda – Obama needs a new approach and to appease Putin – Jackson Vanik isn’t sufficient</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Simeone 2k12</span>**//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Mark Simeone is a research intern with the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a current graduate student at Georgetown University in the Center for Eurasian, Russian & East European Studies. “U.S.-Russia Relations and the 2012 U.S. Presidential Elections: “Reset” or “Overcharge,” pg online @ </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://csis.org/blog/us-russia-relations-and-2012-us-presidential-elections-reset-or-overcharge)/CN|http://csis.org/blog/us-russia-relations-and-2012-us-presidential-elections-reset-or-overcharge)//CN]]</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Russia, ………………..with a second Obama Administration.</span>//




//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Relations are inevitable, it’s a question of effectiveness – they are net beneficial**</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Collins and Rojansky '10</span>**//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (James F. Collins, director of the Russia and Eurasia Program and expert on USSR, Matthew Rojansky, deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment, "Why Russia Matters", 8/18/10,www.carnegieendowment.org/2010/08/18/why-russia-matters/3si</span>//CN



<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> A year and a half …. relations with Russia. And good relations would be even better. </span>





**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Terrorism causes Extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Ayson 10</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Robert Ayson 10, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> A terrorist nuclear attack, and …..this concern as a tacit form of sympathy or support for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Disease causes Extinction</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> **Yu 09** [Victoria, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” Dartmouth Journal of Undergraduate Science, May 22,[[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate|**http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate**]]]//CN</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">A pandemic will kill off all …..— into a human-viable strain (10).</span>




<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Souring of relations emboldens Russia and makes war inevitable – deterrence doesn’t check**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Cohen '10</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., 4/12/10, "Obama's Approach to Arms Control Misreads Russian Nuclear Strategy", </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/04/obamas-approach-to-arms-control-misreads-russian-nuclear-strategy)/CN|www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/04/obamas-approach-to-arms-control-misreads-russian-nuclear-strategy)//CN]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> At the …. Russia reserves the right to the pre-emptive use of nuclear weapons, strategically or tactically.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And it makes miscalc likely – START doesn’t solve</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Cohen ‘10</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Journal: Is the current U.S. policy …..mainstream media, or, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">All your defense is factually incorrect – war is bad!</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> SGR '08</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Scientists for Global Responsibility, Autumn 2008, Issue 36, "High-alert nuclear weapons: the forgotten danger", </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf)/CN|www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf)//CN]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Official denials US officials have, in the past, ….., and have called for a new global nuclear environmental treaty. 44</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Bering Strait tunnel immediately reforms relations and cements long term cooperation</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Barry '11</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summite Council for World Peace, 10/4/11, "Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Projectin the United States and Canada", </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.interbering.com/Advancing-Bering-Strait-Tunnel.html)/CN|www.interbering.com/Advancing-Bering-Strait-Tunnel.html)//CN]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> The Russian Impact on the U.S. and Canada Aside from building an ACRL, which would be the foundational stage, stage….but entire continents and hemispheres. It should be seen as a great global task of permanent peace-building.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Bering Strait project allows for US investment in the Russian Far East – this is essential to making the reset viable</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Douglas 2k10</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Rachel, “Russia Seeks To Develop Far East; Invites U.S. Role,” pg online @</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2010/3702rus_invite_us.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> An Invitation to the U.S.A. A review of ….. and rebirth of the importance of the Port of Magadan on the Sea of Okhotsk." </span>


==**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Advantage 2 Asia Econ</span>**== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Asian growth is headed towards a downward spiral and collapse</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Vos '12</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Rob Vos, Director of Development Policy and Analysis Division at UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, "World Economic Situation and Prospects 2012 Update as of mid-2012*", Mid 2012, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.un.org/en/development/desa/policy/wesp/wesp_archive/2012wespupdate.pdf)/CN|www.un.org/en/development/desa/policy/wesp/wesp_archive/2012wespupdate.pdf)//CN]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Global growth projected to slow, …… underemployment in Latin America and East Asia seems to have reduced marginally </span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">No one will do anything about it</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Reuters 10/8</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Reuters, "World Bank warns China's slowdown could get worse," pg online @ www.scmp.com/business/economy/article/1056309/world-bank-warns-china-risks)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The World Bank cut its economic ….. a rebound in home prices and a possible reversal of hot money flows.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The tunnel is feasible and takes 10 years to build – it would connect all of Asia</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Cerny '07</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Louis T. Cerny, former Executive Director of the American Railway Engineering Association, "No Technical Limits to Bering Strait Project", 7/6/07, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2007/3427cerny_on_bst.html)/CN|www.larouchepub.com/other/2007/3427cerny_on_bst.html)//CN]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> If someone …… land transport all the continents of the world except Australia and Antarctica.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">It would stimulate integration and growth throughout Asia</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Barry '11</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, Washington, DC, "M.P. Barry: Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada", 10/4/11, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada)/CN|www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada)//CN]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> This paper investigates potential avenues …… far less than conducting wars to maintain security.[5] </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Asian infrastructure boosts trade and stimulates economic growth</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Fan '10</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Zhai, Fan, Asian Development Bank Institute in Tokyo, "The benefits of regional infrastructure investment in Asia: A quantitative exploration", June 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[https://www.econstor.eu/dspace/bitstream/10419/53634/1/631101497.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 1. INTRODUCTION Rapid trade expansion has …..54.7% in the scenario of development of transport, communication, and energy infrastructure </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Independent of growth – increased integration solves the impact</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Granberg 2k7</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Alexander Granberg Academician, Chairman of Chairman of the State Research Institution «Council for Study of Productive Forces» (SOPS)pg online @ </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/2007_20-29/2007-24/pdf/forum_7.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The geopolitical advantages are ….. deposits have been discovered in the project impact zone in the Barents and Okhotsk Seas. </span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The impact is major power war</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Auslin 2k9</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Michael, Resident Scholar @ AEI, Weekly Standard, “Averting Disaster Preventing the worst case scenario in Asia”,[[http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/115jtnqw.asp|**http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/115jtnqw.asp**]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> AS THEY DEAL WITH a collapsing world economy, …..important, Washington must get clear assurances from its allies that they will stand with us should hostilities erupt and that any aggressor will be met with a united front. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Solvency</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Land grants create the necessary motivations for the plan while avoiding your disads</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Burroughs 2k9</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Craig Burroughs MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School, B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University, is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads pg online @ </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.html)/CN|http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.html)//CN]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FUNDING POSSIBILITIES The big question in any …..interest on their investment in the railroad’s bonds. </span>



=Negative= 

==DA== 

===Politics (Immigration Reform)=== 



**Immigration reform will happen now**
**Catalini, Khan, and Bell, 2/2** ~~[Michael, Naureen, Peter, National Journal, "Insiders Optimistic About Immigration Reform," [[http://www.nationaljournal.com/blogs/hotlineoncall/2013/02/insiders-optimistic-about-immigration-reform-02-http://www.nationaljournal.com/blogs/hotlineoncall/2013/02/insiders-optimistic-about-immigration-reform-02]], ALB~~]
Cautious optimism: That~’s the best way to describe how both Democratic and Republican Political
AND
to immigration policy as Nixon is to China," said one Republican Insider.



**Political capital is key**
**Dallas Morning News, 1/2** **~~[**www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece~~]
The president~’s words to NBC~’s David Gregory are only that — words. What will
AND
done." President Barack Obama, in an interview on Meet the Press Sunday

====Biotech Impact==== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Foreign workers are critical to biotechnology innovations</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sevier 2, director, workforce development and operation, Cal State University System Biotechnology Porgram, & Dahms, executive director, CSUPERB and chair of the Council of Biotechnology Center/BIO Workforce Committee, San Diego, 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (E. Dale, A. Stephen,http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v20/n9/full/nbt0902-955.html) </span>
Through a company application process, foreign… largest US hardware and software companies have strong ties to India, a property not shared by the US biotechnology industry to date.

**Biotech key to prevent extinction-Volcanoes, Asteroids, and Warming Prove**

**Trewavas, 2K**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Institute of Cell and Molecular Biology at the University of Edinburgh</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Anthony, “GM Is the Best Option We Have,” 6/5/2000, www.agbioworld.org/biotech-info/articles/biotech-art/best_option.html)</span>

In 535A.D. a volcano near the present Krakatoa exploded with … principle in recent years; my version of it is "be prepared".

====Ethics Impact==== 


**We have a moral obligation to support comprehensive reform –solves exploitation and takes a stand against unethical practices – this is the politics of invisibility – we refuse to contemplate those that are affected by our decisions**

**Noorani 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ali, Executive Director of the Reform Immigration FOR America campaign and National Immigration Forum, Why We Must Continue Pushing for Comprehensive Immigration Reform, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://immigration.change.org/blog/view/why_we_must_continue_pushing_for_comprehensive_immigration_reform]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">) </span>

There are 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United… reform to all 11 million undocumented immigrants, leaving no one behind.


**This supports a system of power of domination – causes war and destruction**
**LaBalme 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Fen, //Activism.net,// “Activism: Pease: NVCD: Discrimination,” 2002, http://www.activism.net/peace/nvcdh/discrimination.shtml, accessed July 2, 2009). </span>
In this action, our struggle is not only.. in the ways we treat each other.

**It will culminate in extinction – we control the scale of violence**
**Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn)(Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this anthology’s thesis. It encompasses everything from the routinized, bureaucratized, and utterly banal violence of children dying of hunger and maternal despair in Northeast Brazil (Scheper-Hughes, Chapter 33) to elderly African Americans dying of heat stroke in Mayor Daly’s version of US apartheid in Chicago’s South Side (Klinenberg, Chapter 38) to the racialized class hatred expressed by British Victorians in their olfactory disgust of the “smelly” working classes (Orwell, Chapter 36). In these readings violence is located in the symbolic and social structures that overdetermine and allow the criminalized drug addictions, interpersonal bloodshed, and racially patterned incarcerations that characterize the US “inner city” to be normalized (Bourgois, Chapter 37 and Wacquant, Chapter 39). Violence also takes the form of class, racial, political self-hatred and adolescent self-destruction (Quesada, Chapter 35), as well as of useless (i.e. preventable), rawly embodied physical suffering, and death (Farmer, Chapter 34). </span>
Absolutely central to our approach is a blurring of categories and distinctions… including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization).

===Politics (Debt Limit)=== 


**The Debt Ceiling will be raised policy makers are just playing the waiting game.**
**Landon 1/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron Landon- NewsTribune editor, The Daytona Beach News Journal, "Forget the cliff, here comes the ceiling", 1-12-13) MaxL</span>
Lubi said a long, partisan crisis over the debt ceiling could erode business confidence
AND
— to reach that compromise, diverting attention from other more pressing matters.



**Obama will have to use political capital to raise the debt ceiling – He has to be able to focus on the ceiling**
**Feehery 1/2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John Feeherny-President of Communications and Director of Government Affairs for Quinn Gillespie and Associates, The Feehery Theory, "The Clock", 1-2-13, [[http://www.thefeeherytheory.com/2013/01/02/the-clock/-http://www.thefeeherytheory.com/2013/01/02/the-clock/]]) MaxL</span>
The President has already declared that the debt limit is off the table, but
AND
time he has to get his left-wing agenda through the Congress.



**Going over the debt ceiling causes economic collapse**
**Masters 13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jonathan Masters, Senior editor, reporter and CFR author, "Renewing America: U.S. Debt Ceiling: Costs and Consequences," January 2, 2013, http://www.cfr.org/international-finance/us-debt-ceiling-costs-consequences/p24751)/g</span>
What are the implications for financial markets? Most economists, including those in the
AND
sense of caution in financial markets, with adverse effects on the economy."

**Global economic decline causes extinction**
**Aulin and Lachman, 9** –Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute AND fellow at the American Enterprise Institute ~~[Michael and Desmon, "The Global Economy Unravels, Forbes, [[http://www.aei.org/article/100187-http://www.aei.org/article/100187]], ALB~~]
Conversely, global policymakers do not seem to have grasped the downside risks to the
AND
may be a series of small explosions that coalesce into a big bang.



===Politics (Fiscal Cliff)=== 



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Fiscal cliff will be resolved now-It’s a question of maintaining a delicate compromise between spending reductions and tax increases** </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Dennis, 11/16** [Steven T., Roll Call,“GOP Moves Toward Obama on Taxes in Fiscal Cliff Talks,” </span>[[http://www.rollcall.com/news/gop_moves_toward_obama_on_taxes_in_fiscal_cliff_talks-219271-1.html?pos=hftxt]]<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, ALB]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The four top… which can be found on YouTube.</span>




**Plan causes political backlash-Empirical backlash against surface transportation funding**
**Puentes, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior fellow with the Brookings Institution</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative [Robert, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moving Past Gridlock: A Proposal for a Two</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Year Transportation Law,</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">”</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/12/14%20transportation%20puentes/1214_transportation_puentes.pdf]], ALB]</span>
Yet the nation’s… source¶ of revenue for the program.


**Pol cap is key and Obama has it now-Its only maintained if he creates a balance between spending reduction and revenue**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AP, 11/16 [“Obama on tricky path in fiscal cliff negotiations,” [[http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2012/11/16/obama-fiscal-cliff-negotiations/1708377/]], ALB]</span>
President Obama is kicking… cuts for upper-income earners.

**Failure to compromise on the fiscal cliff causes __global economic collapse__**
**Dadush, 11/7**-senior associate and director of Carnegie’s International Economics Program, previous World Bank director of international trade and director of economic policy [Uri, “U.S. fiscal cliff risks dragging global economy into darkness,” [[http://edition.cnn.com/2012/11/07/business/opinion-dadush-obama-economy/index.html]], ALB]
One thing is certain. In the… from their diametrically opposed electoral platforms.


**Global economic decline causes extinction**
**Aulin and Lachman, 9 –**Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute AND fellow at the American Enterprise Institute [Michael and Desmon, “The Global Economy Unravels, Forbes, [[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]], ALB]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conversely, global policymakers do… of small explosions that coalesce into </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a </span>big bang<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====Warming impact==== 


**Compromise on fiscal cliff paves the way for second term Obama agenda-INCLUDING action on climate change**
**Montgomery and Goldfarb, 11/6** [Lori and Zachary, The Washington Post, “Fresh from reelection, president finds himself on edge of ‘fiscal cliff,’[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/decision2012/fiscal-cliff-clock-starts-in-earnest-as-election-fades-to-background/2012/11/06/c4dfde6e-27b2-11e2-b2a0-ae18d6159439_story.html]], ALB]
President Obama returns to Washington… political system can address a major issue.”


====Heg impact==== 


**Presidential leadership is key to a compromise – the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hutchison</span>, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">9/21</span>/2012
(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)
Despite warnings of the… could stall economic growth and punish working families.


**Middle East goes nuclear**
**Russell 9** (James A. Russell, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, ‘9 (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf )
Strategic stability in the region is… peoples of the region, with substantial risk for the entire world.


====BioD impact==== 


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Failure to avoid fiscal cliff collapses the environment and leads to invasive species** </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**McLendon, 11/15** [Russell, “The Fiscal Cliff and the Environment,” </span>[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/eco-nomics/2012/11/15/the-fiscal-cliff-and-the-environment/]]<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, ALB]</span>
Unless Obama and Congress… that protect our air, water, lands and health.”

**Invasive species cause extinction**
Viki <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nadol 99</span>, JD Candidate @ Valparaiso, Summer 1999, Northwestern School of Law of Lewis & Clark College, p ln
The threat of… our own species to extinction.

**Environmental collapse** **causes extinction**
**__Diner, ’94__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Maj. David, Instructor at the US Army JAG School, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>
[*173] Biologically diverse ecosystems… may be edging closer to the abyss.


===Elections DA- Obama Good=== 



**The plan costs Obama the election-Fiscal issues are EXTREMELY important to swing voters**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Kraushaar, 12**-National Journal writer</span> (Josh, 5/14/12, [[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]])
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If unemployment was the only factor driving... pretty good but voter dissatisfaction still runs high.</span>



====China Scenario==== 


**Romney will label China a currency manipulator-that causes a trade war**
**Shobert, 12**-Managing Director of Rubicon Strategy Group, also author of upcoming book Blame China, [Benjamin A.,“Romney lays ground for China trade war,” [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/NB22Cb01.html]], ALB]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Part of what </span>Romney<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> wrote aligns... American politics seems bent on making a reality.</span>


**Trade wars go nuclear**
**Taaffe 2005** (Peter Taaffe, “China, A New Superpower?,” Socialist Alternative.org, Nov 1, 2005, pg. [[@http://www.socialistalternative.org/news/article11.php?id=30]])
While this conflict is unresolved... the U.S. when their interests are at stake.

====Russia Scenario==== 

**Romney election ruins Russian relations- Causes escalation**
**Bandow, 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy and civil liberties, “Romney and Russia: Complicating American Relationships,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/romney-and-russia-complicating-american-relationships/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ALB]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitt </span>Romney <span style="font-size: 8pt;">has become the inevitable Republican presidential candidate... </span>Washington should not give Moscow<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> additional </span>reasons to indulge<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> its </span>paranoia<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>


**The impact is extinction**
**Bostrom**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 2</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
The<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> first manmade (SIC) existential risk was the inaugural detonation...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

===Space Militarization DA=== 


**Obama’s NSP triggers multilateral space cooperation– it prevents weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - , Ph.D., </span>senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, HYPERLINK "http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2" )
As is well understood, the space… remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details.



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Launch vehicles are associated with a space arms race – they can be used to deliver weapons**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Tyson & Clark 1** - * Director of Business Development of Space Frontier Operations, Inc, **Director and CEO of Space Frontier Operations, Inc**</span>
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">(George R & Andrew V.W., “Innovative Financing of a Large Space Project”, http://www.orbitalcommerceproject.com/refdocs/InnovativeFinancing.pdf) RA</span>**
**However, like any other enterprise,… nations just getting into the business.**



**Cooperation is key to prevent miscalc and pre-emption**
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span>HYPERLINK "http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you"<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you)</span>**
**Perhaps of even greater… lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.**


**War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
Mitchell, et al 1** -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, HYPERLINK "http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html" http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)
A buildup of space weapons… destructive military conflict ever seen.



==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">CP</span>== 

===Privatization CP=== 


**The United States federal government should:**

**-- devolve all control over the plan’s infrastructure to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on the plan’s infrastructure to the states.**

**-- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in the plan’s infrastructure**

**--grant states permission to transfer ownership of the plan’s infrastructure to the private sector.**



**Solves the case – the CP encourages state experimentation with full privatization – this raises more capital than the plan and stimulates the economy without federal funding**
**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)/DH|http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Decentralizing Infrastructure Financing… as Canada has done with very favorable results.31 </span>

**The CP’s experiment creates the political will for full-scale infrastructure privatization**
**Winston, 10** - applied microeconomist and senior fellow in the Economic Studies Program at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brookings_Institution|Brookings Institution]]. He specializes in the analysis of and has written extensively on industrial organization, regulation, and transportation (Clifford, __Last Exit: Privatization and Deregulation of the U.S. Transportation System,__ p. 2-3)//DH//

//Do the current problems with the… significantly improve the system’s performance.//


//**4 net benefits –**//

//**1. productivity – federal planning undermines productivity because it can’t accurately respond to price signals. Private decision making more efficiently allocates resources tailored to economic need**//
//**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)/DH|http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the description of today's… for housing, and $3.5 billion for airports.</span>//

//**2. Innovation – federal planning doesn’t accurately target infrastructure development to best meet economic need – mismanagement deepens economic problems**//
//**Norcross and Sautet, 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – both are senior research fellows at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University (Eileen and Frederic, “THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT: Will More Public Spending Pave the Way to a Better Infrastructure?” SSRN)</span>//DH

Infrastructure development is not the… what they need and don’t pay for what they consume.

**3. competitiveness – using private sector capital diverts it from other countries – maximizes competitiveness more effectively than public spending**
**Staley, 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - senior research fellow at Reason Foundation and associate director of the DeVoe L. Moore Center at Florida State University in Tallahassee where he teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in urban planning, regulation, and urban economics (Samuel, “Gas Tax Increase or Private Capital?,” 7/16, [[http://reason.org/news/show/1006992.html]])//DH//</span>
//Congress isn't waiting to see who wins… far behind our global competitors.//

//**4. data cooking - public investment is manipulated by project managers who __cook the data__ to win project approval – exaggerates aff benefits and causes massive cost overruns**//
//**Flyvbjerg, 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)</span>//DH
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This situation may need some… is common with major infrastructure projects.</span>

**Data cooking creates economic disasters – the worst projects are approved, and necessary infrastructure loses out – this turns the case**
**Flyvbjerg, 10** - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)//DH
In sum, the UK study shows that… as disasters waiting to happen.



===Executive Order CP=== 

**Text: President Barack Obama should issue an executive order to do the plan**. **Congress and the President should finance the proposal by giving states flexibility to pursue alternative financing sources and by improving federal financing programs as per our 1nc Thomasson evidence.**


**The counterplan mandates the plan but combines state-based financing and executive proposals to generate funding – it doesn’t link to ptx**
**Thomasson 12** (Scott is president of NewBuild Strategies LLC, an energy and infrastructure consulting firm in Washington, DC. “Encouraging U.S. Infrastructure Investment” April, Council on Foreign Relations Press [[http://www.cfr.org/infrastructure/encouraging-us-infrastructure-investment/p27771]], ken)
__Despite the pressing infrastructure investment… afford to wait any longer to make these investments.__



**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Specific executive orders can shape broader executive powers</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mayer in 2001</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Kenneth R., Professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin, //With The Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Power,// Princeton University Press)</span>
The examples offered here of significant… presidency, issued far more orders than any other president.


**Presidential power is critical to sustain the vital functions of American leadership**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mallaby 2K</span>(Sebastian, Member, Washington Post’s Editorial Board, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb)
Finally, some will object that… such as isolationism or multiculturalism.



**US primacy prevents nuclear great power wars**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walt 2 </span>(Stephen, Professor of International Affairs at Harvard's KennedySchool of Government. "American Primacy: Its Prospects and Pitfalls." Naval WarCollege Review, Vol. 55, Iss. 2. pg. 9 (20 pages) Spring 2002. Proquest)
A second consequence of… live in than "interesting" decades like the 1930s or 1940s.




===Delegation CP=== 


**Text: Congress should delegate the authority to do the plan to the applying agency. The agency should pursue and enact the congressional delegation.**


**Counterplan solves the aff and doesn’t link to politics.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Epstein and O’Hallaron 99</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David Epstein- Department of Political Science and Stanford Graduate School of Business, Columbia and Stanford University, and Sharyn O’Hallaron- Department of Political Science and the School of International and Public Affairs and Hoover Institution, Columbia and Stanford University, January 1999 (“The Nondelegation Doctrine and the Separation of Powers” – Cardozo Law Review) p. lexis </span>
Our institutional analysis begins with the observation… be the preferred mode of policymaking.


**Counterplan key to maintain separation of powers**
**Bryner, ’87**[Gary, Ph. D in Govt, Poli Sci @ BYU, “Bureaucratic Discretion: Law and Policy in Federal Regulatory Agencies,” p.5-6]
Bureaucratic discretion is also defended... unpopular agency actions.


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Separation of powers is key to effectively respond to global crises** </span>
**Tushnet**, June **2005**: [Mark V. Tushnet – response to Curtis Bradley and Jock Goldsmith Harvard Review. Academic OneFile, “Controlling Executive power in the war on terrorism.” ]
Imagine this scenario: after a… worked out in the interactions between the President and Congress.

====<span class="StyleLatinGeorgia10ptUnderline">Elections no link</span>==== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Delegation lets Obama avoid blame – solves best avoids delay, complexity, and confusion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Schoenbrod ’93</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David Schoenbrod,- professor of law at NYU, “Power Without Responsibility”, 1993, pg. 95-96)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>presidents<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> must take personal... </span><span class="StyleUnderlined-NewLatinGeorgia10pt">president to do politically valuable casework.</span>

====Nuke war impact==== 


**That’s key to prevent nuclear war**
**Redish & Cisar’ 91** Martin H. Redish, Law Professor, Northwestern University and Elizabeth J. Cisar, Clerk Chief Judge William Bauer, U.S. Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, Duke Law Journa, 1991, lexis.
In summary, no defender... <span class="StyleLatinGeorgia10ptUnderline">saying, “I told you so.”</span>

===Diversity Forum CP=== 

=<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1NC</span>= 


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: Our counter advocacy is to create a forum in which we specifically apply genealogy as a method of opening space for previously silenced perspectives on transportation policy through a process of conscientization to break through the constructions around us while speaking the truth so we can grow epistemologically and become educated. </span>**

**Discussion forums solve case better.** 
**Zompetti ’04**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>
Interjecting the personalized into debate rounds… etc. The drawbacks to personalizing debate, however, are, in my opinion, enormous.

**Two net benefits-** 

**1) Alliance splitting- personalizing debate causing backlash and resistance against the cause and turns case.** 
**Zompetti ’04**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>
The purpose of this essay is to outline what I… anxiety, resistance and backlash.


**2. Debate rounds are bad forums- lack of time, moving advocacy target, and they deflect from community-wide discussions- turns the case**
**Zompetti ’04**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>

The second major problem with this turn in… prevents examination of more important factors such as resource disparity.

**Limiting these discussions to a small, competitive debate round fails—we need a broader forum to prevent group polarization, which makes genuine dialogue and progress impossible.**
**Talisse 5**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Talisse, Robert, philosophy professor at Vanderbilt, “Deliberativist Response to Activist Challenges, Philosophy and Social Criticism, vol 31, no.4)FS</span>
Group polarization is a well-documented phenomenon… pursuit of justice. Insofar as the activist denies this, he is unreasonable.




===Nepa CP=== 


**The Department of Transportation should submit the plan** **for a National Environmental Policy Act Environmental Impact Statement. The United States federal government should implement the least environmentally damaging alternative identified in the Environmental Impact Statement.**

**The counterplan is not topical and plan-minus**

**It severs should**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Summers 94</span> (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13)
The legal question to be resolved by the… something that will or would become effective in the future [in futurol]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, 106 U.S. 360, 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).


**It severs substantial**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Words and Phrases 25</span>
Judicial and statutory definitions of words and phrases, Volume 7, p. 6738, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1925</span>
The words “outward, open, actual, visible… inclusive. Bass v. Pease, 79 Ill. App. 308, 318.


**The counterplan solves – the //__process__// of evaluating environmentally friendly alternatives //__prior__// to action leads to a compromise that solves the aff and avoids environmental harm**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dreher 5</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Deputy Executive Director of the Georgetown Environmental Law & Policy Institute. He served as Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Robert, “The Political Assault on the National Environmental Policy Act,” [[http://www.law.georgetown.edu/gelpi/research_archive/nepa/NEPAUnderSiegeFinal.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yet another criticism of the NEPA review process is that it impedes…responsible way, and we succeeded in avoiding appeals that plague controversial timber sales.”</span>


**The counterplan reverses the trend of categorical exclusions – key to revitalizing NEPA**
<span class="cite">Green Group 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Coalition of 30 Environmental groups, Transition to Green: Environmental Trasnition Recommendation for the Obama Administration, Group Includes: American Rivers - Center For International Environmental Law- Clean Water Action- Defenders Of Wildlife - Earthjustice - Environment America - Environmental Defense Fund - Friends Of The Earth- Greenpeace - Izaak Walton League - League Of Conservation Voters -National Audubon Society - National Parks Conservation Association -National Tribal Environmental Council - National Wildlife Federation- Native American Rights Fund - Natural Resources Defense Council - Oceana -Ocean Conservancy - Pew Environment Group -Physicians For Social Responsibility - Population Connection -Population Action International -Rails-To-Trails Conservancy - Sierra Club - The Wilderness Society -The Trust For Public Land - Union Of Concerned Scientists -World Wildlife Fund, [[http://otrans.3cdn.net/ba9c868ec4fe74f1b8_2pm62vhlb.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Since 1970, the National Environmental Policy… </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">effect on the environment, thus requiring environmental review</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



**That solves global ecological sustainability**
<span class="cite">Caldwell 98 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Professor of Political Science @ IU</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Lynton K. Caldwell, Prof. of Political Science/Public and Environmental Affairs @ Indiana Univ., 22 Harv. Envtl. L. Rev. 203, Beyond NEPA: Future Significance of the National Environmental Policy Act, Lexis</span>
A distinguishing feature of any society is its prevailing assumptions… an enhanced quality of life and an enduring environmental future.


**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jowit 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Julien, The Guardian, World is facing a natural resources crisis worse than financial crunch, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2008/oct/29/climatechange-endangeredhabitats</span>
The world is heading for an "ecological credit crunch… planet Earth," said Chief Emeka Anyaoku, the president of WWF International.


===Code of Conduct CP=== 


**CP TEXT:**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States Federal Government should enact a Code of Conduct and propose it to all space-faring nations that prohibits harmful interference against man-made space objects and reduces practices that contribute to the weaponization of space to do the plan. The United States federal government should create enforcement systems, transparency, and measures for every country that agrees to the Code of Conduct.</span>**


**Strengthening the security of outer space activities is key—It expands space activities that contribute to the development and security of States. It also allows for better consultations.**
**Council of the European Union ’08**- Council of the European Union (Council of the European Union, “Draft Council Conclusions on the draft Code of Conduct for outer space activities”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.eu2008.fr/webdav/site/PFUE/shared/import/1209_CAGRE_resultats/Code%20of%20Conduct%20for%20outer%20space%20activities_EN.pdf]]</span>, pg.2, 12-3-2008) NP
The Council considers that… greatest number of countries.


**Space exploration is politically controversial-history proves**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Pasztor, 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[Andy, senior special writer at the Los Angeles Bureau of The Wall Street Journal, has more than 25 years experience, “NASA’s Post-Shuttle Space-Exploration Plans Generate Little Excitement”, </span>[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903554904576460203278610600.html?mod=googlenews_wsj|**http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903554904576460203278610600.html?mod=googlenews_wsj**]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, AVLB]</span>
Despite the fanfare… which could hurt the program's reliability

==K== 

===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kappeler K</span>**=== 


The affirmative~’s concept of violence as external from their own lives allows individuals to abdicate their responsibility. Denial of our individual culpability with violence forecloses the possibility of meaningful change; in the process, violence becomes more likely.
KAPPELER IN 1995 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">~~[Susanne Kappeler, </span>The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">pg 1-4~~]</span>
What is striking is that the violence which is talked about is always the violence
AND
is am unmistakable signal to society that racist violence does indeed ~’pay off~’.


**Political violence is sustained by organized thinking that looks at violence through meta-analysis. We need to have deeper insight that realizes that each of us are culpable for violence. This is integral to ending the cycle of violence.**
KAPPELER IN 1995 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">~~[Susanne Kappeler, </span>The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">pg 8-11~~]</span>
Moreover, personal behaviour is no alternative to `political~’ action; there is no
AND
and that there is no such thing as not acting or doing nothing.
**Their inter-subjective understanding of violence reduces the people they discuss to instruments that can be pillaged.**
**KAPPELER IN 1995** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">~~[Susanne Kappeler, </span>The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">pg 124-128~~]</span>
The terms may indeed be troublesome if we wish them to mean the opposite of
AND
`its relationship~’, and hence puts its own `end~’ to it.
**The alternative is to interrogate our own will to violence; only by politicizing the way we think about violence can we find ways to end the cycle of violence.**
**KAPPELER IN 1995** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">~~[Susanne Kappeler, </span>The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">pg 4-5~~]</span>
If we nevertheless continue to explain violence by its ~’circumstances~’ and attempt to counter
AND
for any political struggle against violence and for a non-violent society.




===Cap K=== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cap causes endless genocide and spurs violent resistance that kills millions in the name of resource expansion.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Jalata 11** – </span>Professor of Sociology & Global Studies
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Asafa, January 24th 2011, “Terrorism from Above and Below in the Age of Globalization”, p.1-4) NAR</span>
As capitalism developed in Western... cancer for all human groups affected by it.


**The alternative is to reject the affirmative as a means of rejecting capitalism – Only a complete rejection can destroy the system**
<span class="apple-converted-space">**Herod, 4 –** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">author of “Getting Free”[ “The Strategy Described Abstractly,” James Herod, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]]]</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-size: 7pt;">[román]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It is time to try to describe...</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> shape of their social world.</span>__

===Security=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Security speech acts define difference as threatening otherness, to secure state identity, which causes a self-fulfilling prophecy based on false regimes of truth.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jæger</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">00</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Øyvind @ Norwegian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute. //Peace and Conflict Studies// 7.2 “Securitizing Russia: Discoursive Practice of the Baltic States” shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf”, MT)</span>
Security is a field of practice into which subject matters can be… Everyone is expected to defend everything with every possible means.



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Their discourse of the economy as an issue of national security is representative of the marriage of the economy and security by which the state applies it to both social life and the international order.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">20</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">06</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Mark, Professor in the Department of Politics and History at Brunel University “From Social to National Security: On the Fabrication of Economic Order” Security Dialogue 2006; 37; pdf, p. 376-380, MT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Robert Pollard (1985: 13) has suggested... commitment to capital accumulation.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Enmity motivated by security will cause extinction, the threats they name aren’t real but are invented by leaders manipulating us. </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mack</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> 19</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">88</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988. </span><span style="color: #000099; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, MT)</span>
__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The threat of nuclear annihilation... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">major focus of our educational system.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy</span>**
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cheeseman & Bruce</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> 19</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">96</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Graeme, Senior Lecturer at the University of New South Wales, and Robert, Associate Professor in social sciences at Curtin university, “Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers”, p. 5-8, MT)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still... or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The alternative solves - breaking out of our obsession with security allows alternative relationships to the future - their predictions are ideologically loaded and suspect.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">08</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 185-186, MT)</span>
__The only way out of such a...__ __**us to be brave enough to return the gift.**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">143</span>


====<span style="font-size: 12px;">Arctic Link</span>==== 


**Arctic conflict and competition claims are framed through security politics**
**ISN 11** (International Relations and Security Network, Colliding Geopolitics and the Arctic, 12/8/11, ISN)
Borgerson’s highly geopolitical tale is illustrative of a common narrative about the Arctic… only retroactively (and self-consciously) exploited by Moscow.

====Russia Link==== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The idea Russia is a threat is a dirty lie that conflates the current system with a paranoid fear that triggers the threat spiral causing a self fulfilling prophecy.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jæger</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> 20**__00__** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Øyvind @ Norwegian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute. //Peace and Conflict Studies// 7.2 “Securitizing Russia: Discursive Practice of the Baltic States” shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf”, MT)</span>
Security, to be sure, is about the sovereignty and survival of the state… and installed as the first link in the discursive chain that follows.




==Round Reports== 

===Longbeach=== 

====Round 1==== 

Aff: Ruralism

1NC: T-USFG
Capitalism K

2NR: Capitalism K

====Round 4==== 

Aff: ITS

1NC: security
Delegate
Election
T services

2NR: Elections/Case

====Round 5==== 

Aff: CCS

1NC: T-Pipelines
NEPA CP
Election
Capitalism K

2NR: T-Pipelines

===Meadows=== 

====Round 2==== 

Aff: ITS

1NC: T- physical infrastructure
Delegation CP
Elections (Russia scenario)
Security K

2NR: Delegation/ Elections

====Round 4==== 

Aff: Mayport

1NC: Waste DA
Elections DA (Russia scenario)
Security K
T- Military

2NR: Waste DA/ Case

====Round 5==== 

Aff: Icebreakers

1NC: Russia CP
Elections DA (Russia scenario)
T- In means within
Security

2NR: T in means within


===Damien=== 

====Round 2==== 

Aff: CCS

1NC: Delegation CP
Politics DA (Fiscal Cliff scenario)
T pipelines
Security

2NR: T


====Round 3==== 

Aff: NIB

1NC: Politics DA (Fiscal Cliff scenario)
Security K
Privitization CP
T infrastructure

2NR: Disad/ Case

====Quarters==== 

Aff: Hydrogen Fuel Cell Busses

1NC: T vehicles
Security
Delegation
Politics (Fiscal Cliff)

2NR: T

====Semifinals==== 

Aff: NIB

1NC: T Capital Spending
Security
Privitization CP
Politics (fiscal cliff)

2NR: CP and T sorta

===Glenbrooks=== 

====Round 2==== 

Aff: Carriers

1NC: Politics (fiscal cliff)
Executive Order CP
Security
T-Vehicles

2NR: Counterplan

====Round 4==== 

Aff: NIB

1NC: T-physical infrastructure
Politics (fiscal cliff with bioD impact)
Privatization CP

2NR: Counterplan

====Round 5==== 

Aff: ITS

1NC: T-Physical Infrastructure
Politics (fiscal cliff)
NEPA CP
Security

2NR: DA/Case


===Alta=== 
====Round 2==== 

AFF: Reusable Launch System

1NC: Politics
Security
Code of Conduct CP
Space Militarization DA
T- Vehicles

2NR: K

====Round 3==== 

AFF: HSR

1NC: Politics
Delegation CP
Security
T- Vehicles

2NR: CP/DA

====Round 6==== 

AFF: Smart Grid System

1NC: T- underlying infrastructure
XO CP
Politics
Security

2NC: CP/DA

===Victory Briefs=== 
====Round 1==== 

Aff: Airport Improvement Program

1NC: XO cp
Politics (Debt Ceiling)
T-Vehicles

2NR: CP/DA

====Round 3==== 

Aff: NIB

1NC: XO cp
Politics
T- list
Security

2NR: CP/DA

===Golden Desert=== 
====Round 1==== 

Aff: Next Gen

1NC: XO
Politics (immigration reform-biotech)
Security
T-vehicles/in

2NR: CP/DA

====Round 4==== 

Aff: NIB

1NC: Privatization
Politics (immigration reform-biotech)
Security
T- direct investment

2NR: K

====Round 6==== 

Aff: Dam removal

1NC: Delegation
Politics (immigration reform-ethics)
Kappeler
T- increase

2NR: CP/DA

===Berkeley=== 

====Round 2==== 

Aff: New Orleans

1NC: Politics (immigration reform-ethics)
XO
Kappeler
T in means throughout

2NR: CP/DA

====Round 3==== 

Aff: Icebreakers

1NC: Politics (Immigration reform-ethics)
XO
Security
T Vehicles

2NR: T Vehicles

====Round 6==== 

Aff: Airport Security K aff

1NC: Diversity Forum CP
Cap K
Framework

2NR: Diversity Forum CP