[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Integrated Infrastructure Aff== 
====Inherency==== 
====Funding being cut==== 
**__ACTI__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, February 28</span>, **__2012__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Your money: EPA's 2013 budget, http://www.actio.net/default/index.cfm/actio-blog/epa-2013-budget-testimonial/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">EPA</span> **__budget of …__****__for the EPA__**. 

====Now is key – financial crisis has caused a small window of opportunity==== 
**__Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis, 2010__**__,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">April, 16, Report No 6, page 2,</span>
"**__Today's financial crisis …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> policy measures are taken.</span>

====Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investments into integrated infrastructure in the United States.==== 

====Advantage 1: Green Leadership==== 
====The US is falling behind in green tech innovation==== 
**__Liebrich et al, 10__** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairman and Chief Executive of the New Energy Finance, [World Economic Forum, “Green Investing 2010: Policy Mechanisms to Bridge the Financing Gap,” January 2010, http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_IV_GreenInvesting_Report_2010.pdf SJE]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While</span> **__new financial investment__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… for the remaining investment.</span>

====Green heg is key to sustainability==== 
**__Crawford 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wake Forest University School of Law, J.D. [Colin S. Crawford, COMMENT: GREEN WARFARE: AN AMERICAN GRAND STRATEGY FOR THE 21ST CENTURY, Wake Forest Journal of Business and Intellectual Property Law, 2010 – 2011, 11 Wake Forest J. Bus. & Intell. Prop. L. 243]</span>
**__The United States is in …be a hybrid one__**.

====Heg is the anchor of global stability and decline outweighs all other impacts- critical to this is failing US infrastructure, technology & the ability to assert leadership in the next 20 years==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kempe 4/18 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Frederick Kempe, Frederick Kempe is president and CEO of the Atlantic Council. He previously spent more than twenty-five years as a reporter, columnist, and editor for The Wall Street Journal, where, among other roles, he served as chief diplomatic correspondent, Berlin bureau chief, and editor and associate publisher of the Journal’s Europe edition, April 4 18, “Does America Still Want to Lead the World”, http://blogs.reuters.com/thinking-global/2012/04/18/does-america-still-want-to-lead-the-world/)//JM</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For all their bitter differences…</span> or capable of filling.

====Advantage 2: Anthropocentrism==== 
====Transportation infrastructure is a global threat to ecology==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bennett, Smith, and Betts 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Victoria J., research assistant in the Dep’t of Forest Ecosystems and Sociology at Oregon State University, Winston P., wildlife biologist for the US Dep’t of Agriculture, Matthew G., professor of landscape ecology at Oregon State University, “Toward Understanding the Ecological Impact of Transportation Corridors,” TRID).</span>
Transportation corridors <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> manage species of concern<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Infrastructure is both the problem and the solution for anthropocentrism</span>**
**__Hendery 9__** (Peter, “Post-Anthropocentric Dwelling Conditions,” http://scholarworks.umass.edu/cgi/ viewcontent.cgi?article=1394&context=theses)
**__This interesting project …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to be described later.</span>

====Anthro is the root of all impacts==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Johns 98 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David M. Adjunct Assistant Professor of Political Science Portland State Univ. B.S. Political Science and Anthropology 1976, Portland State University; M.A. Political Science 1978, J.D. Law, 1980, Columbia University.The Relevance of Deep Ecology to the Third World (1990) Some Preliminary Comments in The great new wilderness debate By J. Baird Callicott, Michael P. Nelson] [ct] [Page/s 257]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MILITARIZATION As with …</span> brought us to the current crisis.

====Solvency==== 
====Plan key to social attitude and movements==== 
**__Tolenado, 2012.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael. March 23, From the Gold Age of Media Criticism: Architecture by George Bataille, http://themassornament.com/2012/03/architecture-georges-bataille-1929/</span>
Architecture is the …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their veritable masters.</span>
With the action of our plan, we can claim victory that spurs global movements
Hoff 8 (Dena, family farmer in United States, vice president of the national family farm coalition, “Food Sovereignty—Beyond Democracy,”) 
By building alternative models…challenge for this century
Don’t fear cooption- the small revision of the plan is much more explosive to the system than an alternative radical rejection. The vulnerabilities inherent in politics give the plan large unforeseen catastrophic consequences beyond its initial action
Zizek 98 (Slavoj, Institute Social Sciences, U Ljublijiana, Law and the Postmodern Mind, p 91-92)
Finally, the point about … unforeseen catastrophic consequences 
**Integrated Infrastructure saves billions, annually** 
**__Atlantic Cities 2012__** http://www.theatlanticcities.com/technology/2012/04/green-infrastructure-could-cities-save-billions/1832/
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Palatino Linotype',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Compared to canvas …</span> by not going green.


Weak anthro is key to solving environmental & ecological problems
Fox 87 (Michael Allen, “nuclear weapons and the ultimate environmental crisis,” environmental ethics summer 97)


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]