=[[toc]]= 
=Affirmative= 
==1ac - Greenhill== 
**Contention 1**

**We begin with a story by Maria Ibarra a 40 year old who works in the maquiladora**
“THE LIFE OF A MAQUILADORA WORKER BY MARIA IBARRA:” (Maria Ibarra is about 40 years old. She works in the maquiladora factory of Maxell of Mexico) http://homepages.udayton.edu/~jsantamarina1/maquiladoraworker.html

I've worked in the factory where I am now for three years. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Three years is a long time, </span>and what I have to show for this time is very little. You <span style="font-size: 8pt;">connect all the parts, </span>do your job<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and try to keep up with all the things the company demands.</span> But <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the </span>benefits are <span style="font-size: 8pt;">very </span>small<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, especially in terms of money. </span> I make 38 pesos a day <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- 264 pesos a week. Our wages are so low the company gives us a weekly bonus of food coupons worth 55 pesos. (One dollar = 7.50 pesos). </span> I have two sons who live with me. My oldest is 19<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He has been working in a maquiladora for four years, since he was small. </span>He couldn’t continue going to school because we couldn't get by on what I was earning. The younger one is 16, and just started <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in a small shop where they’re teaching him the job.</span> Because he's <span style="font-size: 8pt;">still small, and</span> just learning, he's earning enough for his bus fare and his food, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and </span>that’s all<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As their mother,</span> I felt very bad when they first went to work. Children should be in school. I wanted something so different for them.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When they were babies, </span>I thought they were going to study and become something in life. But the economy failed. I was forced to send them to work so we could survive. I can't say this <span style="font-size: 8pt;">really </span>solved anything. It was<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> just </span>so that we could live a little better. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">And it’s not just my children -- they're just two of many others. Between my oldest son and myself, </span>we bring in about 410 pesos a week. Water <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is very expensive. </span>Gas <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(for cooking) is very expensive. </span>Food is very expensive. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we want to eat meat, it can't stretch that far. It's more like we eat bones than we eat meat. </span>At the beginning of the year there's always a general wage increase,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> but </span>before the increase takes effect, you see the prices going up on everything<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Everything. Last January, sugar went up a peso. </span>Milk, which cost 15 pesos, went up to 17,50. I only make 38 pesos a day, so I work half a day for a gallon of milk.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When I talk to my friends at work, </span>everywhere it's the same. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">When people get married, they both have to work. Young couples leave their small children with a neighbor, or with their parents.</span> The salary of a single person isn't enough to live on. I have hope that things can change, but I see it as very difficult. We tried to change things once<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in my factory. We didn't have any transportation to work. </span>At first, we talked <span style="font-size: 8pt;">among ourselves, </span>undercover, because we were afraid<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Normally, the majority of the people don't really participate in anything. </span>We always fear we'll be discovered and fired<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Everything has to be done undercover. </span>But we screwed up our courage, and we said, well, whatever happens, we’re going to see what we can do<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We got together a group of four or five people. To show the company we weren't just by ourselves,</span> we put it all in writing, and everyone signed what we wrote. We went to the offices of the company and said we wanted busses. We made ourselves brave, and we talked, and thank God, we got them. <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sincerely, </span>I was afraid something would happen to us. The company doesn’t like people like us -- they call us crybabies.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But winning really lifted our spirits because even though getting a bus is not a lot, it's something. And we save enough at home to buy another container of water or a kilo of tortillas. </span>We won something real. I asked the assistant manager of our shift why they can't pay us a little more. On the other side of the border, people working for the same company earn in an hour what we earn in a day. He told us that the company came here because we work so cheap. If we pressured them to pay more, they would just take the work somewhere else and we would be left without jobs. I think this is really just an excuse, to make us grateful<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for our jobs. Still, </span>it's difficult to think about my future. I have to take care not to lose my job. Once you get to be a certain age, they don't want you anymore. I've thought about going across the border, but I’m scared to do it. I have my sons. What would happen to them if I left them by themselves? There's vagrancy, there's delinquency, there are lots of dangers. It could be even worse. But the younger one is desperate, and he says he wants to go across. I tell him he has to be 18 but he's free. How could I stop him? Here or there, who knows what could happen? And over there, it's very bad. Because of lack of schooling, he doesn't know English. So what would he be going to? To be humiliated? To work? No, no, I tell him, better here. But he just says, well, maybe later on then.

**Contention 2**

**The epistemological construction of women on the border is flawed**

**Our static understanding of the border has shaped our mindset –the border is a militarized base of INS agents using high tech equipment to hunt down the Mexican Citizens by any means possible – resulting in sexist policies targeting immigrants**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elvia R. </span>**Arriola 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(B.A., California State University, Los Angeles J.D., University of California, Berkeley M.A., New York University, Professor Arriola joined NIU Law in 2001 and teaches Constitutional Law, Gender, Sexuality and the Law, Civil Rights Litigation, Family Law and a research and writing seminar, Women, Law and the Global Economy. She is a Women's Studies Faculty Associate. “VOICES FROM THE BARBED WIRES OF DESPAIR: WOMEN IN THE MAQUILADORAS, LATINA CRITICAL LEGAL THEORY, AND GENDER AT THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">49 DePaul L. Rev. 729 1999-2000 (http://heinonline.org)</span>

The highly feminized workforce of the //maquiladora////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">s </span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">88 </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">also </span>suggests that most of the border immigrants who attempt to cross are male<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>illustrating the few opportunities for them to find livable wages in a Mexican border town.They contemplate and sometimes repeatedly try to cross into the United States at a borderthat has become increasingly hostile to the Mexican citizen<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Encouraged by a conservative presidency, </span>Congress made it possible in the 1980s to expand border activities through a "beefed up" INSthatnow routinely uses high-tech night-vision equipment, helicopters, expanded concrete and steel barriers, and hundreds more Border Patrol agents<span style="font-size: 8pt;">89 with the backup of United States military forces. In 1996 alone, </span>over 400 members of the United States Army, Marine Corps, and the California National Guard were deployed as part of a Joint Task force aimed at policing the U.S.-Mexicoborder on an anti-drug trafficking campaign<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.90 </span>The high number of deaths caused by border crossings, as well as a range of other practices engaged in by the INS, have begun to invite the criticism of international watches for human rights abuses in Mexico and around the world<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.91 In 1996, Mexican lawmakers demanded that their president "make public a detailed list of 'human rights viola-tions' committed against Mexicans in the past five years. ' 92 The demand described </span>not only the existence of a "low-intensity-war against Mexican citizens in the United States," but also an "anti-immigrant climate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ' 93 </span>Other charges included the endorsement of activities or anti-immigrant laws 94 byCalifornia Governor Pete Wilson that were labeled "racist."<span style="font-size: 8pt;">95</span>



**Women are forced to provide proof they are not pregnant and may be deliberately punched in the stomach to prevent such occasions – destroys mental, emotional, and physical health of the workers**
**Pantaleo 2006**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">¶ Katie California University of Pennsylvania </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">∗</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">¶ Katie Pantaleo graduated with honors from California University of Pennsylvania ¶ in 2006. She was also the president of the Ssociology Club. Katie is currently ¶ pursuing a master’s degree in social policy at Duquesne University. Sociological Viewpoints “GENDERED VIOLENCE: ¶ MURDER IN THE MAQUILADORAS” Fall 2006 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.pasocsociety.org/article2.pdf</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> Herm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the </span>problems <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that</span> many Mexican women face while working in<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>maquiladoras has less to do with discrimination in hiring and more to do with<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>discriminating practices in the workplace. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">While there is no discrimination against ¶women working in maquiladoras, </span>there is pregnancy discrimination in the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>workplace<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Women who are pregnant are turned away immediately, while those <span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ who are </span>hired can be subject to established practices designed to discourage and <span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ prevent pregnancy. T</span>hese practices are as follows: pregnancy testing, proof of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>menstruation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a</span>nd physical harm. First of all, women can be forced to undergo<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>pregnancy testing throughout their work term<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Abell 1999). </span>This occurs randomly<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ and without notice </span>and usually consists of a urine test. A second practice is more<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>painful for the women, psychologically and emotionally. Each month, women may<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>be mandated to demonstrate proof of their menstruation by showing sanitary napkins<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ t</span>o managers.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Also </span>a series of intrusive questions are asked to each female employee, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ </span>such as the date of her last period, what kind of contraception she uses, and when the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>last time was she had sex <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Koerner 1999). </span>The third practice adds physical harm <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to ¶ the existing emotional and psychological stress</span>. Women may be deliberately <span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ </span>punched in the stomach and abdomen by managers to make sure that they are not<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>pregnant or to damage any unborn child. Because of these practices, female<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>maquiladora workers suffer numerous consequences. In relation to reproduction<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in ¶ general, </span>maquiladora workers are likely to have irregular menstruation, miscarriages<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ¶ </span>fertility problems, and to bear children with birth defects such as premature births<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or ¶ low birth weight(Abell 1999). ¶ The </span>maquiladora management justify these practices because they fear that <span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ </span>pregnant women will disrupt the flow of work within the maquiladoras especially in<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>the later stages in pregnancy when the women will leave work to return home to care<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>for their child. By <span style="font-size: 8pt;">turning away women who are already pregnant and </span>controlling <span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ the</span> pregnancy status of current employees, maquiladora owners are preventing future <span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ </span>disruptions within the workplace.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Also, </span>a law exists in Mexico that insists onpaid <span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ </span>maternity leave<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>which <span style="font-size: 8pt;">e</span>mployers find to be expensive<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Abell 1999). According to ¶ Koerner (1999), the management of the maquiladoras or the Mexican Institute of ¶ Social Security is responsible for paying maternity benefits, depending on the lengthof employment of the women. If she has made social security payments for at least ¶ thirty weeks during the preceding twelve months prior to receiving benefits, the ¶Mexican Institute of Social Security pays for maternity leave. Otherwise, the ¶ maquiladora management must pay the benefits. Therefore, </span>maquiladora employers<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>rationalize these demeaning practices by arguing that they do not want to pay the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ¶ </span>legally granted maternity leave to workers not only because it is expensive but also <span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ </span>because it would mean possibly losing full-time employees.

**You should reject every instance of patriarchal oppression – each individual rejection lessens the impact and is crucial to averting the onward march towards extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warren & Cady 1996</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Karen & Duane, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections”, Hypatia Volume: 9. Issue: 2, pp 4, DJ</span>

Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy as a dysfunctional system is found in the behaviors to which it gives rise, (c), and the unmanageability (d), which results. For example, in the United States, current estimates are that one out of every three or four women will be raped by someone she knows;<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> globally, rape, sexual harassment, spouse-beating</span>, and sado-masochistic pornography <span style="font-size: 11pt;">are examples of behaviors practiced, sanctioned</span>, or <span style="font-size: 11pt;">tolerated within patriarchy. In the realm of environmentally destructive behaviors, strip-mining, factory farming, and pollution of the air, water, and soil are instances of behaviors maintained and sanctioned within patriarchy. They, too, rest on the faulty belief that is okay to “rape the earth,” that it is “man’s God-given right” to have dominion (that is, domination) over the earth, that nature has only instrumental value, that environmental destruction is the acceptable price we pay for “progress.” And the presumption of warism, that war is a natural, righteous, and ordinary way to impose dominion on a people or nation, goes hand in hand with patriarchy and leads to dysfunctional behaviors of nations and ultimately to international unmanageability. Much of the current “unmanageability” of contemporary life in patriarchal societies, is then viewed as a consequence of a patriarchal preoccupation</span> with activities, events, and experiences that reflect historically male-gender-identified beliefs, values, attitudes, and assumptions. Included <span style="font-size: 11pt;">among these real-life consequences are precisely those concerns with nuclear proliferation, war, environmental destruction, and violence towards women</span>, which many feminist see as <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the logical outgrowth of patriarchal thinking.</span> In fact, it is often<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> only though observing these dysfunctional behaviors</span>—the symptoms of dysfunctionality—<span style="font-size: 11pt;">that one can truly see that and how patriarchy serves to maintain and perpetuate them</span>. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">When patriarchy is understood as a dysfunctional system, this “unmanageability” can be seen for what it is—as a predictable and thus logical consequence of patriarchy.</span>The theme that <span style="font-size: 11pt;">global environmental crisis, war, and violence generally are predictable and logical consequences of sexism and patriarchal culture</span> is pervasive in ecofeminist literature. Ecofeminist Charlene Spretnak, for instance, argues that “a militarism and warfare are continual features of a patriarchal society because they reflect and instill patriarchal values and fulfill needs of such a system. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Acknowledging the context of patriarchal conceptualizations that feed militarism is the first step toward reducing their impact and preserving the earth”.</span> Stated in terms of the foregoing model of patriarchy as a dysfunctional social system, the claim by Spretnak and other feminists take on a clearer meaning: <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Patriarchal conceptual frameworks legitimate impaired thinking</span> (about women, national and regional conflict, the environment) <span style="font-size: 11pt;">which is manifested in behaviors which</span>, if continued, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">will make life on earth</span> difficult, if not <span style="font-size: 11pt;">impossible.</span> It is a stark message, but it is plausible. Its plausibility lies in understanding the conceptual roots of various women-nature-peace connections in regional, national and global contexts.


**The border carries a multiplicity of meanings. For the immigrant, it is a site for freedom, for the corporations, an opportunity for expansion of exploitation. The plan is critical to combatting the ideological presuppositions of maquiladora workers by United States populace**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elvia R. </span>**Arriola 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(B.A., California State University, Los Angeles J.D., University of California, Berkeley M.A., New York University, Professor Arriola joined NIU Law in 2001 and teaches Constitutional Law, Gender, Sexuality and the Law, Civil Rights Litigation, Family Law and a research and writing seminar, Women, Law and the Global Economy. She is a Women's Studies Faculty Associate. “VOICES FROM THE BARBED WIRES OF DESPAIR: WOMEN IN THE MAQUILADORAS, LATINA CRITICAL LEGAL THEORY, AND GENDER AT THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">49 DePaul L. Rev. 729 1999-2000 (http://heinonline.org)</span>

Maria's life is a symbol of the life of millions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> working today </span>along the border in over 4,000 maquiladoras.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It </span>begins with the wages they earn for their hard labor. Earning only 264 pesos per week <span style="font-size: 8pt;">310 Maria worked for Maxell for three years:</span> Our wages are so low the company gives us a weekly bonus of food coupons worth 55 pesos. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have two sons who live with me. </span>My oldest is 19. He has been working in a maquiladora for four years, since he was small. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">He </span>couldn't continue going to school because we couldn't get by on what I was earning.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The younger one is 16, and just started in a small shop where they're teaching him the job. </span>Because he's still small<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and just learning,</span> he's earning enough for his bus fare and his food, and that's all<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.311 -Maria, a maquiladora worker.</span> The hardest part of Maria's livelihood is not having enough money to survive on even with working so hard:<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "Between my oldest son and myself</span>, we bring in about 410 pesos a week. Water is very expensive. Gas (for cooking) is very expensive. Food is very expensive. If we want to eat meat, it can't stretch that far<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. '312</span> Maria described the relationship with the company as one rooted in fear. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is illustrated </span>in her tale of the time a few workers and herself decided to ask the company for some transportation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span> given the distance<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> they had to travel, their low pay, </span>and the cost of the bus fares<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>She and other workers talked<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> among themselves "</span>undercover<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>because we were afraid. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Normally, </span>the majority of the people don't really participate in anything.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We </span>always fear we'll be discovered and fired.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Everything has to be done undercover. '313 Eventually, the company provided them with a van, for which they were grateful, since the money not spent on a bus meant "another container of [purified drinking] water or a kilo of tortillas. '314 </span>When their plant manager was asked why they could not get just a little more money for their work, the response they got typified theattitudes of the industry: I asked the assistant manager of our shift why they can't pay us a little more. On the other side of the border, people working for the same company earn in an hour what we earn in a day<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He told us that</span> the company came here because we work so cheap. If we pressured them to pay more, they would just take the work somewhere else and we would be left without jobs.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I think this is really just an excuse, to make us grateful for our jobs.315 -Maria, a maquiladora worker. </span>Contemplating her future, Maria thinks mostly about not losing her job because "[o]nce you get to be a certain age, they don't want you anymore." <span style="font-size: 8pt;">316</span> Maria's closing words<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to a reporter in 1996, a few years after the signing of NAIFTA,</span> illustrate how the lives of maquila workers are central to the reinforcement of bordered attitudes-between United States corporate privilege and a Third World nation's economic dependency,between <span style="font-size: 8pt;">charges of </span>exploitation and defenses of a foreign economy's surplus labor, or women's work and men's work, citizens and illegal aliens, Mexicans and Americans and so on. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>U.S.-Mexico border powerfully affects the psyche of those living in the Ibarra household on a daily basis: <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I've </span>thought about crossing the border, but I'm scared to do it.I have my sons. What would happen to them if I left them by themselves? ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But </span>the younger one is desperate, and he says he wants to go across. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I tell him he has to be 18 but he's free. How could I stop him? Here or there, who knows what could happen? And over there, it's very bad. Because of lack of schooling, he doesn't know English. So what would he be going to? To be humiliated? To work? </span>No, no, I tell him, better here. But he just says, well, maybe later on then.3<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 17 -Maria, a maquiladora worker.</span> To the working poor, the border is a symbol of escape from the kind of poverty and despair seen in the lives of Maria and her two sons<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-o</span>f having to live in a makeshift house, with another family and on approximately U.S. $35.00 a week.The border is a powerful magnet drawing people to it from the north and from the south.From the north come the American investors who know the border means more profits and lower production costs (cheaper wages). From the south come the people who leave behind the way of life under subsistence farming and forced by fate and circumstance to find work hopefully, at or across the border.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But, </span>the border is a symbol of freedom on both sides. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">While</span> the Mexican side of the border symbolizes the hope for freedom from destitution and poverty, the American side lures employers to escape the pressures of unionized workers and demands for livable wages or working conditions.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>myths and realities of the border<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as the symbol of corporate opportunity and </span>privilege are so powerful today that the idea of a Dallas-based maquiladora being sued for the wrongful death of several workers in a Texas court because of the company's negligent practices struck the President of the Maquiladora Association as just plain odd<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. When he heard of the $30 million settlement he stated, "</span>[W]hat's the legality of having a jury in Eagle Pass decide about something that happened in Mexico?<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> '318 </span>These are the words of someone who clearly knows that to cross the border as an investor into Mexico entails great freedoms. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, </span>it is a certainty that is not available to the frustrated maquiladora employee who wants to venture away from Mexico in search of a better life.


**Justice must be immediate – the 1ac’s epistemic confrontation interrupts the inherent superiority complex that accompanies immigration policies**
**Doty 2006** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roxanne Lynn is Associate Professor of Political Science in Arizona State University, Tempe) Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2006 35: 53 “Fronteras Compasivas and the Ethics of Unconditional Hospitality” Dec 1, 2006 http://mil.sagepub.com/content/35/1/53.citation Herm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If one follows Derrida’s understanding of the general text as experience and writing in the broad sense as practices that signify, construct meaning, and close off meaning, then </span>Humane Borders ‘writes’ with a textual voice that weaves itself ‘so as to be effaced’.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">55 </span>Their voice may not be effaced in terms of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>publicity <span style="font-size: 8pt;">they receive,</span> but it is effaced in terms of any possible debt owed by the recipients of their hospitality.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is </span>with a certain ‘voice’ that Humane Borders speaks to those who are thirsty<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the desert, </span>a voice that does not demand recognition or gratitude. Theirs is the ethical work of giving to the stranger without hope of return or remuneration.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Human Borders</span> practises a ‘writing’ that engages a double-reading of the border, a reading that carefully interprets the texts of state sovereignty and national identity,but <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that </span>simultaneously destabilises them by locating points of otherness implied in these in the form of death to the innocent others seeking only to share in what these sovereign texts purport to hold near and dear. Through the recognition of and respect for the presence and the plight of others, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">this </span>writing exhibits an unboundedness which interrupts notions of polity, justice, ethics, and hospitality which are anchored in an unquestioned allegiance to the nation-state<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as a political, social, and cultural form </span>through which issues of legality, ethics, and rights must be posed and answered. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I am not suggesting that Humane Borders advocates destruction of the nation-state or even completely open borders, but only that their ‘writing’ opens onto many possibilities of which this might be one. </span>Theirs is but a momentary interruption, but an interruption nonetheless. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The form this interruption takes is as follows. </span>Illegal immigration forces a constant re-enactment of the founding violence that establishes the nation-state and maintains its authority, but <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that </span>generally remains invisible in our awareness of life around us. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This </span>re-enactment consists of the violence of border/immigration policies that devalue the lives of those who are ‘not us’ so as to produce ‘us’ continually.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> While, in one sense, Humane Borders seeks to mitigate this violence through the provision of life-sustaining water, in an e</span>qually significant sense their practice demystifies the brutality necessary to maintain the illusion of our bounded democratic polity. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this sense water stations are moments of deconstruction happening.</span> There is an immediacy to the practice<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of placing water in the desert. T</span>he very existence of Humane Borders is a response to a situation demanding immediate attention.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>decision takes place with a degree of urgency. One cannot wait for the horizon of knowledge that could provide all of the historical and theoretical justifications for the decision. Such a distant vista might mean death, death at the very instant when an immediate decision is required. ‘We’re not going to wait around and let people die’,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> says Robin Hoover. 56 </span>Justice, however unrepresentable, says Derrida, doesn’t wait. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘A</span> just decision is always required immediately’<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>such a decision ‘always remains a finite moment of urgency and precipitation’.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">57 But t</span>his moment of urgency and finitude exceeds itself and opens onto a ‘to come’, a justice yet to be, a venir, an incalculable justice. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This raises the question of the temporal dimension of justice. What is its time horizon? </span>Does justice happen in just a moment or must it move along a passage to some end-point when an ultimate condition of wellbeing<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would happen? I would argue, informed by my understanding of Derrida’s relevant writings, that </span>justice can happen in a moment.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Indeed</span> it must happen in a moment, the moment of madness that rends time and space.5<span style="font-size: 8pt;">8 Of course, </span>it would be desirable for immigration policies to be reformed so as to eliminate the situation that leads to deaths in the desert.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> That too would be just. But, this does not mean that the more immediate offering of water is any less significant nor any less an instance of justice.</span>


**Indeed, we see through all the lies – these narratives show us the tendency to erase the identity of men women and children and bears witness to the historic conflicts between the First and the Third World – the historical analysis attests to the current political ignorance to our inherent gendered views of the border. The 1ac interrupts the endless cycle of affirmation of the status quo in favor of hearing the voices that have something worth saying**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elvia R. </span>**Arriola 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(B.A., California State University, Los Angeles J.D., University of California, Berkeley M.A., New York University, Professor Arriola joined NIU Law in 2001 and teaches Constitutional Law, Gender, Sexuality and the Law, Civil Rights Litigation, Family Law and a research and writing seminar, Women, Law and the Global Economy. She is a Women's Studies Faculty Associate. “VOICES FROM THE BARBED WIRES OF DESPAIR: WOMEN IN THE MAQUILADORAS, LATINA CRITICAL LEGAL THEORY, AND GENDER AT THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">49 DePaul L. Rev. 729 1999-2000 (http://heinonline.org)</span>

My reliance on narratives<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in this article, therefore, </span>is a Latina-centered method of analysis intended to grasp as thoroughly as possible the impact of the laws and the foreign policy that are intertwined in sustaining the political economies<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and social realities that function at the U.S.-Mexico border. </span>These have operated with a tendency of erasing the identities of women, men, and children who have been ignored or blatantly used and oppressed by these socio-legal systems.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">132 </span>These narratives may bear witness to historic conflicts between a First World and a Third World country.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But, </span>they will also attest to ignorance or at least insensitivity by the larger citizenry on both sides of the border as to the extreme nature of the inhumanities that have been wrought by the intersections of at least three sets of American law and policy:NAFTA, immigration law, and federal drug enforcement <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The task of deconstructing the meaning of life on the border, using a Latina-centered feminist critical analysis, is indeed a challenging one. </span>The explicit public policy of both nations is to applaud the American foreign investments in Mexico that have "accelerated women's employment in Mexico<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."'1 33 </span>Arguably, their high employment in these industries marks a significant modernization feature<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, or has created </span>new jobs for otherwise illegal immigrants in the United States<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 134 Also, in the abstract, </span>transnational labor assures the American consumer lower prices for necessities and luxuries produced by the //maquiladoras////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From such an abstract view, life on the border appears to function smoothly under the law and public policy that led to NAFTA and prior trade agreements promoting cross-border foreign investments. </span>People leave impoverished villages and find work. If they do not find housing they create it for themselves.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">135 If fired from a job, or pushed out, they manage to cross into the United States and create other shadow economies. But, </span>the niceties of the legal jargon and political rhetoric do not easily reveal the human drama that underlies this historic economic conflict and inter-dependency between Mexico and the United States<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>nor does the abstract concern itself with the //lives// of the people without whom there would be no "off-shore assemblies" or "foreign manufacturing." Therefore, we need a perspective that is grounded in social justice<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>one that searches for the "voices of the ghosts in the machines."<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'1 36 </span>These voices are of workers, of people entitled to the minimum human rights of food, shelter, clothing, education, and medical care. A human rights perspective based on women's narratives is able to capture graphically the tremendous social conflict and pain that is also a byproduct of the wildly "successful" NAFTA along with the expansion of the //maquiladora// program at the border<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The next section explores that conflict within the corporate activities that have spawned under the public policy that encourages United States foreign investments in Mexico.</span>


**It’s the only way, the Border reflects something to be forgotten, something that allows US citizens to go out and have a weekend getaway, cheap medicine and an easy way to turn a profit, but from the forgotten side of the border, where life is a constant battle to survive – the border is hope and it’s closed down by racist and gendered US policies. Our act is the infinite obligation that even policymakers are held to – an obligation to stop the racism and human rights violation that are currently being selectively ignored, every other policy has been shown to fail**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elvia R. </span>**Arriola 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(B.A., California State University, Los Angeles J.D., University of California, Berkeley M.A., New York University, Professor Arriola joined NIU Law in 2001 and teaches Constitutional Law, Gender, Sexuality and the Law, Civil Rights Litigation, Family Law and a research and writing seminar, Women, Law and the Global Economy. She is a Women's Studies Faculty Associate. “VOICES FROM THE BARBED WIRES OF DESPAIR: WOMEN IN THE MAQUILADORAS, LATINA CRITICAL LEGAL THEORY, AND GENDER AT THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">49 DePaul L. Rev. 729 1999-2000 (http://heinonline.org)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have previously argued that </span>narratives and stories,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even those gleaned from popular culture, </span>can humanize the law, that is, flesh out its impact on people's lives.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 1 </span>In the context of exploring the breadth of the social injustices at the U.S.-Mexico border, which teems with opportunities for a betterlife as well as<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for </span>the high risks of death at the hands of United States agents, storytelling is crucial.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">102 Arguably, taking on the subject of the border as a whole by deconstructing the interrelationship between routine border patrol enforcement, which appears mostly to impact male migrants, and the transnational relocation of American companies who will mostly employ Latinas, is not possible. It will either be too much or too little in my effort to grasp fully the interrelationships between life, labor, and law on both sides of the border. In fact, </span>taking on such a project feels like a transgressive act, one that violates the intellectual or political borders discouraging me from centralizing the experiences of Mexican citizens while I presume to analyze the impact of American law and policy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.103 But </span>for a critical legal theorist, this is a worthy transgressive act<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Undoubtedly, </span>to open the door to the study of the border is to invite an overwhelming sense of defeatism<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>This is the daunting task of deconstructing all of what is embedded in the casual mention of "life on the border."To residents of the Southwest, the short phrase means so much<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, although its interpretation will obviously vary depending upon the person's own identity. </span>Among the dominant classes, for<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> example, including Anglo-whites and assimilated Mexican-Americans, or other non-Mexicans, </span>the reference evokes images of the opportunities for cheap imported products and a high return on the American dollar for resorts, hotels, liquor, and weekend getaways.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At one time an American's crossing into Mexico also meant the quick abortion one could not obtain in the United States or even a quick divorce. 10 4 But, </span>a look at the border from a human rights or social justice standpoint triggers a more complex picture<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Many are able to ignore<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it </span>because a host of common stereotypes effectively dehumanize the identity of the border resident/Mexican citizen into faceless "illegals<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,"' 0 1 5 "</span>dumb Mexicans,"<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'1 6 "</span>wets<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" '10 7 </span>or "wetbacks," and "difficult to train Mexican maids."<span style="font-size: 8pt;">' 08 Yet, </span>underlying these stereotypes are the voices of persons whose human needs and despair intersect with socio-economic problems that are vast, originating as they do in seemingly uncontrollable phenomena such as the culture of poverty,<span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 9 </span>legitimized corporate profiteering through the use of cheap foreign labor, and environmental abuse.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The problems are compounded by limited or uncoordinated bi-governmental oversight of the corporate activities that give rise to the occupational and environmental hazards, either because of incomplete restraints or loopholes in immigration regulations,t" 0 trade agreements like NAFTA," 1 or lax enforcement of labor policies under Mexican law. 112 </span>The researcher of life on the border must also confront the prevailing attitude that whatever happens on the other side is of no concern to Americans, no matter how bad the problem<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.113 I would argue, however, that </span>some issues involving the U.S.-Mexico border cannot be ignored by the socially progressive theorist.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For some people, </span>life on the border is a constant skirting of the edges of death. Exposure to life-threatening working conditions or inhaled production chemicals are a problem.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">' 14 At the very least, th</span>is is an issue of human rights or environmental racism. As the workforce in these American owned maquiladoras is highly feminized, the issue of women's treatment should evoke the concerns of the feminist theorist<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>As the women in //maquiladoras// are mostly Mexicanas or from Central and South America, their treatment is a concern for the Latina critical legal theorist. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question then is what is the appropriate response and how does one analyze the social justice issues of "life on the U.S.-Mexico border," with a rational and manageable approach capable of producing recommendable solutions either in law or public policy?</span>

=Plan= 

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure serving official United States’ ports-of-entry along the United States-Mexico border.**

=Solvency= 



<span class="Underline">**The 1ac creates an epistemic confrontation with the other that causes ideological shift in the United States federal government**</span>
**Rosenberg 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Judith Rosenberg, Ph.D. Philosophy University of Texas at Austin, 2006 Supervisor: Linda Ferreira-Buckley “The Rhetoric of Globalization: Can the Maquiladora Worker Speak?” University of Texas at Austin http://repositories.lib.utexas.edu/bitstream/handle/2152/2632/rosenbergj54173.pdf?sequence=2 Herm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But watch out! I</span><span class="Underline">f we, author and audience, enter into dialog with the workers with commitment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span class="Underline">not just to do charity work i</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">n the colonias</span><span class="Underline"> or leftist tourism in the industrial parks—like it or not, we will have to make with the workers relationships of equality and reorganize ourselves by democratic principles that match theirs. We will encounter the epistemological or cognitive problem.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> That</span><span class="Underline"> can shake up our identities, confuse us, and make us suffer because we thought they live in a more authoritarian society and that we carry the torch of democracy, or are more worldly, more strategically placed and smarter,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or</span><span class="Underline"> possess a more informed analysis or ideology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We </span><span class="Underline">generally don’t like to tamper with our identities. Once we enter </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the relationship, </span><span class="Underline">there’s no going back</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Listen to the </span><span class="Underline">reflections of a 25-year-old law student</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Albuquerque, Brooke Nowack-Neeley, </span><span class="Underline">who grew up in El Paso and traveled with Austin Tan Cerca on a solidarity delegation to visit the workers in Juarez in October 2004.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I asked her how her social justice consciousness got born and she answered by describing her experience with the Juárez shantytowns or colonias, as she has known them for 15 years. </span><span class="Underline">“My grandfather was a Methodist minister </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(he was also a chaplain during the Korean War). </span><span class="Underline">He knew of my situation growing up[physically and emotionally violent, alcoholic stepfather] and he himself didn't have the money to relieve the situation. But he literally gave much more to me than money could give</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">When I was 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> years old,</span><span class="Underline"> he and his wife drove to El Paso </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(where I lived) from Augusta, GA. </span><span class="Underline">He was about 65 at the time. He took me across the border into Juarez and showed me the Juarez beyond the Mercado that I had not seen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He took me through the Colonias in Anapra, which was a Juárez city landfill before the colonias were established. </span><span class="Underline">It had an unspeakable effect on me and changed me greatly whether I knew it or not, whether I wanted it or not. It helped me to keep things in perspective; I think that is what my grandfather wanted. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Though</span><span class="Underline"> I have found myself lost in my life at times (in my own little bubble), I cannot escape the realities of injustice toward people throughout the world and in our own country.Because of that experience</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [13 years ago], </span><span class="Underline">when faced [today] with a biography of The Rolling Stones or Che Guevara, I have to choose Che. When faced with the choice between Vogue and Z Magazine, I have to choose Z.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So for my lack of fashion sense, I have my grandfather to thank!</span><span class="Underline"> I find myself in this strange parallel life where I am trying to be a "normal American" while still struggling to understand what it means to be an American in the dynamics of the role America plays in the injustices of the world. This second reflection is deemed antithetical to "normal America" and even "dangerous" to America's livelihood. When I sit down and really think about it all, I want nothing more than to open my eyes and say it's all just a nightmare and it's not true. But the sad reality remains and I am left with the images, from when I was a child, of other children confined to Anapra, juxtaposed with images of children [still] confined to Anapra, now that I am an adult.</span>

**Western academia is trapped within the chasm of privilege – their privilege traps them to their own reality, an unavoidable trap that skews any and all action into always affirming the status quo**
**Rosenberg 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Judith Rosenberg, Ph.D. Philosophy University of Texas at Austin, 2006 Supervisor: Linda Ferreira-Buckley “The Rhetoric of Globalization: Can the Maquiladora Worker Speak?” University of Texas at Austin http://repositories.lib.utexas.edu/bitstream/handle/2152/2632/rosenbergj54173.pdf?sequence=2 Herm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have p</span>lenty of common ground with my audience<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; however, in some ways, a</span> chasm gapes between us that motivates my struggle to demonstrate what I think is the unique significance of the Mexican workers’ movement. My audience’s place in the academy is <span style="font-size: 8pt;">precisely </span>what creates the chasm.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Their </span>culture and class make it hard for them to understand what the maquila workers say and door <span style="font-size: 8pt;">even</span> know that the discourse of the maquiladora worker exists. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">My audience writes books, advances theory, and argues with other theoreticians. </span>Their privileged academic position ultimately entraps them in affirming the status quo. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Their careers, their passions,</span> and their identities depend on it.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> If they are leaders,</span> their inherent attachment to the status quo may lead their constituencies nowhere.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>tension between their conservationism and their progressive theory doesn’t belie their conscious commitments; <span style="font-size: 8pt;">but, </span>the tension is an unavoidable result of living in the confines of Western academia<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, caught</span> in a time warp where they cannot yet comprehend how globalization, in its gory and surprising glory, has shifted the ground under them so that they don’t quite know where they are.

**Transportation infrastructure is plagued by intellectuals lost within that chasm – the 1ac’s act of listening attempts to bridge that gap and connect author to audience**
**Rosenberg 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Judith Rosenberg, Ph.D. Philosophy University of Texas at Austin, 2006 Supervisor: Linda Ferreira-Buckley “The Rhetoric of Globalization: Can the Maquiladora Worker Speak?” University of Texas at Austin http://repositories.lib.utexas.edu/bitstream/handle/2152/2632/rosenbergj54173.pdf?sequence=2 Herm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For me, </span>the philosopher Kenneth Burke explainsthe predicament of progressive intellectuals who, despite themselves, hold class-limited views.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I will turn to him for help because I think </span>globalization poses a profound problem of cognition and a crucial disconnection between classes in their “reading of the world,” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as Freire would say, </span>or their “knowledge of reality”<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as Burke and Lakoff would say. We inhabit a world where basic cognition is agonizing. First of all,</span> there’s too much reality, too much world—it’s worldwide!— and it is not, as the most distracted among us must intuit, just an extension of the United States.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Second of all,</span> our sources of information—media—are not trustworthy. The total problem is cataclysmic. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some people don’t care—they’re busy—but for others</span> the problem creates an unquenchable hunger for the world that they sometimes satisfy by running screaming from their lives and casting themselves upon the world, symbol systems shoved aside and hearts wide open.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> An example is a former Austin school councilor Gael Sherman whose website begins Where the hell is Gael? Stories are swirling - Gael is doing what? Going around the world . . . for a whole year??? She retired?? She got divorced too?? They sold the house and she gave John all the stuff? Someone said she buzzed her curls and is solid gray. Can you say that girl got hit with a mid-life hormonal crisis or what? (Sherman). Gael took off in fall 2004 and her itinerary covered Hawaii, Southeast Asia—she was there during the Tsunami—New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, Peru and Brazil. What drove her to it? What created the envelope that she had to break through? If explanation is any solace, help is on the way. </span>Burke ask<span style="font-size: 8pt;">s, on page 48 of Language as Symbolic Action,</span> [C]an we bring ourselves to realize just how overwhelmingly much of what we mean by “reality” has been built up for us through nothing but our symbol systems<span style="font-size: 8pt;">? </span>Take away our books, and what little do we know about history, biography, even something so “down to earth” as the relative position of seas and continents? What is our “reality” for today (beyond the paper-thin line of our own particular lives)<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> but </span>all this clutter of symbols <span style="font-size: 8pt;">about the past, </span>combined with whatever things we know mainly through maps, magazines, newspapers, and the like about the present?<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In school, </span>as they go from class to class, students turn from one idiom to another.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>various courses in the curriculum are in effect but so many different terminologies.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And </span>however important to us is the tiny sliver of reality each of us has experienced firsthand, the whole overall “picture” is but a construct of our symbol systems.To mediate on this<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fact</span> until one sees its full implications is much like peering over the edge of things into an ultimate abyss<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And </span>doubtless that’s one reason why, though man is typically the symbol-using animal, he clings to a kind of naïve verbal realism that refuses to let him realize the full extent of the role played by symbolicity in his notions of reality.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (48) I have emphasized the last idea in the </span>Burke <span style="font-size: 8pt;">passage because it </span>helps us understand not only the plight of the academics but also of that other brotherhood of thinkers—neo-liberal policy makers in government and business who also figure prominently in my dissertation and speak from a different reality, one that directly denies the maquiladora worker’s. The problem of cognition and of epistemology provides the context for the dissertation’s title. Can the maquiladora workers speak? Well, I reckon. **Can we listen? That’s the question.** Maquiladora workers can’t avoid knowing where they are or knowing how globalization affects them. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">It has </span>degraded and reconstructed the landscape that they look at every day. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>more conscious or more mobilized among them can straighten us out on this question of globalization.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> What’s more, they’re nearby; threads of culture, history and economy connect them to us. Those with the highest consciousness have found ways to become subjects of their own lives and fend off the way “globalization” objectifies them. </span>They occupy a unique historic position because they face and negotiate power in a globalized world order at its most naked and undiluted point—the workplace; more over, not just any workplace, but one expressly devised by the global economy, by ideologies of comparative advantage, production for export, and ideal combinations of labor and capital that aim to increase wealth rather than distribute it.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>maquiladora workers operate in a workplace that is highly charged, as a symbol of the economic order and as a point of real power. We<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>by contrast<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>assume there is no alternative at the workplace than to fit ourselves as neatly as we can into jobs and careers and life plans as they are presented to us<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>We are docile and averse to risk, despite our superior<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> material </span>resources and safety nets. We have,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> though, </span>a disadvantage, because of the value we place on individuality, defined by achievement and success. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">It </span>makes us afraid to risk “failure,” a mark of divine disfavor <span style="font-size: 8pt;">threatening us from our Calvinist roots. </span>In this way our culture makes us see each case individually.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It </span>deprives us of the possibility of joining with others in solidarity and finding safety in numbers. **Maquiladora workers can help academics better equip their ideological and philosophical positions and give academics tools to connect their theory to a practice.**

**The 1ac’s choice of transportation infrastructure on the border opens up our understanding of the epistemological understanding of the border. Our choice produces better understanding to the overall world and a better pedagogical approach to communication**
**Takacs 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Takacs is an Associate Professor in the Department of Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State University He was a 2000-2001 Carnegie Fellow for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning where he (with colleague Gerald Shenk) focused on designing effective pedagogies to help students become ethical, effective, self-aware members of the civic and political lives of their communities.) Social Justice Vol. 29, No. 4 (2002) “Positionality, Epistemology, and Social Justice in the Classroom” : http://www.jstor.org/stable/29768156 </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To </span>work toward a just world a world where all have equal access to opportunity means<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as a start,</span> opening up heart and mind to the perspectives of others<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We </span>must be able to hear each other and to respect and learn from what we hear. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">We</span> must understand how we are positioned in relation to others as dominant/subordinate, marginal/center, empowered/powerless.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In The Feminist Classroom, Maher and Tetreault (2001: 164) describe </span>"the idea of positionality, in which people are defined not in terms of fixed identities, but by their location within shifting networks of relationships, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">which can be analyzed and changed." </span>For those who teach for social justice, the "and changed" part is crucial: understanding positionality means understanding where you stand with respect to power,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an essential skill for social change agents. From this understanding,</span> we have a standpoint from which to challenge power and change ourselves. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Few things are more difficult than to see outside the bounds of our own perspective to be able to identify assumptions that we take as universal truths, but that instead have been crafted by our own unique identity and experiences in the world. </span>We live much of our lives in our own heads, in a reconfirming dialogue with ourselves. Even when we discuss crucial issues with others, much of the dialogue is not dialogue: it is monologue where we work to convince others to understand us or to adopt our view.Simply acknowledging that one's knowledge claims are not universal truths that one's positionality can bias one's epistemology is itself a leap for many people<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, one that can help to make us more open to the world's possibilities. In a recent book on teaching history, Sam Wineburg (2001: 24) states,</span> "the narcissist sees the world both the past and the present in his own image. Mature historical knowing teaches us to do the opposite: to go beyond our own image, to go beyond our brief life, and to go beyond the fleeting moment in human history into which we have been born.When we develop the skill of understanding how we know what we know, we acquire a key to lifelong learning.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" But one need not limit our excursions to days gone by:</span> in our classrooms, the present swirls around us, and the voices of this present can lead beyond narcissism and into deeper understanding of the chaotic world that demands our attention and intervention<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>When we teach students to understand how their positionality in relation to others shapes what they know about the world, we help them sample the rigors and delights of the examined life. When we ask students to learn to think for themselves and to understand themselves as thinkers rather than telling them what to think and have them recite it back we help foster habits of introspection, analysis, and open, joyous communication.


<span class="Underline">**Crossborder traveling in projected to increase drastically – upgrading our Ports-of-Entry and connecting roads is critical to improve quality of life on the border**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">FHWA 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Federal Highway Administration, California-Baja California Border Master Plan, http://www.borderplanning.fhwa.dot.gov/documents/baja_execSumm.pdf) MattG</span>

<span class="Underline">Crossborder travel at</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the six land </span><span class="Underline">ports of entry</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (POEs) in the California-Baja California region </span><span class="Underline">has grown </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> significantly over the years.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The San Diego County-Tijuana/Tecate region is home to the San YsidroPuerta México, the Otay Mesa-Mesa de Otay, and the Tecate-Tecate POEs while the Imperial CountyMexicali region hosts the Calexico-Mexicali, Calexico East-Mexicali II, and Andrade-Los Algodones </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> POEs. </span><span class="Underline">Travel demand is expected to increase at all POEs in the region between 2005 and 2030.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Total </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> population in the California-Baja California study area was estimated at more than six million in 2005 and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is projected to grow to almost 9.5 million by 2030.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline">Growth in population and economic activity will </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> increase crossborder travel demand and continue to add pressure to the POE facilities and connecting </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> roads. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> Given the current and projected travel demand at the existing POEs, improving the capacity and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> operations of the current infrastructure is critical to decrease traffic congestion and delays, facilitate </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> international trade, and improve the quality of life for residents in the border region. Federal</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, state, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> regional, and local </span><span class="Underline">agencies responsible for planning and implementation of POEs and related </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> transportation facilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the California-Baja California region </span><span class="Underline">agree that a master planning process is </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> needed to evaluate and integrate POE and transportation infrastructure development on a coordinated </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> basis.</span>
=1ac - Meadows= 
=Contention 1 - The border= 

Scenario 1: Control

Border control policies have failed – instead of stopping immigration it pushes the attempt to remote and dangerous places along the border resulting in needless suffering and death.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel A. </span><span class="Underline">Scharf </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">B.A., Lafayette College (2001); J.D. candidate, Case Western Reserve University School of Law (May 2006). “FOR HUMANE BORDERS: TWO DECADES OF DEATH AND ILLEGAL ACTIVITY IN THE SONORAN DESERT” </span><span class="Underline">2006 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1/4/2006 [[http://www.case.edu/orgs/jil/vol.38.1/D%20Scharf.pdf]]</span>

Mario<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Albert Diaz’s </span>death is not an anomaly. While the numbers vary depending on the source,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2 </span>the death toll for people illegally migrating into the United States (“<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S.”) </span>along the U.S.-Mexico border<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Border”) 3 in the America’s Southwestern Deserts </span>has risen since the U.S. government launched Operation Gatekeeper in 1994<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 4 </span>The U.S.’s failure to confront significant issues along the Border, and its continued implementation of a Border policy that is ineffective and lacks humanity<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>continues to cause an increase in the number of deaths near the Border<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The recent upsurge in deaths 5 in the Sonoran Desert, an area that straddles the Border with parts of California, Arizona, and New Mexico to its north, dates back to October 1, 1994 when the U.S. launched Operation Gatekeeper, a Border initiative that greatly reduced illicit Border activity around San Diego, California. 6 </span>Since its inception, Operation Gatekeeper has served as a model for future U.S. Border operations.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 7 </span>Operation Gatekeeper spawned what leading academics have labeled the “Gatekeeper Complex,” a term that describes the U.S.’s policy of increasing resources dedicated to preventing illegal Border crossings along traditional migrant paths.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 8 When the U.S. closed off traditional Border crossing routes with Operation Gatekeeper around San Diego, California, and with Operation Hold-the-Line (originally named Operation Blockade) around El Paso, Texas, 9 </span>the U.S. pushed illegal migration into smaller satellite cities and towns along the Border.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 10 </span>When the U.S. then increased enforcement around the smaller cities and towns, those who sought to enter the U.S. illegally moved to the sparsely populated deserts.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11 Today, </span>the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“</span>DHS<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”) </span>is responsible for preventing illegal immigration into the U.S.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 12 The U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency (“CPB”), a branch of the DHS, has continued the Immigration and Naturalization Service’s (“INS”) </span>policy of “prevention through deterrence” by increasing its Border Patrol’s presence in areas that serve as traditional entry points along the Border.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 13 The INS officials who designed the Gatekeeper Complex enforcement policies believed that “</span>intensified and targeted control would discourage many wouldbe migrants from even attempting the journey [across the Border] because of the additional physical difficulty, and the increased financial and psychological costs of the northbound journey<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” 14 </span>The INS’s belief has proven to be mistaken<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and </span>illegal immigration across the Border has not stopped<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; 15 </span>migration has merely shifted to more remote and dangerous places along the Border<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 16 Specifically, Figure 1 below makes clear that while illegal immigration slowed in San Diego and El Paso, apprehension rates, a statistic used as a proxy to estimate the number of people who illegally cross the Border, 17 rose significantly around El Centro in California and Yuma and Tucson in Arizona. 18 </span>Those regions in the Sonoran Desert contain some of the harshest conditions anywhere on either side of the Border.


Results in needless death in horrid landscapes far from POE’s – The immigrant’s failed attempts are all made possible by US constructions that “terrorist Mexicans” are stealing our land with drugs and undocumented immigrants
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elvia R. </span>Arriola 2000 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(B.A., California State University, Los Angeles J.D., University of California, Berkeley M.A., New York University, Professor Arriola joined NIU Law in 2001 and teaches Constitutional Law, Gender, Sexuality and the Law, Civil Rights Litigation, Family Law and a research and writing seminar, Women, Law and the Global Economy. She is a Women's Studies Faculty Associate. “VOICES FROM THE BARBED WIRES OF DESPAIR: WOMEN IN THE MAQUILADORAS, LATINA CRITICAL LEGAL THEORY, AND GENDER AT THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">49 DePaul L. Rev. 729 1999-2000 ([[http://heinonline.org/|http://heinonline.org]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>there are huge risks for those<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> who take the attitude that border surveillance is not a serious impediment </span>to crossing into the United States to become an undocumented resident<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and/or worker. </span>Many of those risks involve the threat of serious injury and death. Physically crossing<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //al otro lado70// </span>without the right papers forces migrant workers to try to avoid the Border Patrol by attempting to cross perilous mountain ranges and desert landswherethere is neither water, food, nor protection from the extreme weather conditions of the Southwestern United States.In 1996, a twenty-four year old peasant<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> named </span>Eliseo SantosCarmona<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the state of Oaxaca </span>was killed after he plunged off a 120-foot cliff while running from a United States borderagent<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in San Diego County.71 </span>Modesta Lopez<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a twenty-seven year old, from the state of Morelia, </span>was found two weeks after the group she was travelling with in a rural section of California abandoned her<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> because she had become too weak from going without food or water for three days.72 </span>In January of 1997, eight people tried to cross into San Diego, hiked a mountain range at night, and froze to death doing so.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">73 </span>Later in August, a group of six people<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (five men and one woman) </span>were found in a ten-foot drainage ditch that had suddenly flooded during a flash storm<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.74 </span>The factors that account for the life threatening characteristics of a border crossing are the aforementioned extreme weather conditions,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the deaths by drowning in the Rio Grande area, and the increased militarized border of recent decades.75 </span>The typical causes of death are hypothermia, dehydration, and drowning<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 76 A </span>typical news account may highlight the tragedies of human death that occur at the border<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>However, it is generally uncritical of a discourse that casually merges the illegalities of crossing the border to find work with smuggling drugs<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The result is a stream of reporting that often does not separate the problem of Mexican "terrorist activity,"from "10,000 attempted illegal crossings<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" that include people trying to reach "baby-sitting" or other "unskilled-labor jobs on the United States side" 77 </span>to the hot story of how we are "losing America" to the "Mexican smugglers who are flooding America with [drugs] and undocumented immigrants<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. '78 </span>These stories only hint at the heightened level of despair created at the border<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the illegal crossing </span>and the sensational rhetoric that feeds the anti-immigrant hostilities of Americans towards those perceived to be flooding the land with "dangerous criminals, smugglers and drugs.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">' 79 Arguably, </span>the discourse of fear allows the American public to ignore the costs of a militarized border in the recorded human tragedies<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>A recent study<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the University of Houston </span>documented 1,185 deaths due to border crossings from 1993-1996 alone,844 of those in Texas by drowning in the Rio Grande<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and a high majority of the victims as male peasants.80 The male </span>migrants typically leave Mexico's interior and its economic woes.These immigrants are often peasants and farmers<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> whose //ejidos//</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">8</span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">' </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">have been privatized under Mexican land reforms. </span>It is a tragic testament to the death of the Bracero Program82 that once allowed the influx of temporary agricultural workers from Mexico<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.83 </span>While the welcoming policies of the past have died, the peasant's tradition of travelling to //El Norte// to find work has not.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Some of the </span>border-crossers<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even </span>know of the risks they are taking<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Martin Facio, thirty-three, knew of the extreme weather conditions that affect the Tijuana-San Diego area<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the winter, </span>and crossed anyway. "I heard the warnings, but I don't care," he said from behind the bars at the INS detention center where he was being held for deportation back to Mexico. "In Mexico, there is no work."<span style="font-size: 8pt;">84</span>


<span class="Underline">The border is shaped by construction of global security threats – everyone who is not us is deemed evil and associated with organized crime and terrorism </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Valsamis </span>Mitsilegas 2012<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of European Criminal Law and Director of the Criminal Justice Centre at Queen Mary University of London) Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies Vol. 19 #1 (Winter 2012) “Immigration Control in an Era of Globalization: Deflecting Foreigners, Weakening Citizens, Strengthening the State” Project Muse Herm </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Writing on the link between “illegal” immigration and globalization, Catherine Dauvergne has noted that </span><span class="Underline">[t]he impression that the problem of illegal migration is a global one,and </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the fact</span><span class="Underline"> that those who seek to migrate outside the law have access to a geographically broader range of options</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> than in earlier eras, </span><span class="Underline">contribute to the construction of an identity category of people named by the new noun “illegal.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1 </span><span class="Underline">This link</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> between globalization and the perceived facilitation of unwanted movement it entails </span><span class="Underline">has justified the enhancement of immigration control in the West.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Going a step further and looking beyond the debate over illegality in immigration law, this part will demonstrate how</span><span class="Underline"> immigration control has been transformed by shaping state responses to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> counter </span><span class="Underline">perceived global security threats</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">Rather than focusing only oncountering “illegal” movement</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (or, as Dauvergne puts it, “migration outside the law”)</span><span class="Underline">, immigration control herefocuses</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span><span class="Underline">generally on countering movement which is considered “dangerous” or a security threat. This </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">securitized</span><span class="Underline"> approach, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">which </span><span class="Underline">links migration and movement to evils such as</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> transnational organized </span><span class="Underline">crime and terrorism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="Underline">has enabled the development of a global enforcement consensus.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The translation of this consensus</span><span class="Underline"> into legislation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span><span class="Underline">signified a considerable extension of state power at the expense of rights not only of foreigners but also of citizens</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: as will be demonstrated below, in particular in the case of counterterrorism, </span><span class="Underline">securitized immigration controls have shifted the focus from immigration control of third country nationals at the physical border to the generalized surveillance of third-country nationals and citizens alike.</span>

<span class="Underline">Guaranteed rights to the immigrant are still subject to state control – only those that are useful to the state are allowed to cross </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Valsamis </span>Mitsilegas 2012<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of European Criminal Law and Director of the Criminal Justice Centre at Queen Mary University of London) Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies Vol. 19 #1 (Winter 2012) “Immigration Control in an Era of Globalization: Deflecting Foreigners, Weakening Citizens, Strengthening the State” Project Muse Herm </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To a great extent, a close examination of t</span><span class="Underline">he Protocol to Prevent, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children (Trafficking Protocol)</span><span class="Underline"> does justice to the above claims. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">While </span><span class="Underline">it is true that the Protocol focuses on the criminalization of trafficking and the prosecution and punishment of the traffickers </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and </span><span class="Underline">not the trafficked </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">persons,7 </span><span class="Underline">the Protocol does trigger a raft of enforcement measures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">8 </span><span class="Underline">and </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the </span><span class="Underline">provisions on the rights of trafficked </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">persons have been drafted </span><span class="Underline">with the interests of the state firmly in mind. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">While the Trafficking Protocol does contain a separate part on the protection of victims,9</span><span class="Underline"> the latter includes a provision on repatriation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 and the two provisions </span><span class="Underline">aiming at granting rights to victims in the receiving state render these rights largelyconditional upon the discretion of the signatory states.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Article 6 of the Protocol on Assistance to and Protection of Victims of Trafficking obliges states to inter alia, </span><span class="Underline">“[i]n appropriate cases</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and to the extent possible under its domestic law. . .</span><span class="Underline"> protect the privacy and identity of victims of trafficking</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in persons, including, inter alia, </span><span class="Underline">by making legal proceedings relating to such trafficking confidential”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (emphasis added);11 </span><span class="Underline">to introduce measures to “provide to victims</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. . . in </span><span class="Underline">appropriate cases</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: (a) Information on relevant court and administrative proceedings; (b) Assistance to enable their views and concerns to be presented and considered at appropriate stages of criminal proceedings” (emphasis added);12 and “to consider implementing measures to provide for the physical, psychological and social recovery of victims of trafficking” (emphasis added).13 </span><span class="Underline">On the other hand,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Article 7(1) </span><span class="Underline">of the Protocol</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the Status of Victims of Trafficking in Persons in Receiving States</span><span class="Underline"> calls upon states to “consider adopting legislative or other appropriate measures that permit victims of traffickingin persons to remain in its territory,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> temporarily or permanently, in appropriate cases” (emphasis added).14 </span><span class="Underline">In implementing the above provision,states must “give appropriate consideration to humanitarian and compassionate factors.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”15 The Trafficking</span><span class="Underline"> Protocol thus links the rights of victims of trafficking with security of residence under the immigration law in the receiving state. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This approach has been criticized by Elspeth Guild, who points out that </span><span class="Underline">“[b]y focusing on the foreignness of the victim, which is determined by the fact of the border crossing and the lack of a right of residence,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the issue is moved from one about working conditions to one about immigration,” adding that </span><span class="Underline">“[t]he central issue about security within the labour force is exchanged for the issue of the security of border controls and foreigners.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”16 </span><span class="Underline">This shift of focus from labor exploitation to security may also lead to rendering any rights granted</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to victims of trafficking </span><span class="Underline">under immigration law conditional upon the perceived “usefulness” of the victim to the state. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under this functionalist logic, </span><span class="Underline">the state has the discretion to provide security of residence to victims only if the latter prove to be useful in the prosecution of trafficking cases.</span>


The attempt to literally shut out the other devalues lives of those who are “not us” so as to produce “us” continually. 1ac’s interruption stops the constant re-enactment of violence that establishes and maintains the nation-state’s authority
Doty 2006 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roxanne Lynn is Associate Professor of Political Science in Arizona State University, Tempe) Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2006 35: 53 “Fronteras Compasivas and the Ethics of Unconditional Hospitality” Dec 1, 2006 [[http://mil.sagepub.com/content/35/1/53.citation]] Herm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If one follows Derrida’s understanding of the general text as experience and writing in the broad sense as practices that signify, construct meaning, and close off meaning, then </span>Humane Borders ‘writes’ with a textual voice that weaves itself ‘so as to be effaced’.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">55 </span>Their voice may not be effaced in terms of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>publicity <span style="font-size: 8pt;">they receive,</span> but it is effaced in terms of any possible debt owed by the recipients of their hospitality.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is </span>with a certain ‘voice’ that Humane Borders speaks to those who are thirsty<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the desert, </span>a voice that does not demand recognition or gratitude. Theirs is the ethical work of giving to the stranger without hope of return or remuneration.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Human Borders</span> practises a ‘writing’ that engages a double-reading of the border, a reading that carefully interprets the texts of state sovereignty and national identity,but <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that </span>simultaneously destabilises them by locating points of otherness implied in these in the form of death to the innocent others seeking only to share in what these sovereign texts purport to hold near and dear. Through the recognition of and respect for the presence and the plight of others, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">this </span>writing exhibits an unboundedness which interrupts notions of polity, justice, ethics, and hospitality which are anchored in an unquestioned allegiance to the nation-state<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as a political, social, and cultural form </span>through which issues of legality, ethics, and rights must be posed and answered. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I am not suggesting that Humane Borders advocates destruction of the nation-state or even completely open borders, but only that their ‘writing’ opens onto many possibilities of which this might be one. </span>Theirs is but a momentary interruption, but an interruption nonetheless. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The form this interruption takes is as follows. </span>Illegal immigration forces a constant re-enactment of the founding violence that establishes the nation-state and maintains its authority, but <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that </span>generally remains invisible in our awareness of life around us. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This </span>re-enactment consists of the violence of border/immigration policies that devalue the lives of those who are ‘not us’ so as to produce ‘us’ continually.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> While, in one sense, Humane Borders seeks to mitigate this violence through the provision of life-sustaining water, in an e</span>qually significant sense their practice demystifies the brutality necessary to maintain the illusion of our bounded democratic polity. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this sense water stations are moments of deconstruction happening.</span> There is an immediacy to the practice<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of placing water in the desert. T</span>he very existence of Humane Borders is a response to a situation demanding immediate attention.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>decision takes place with a degree of urgency. One cannot wait for the horizon of knowledge that could provide all of the historical and theoretical justifications for the decision. Such a distant vista might mean death, death at the very instant when an immediate decision is required. ‘We’re not going to wait around and let people die’,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> says Robin Hoover. 56 </span>Justice, however unrepresentable, says Derrida, doesn’t wait. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘A</span> just decision is always required immediately’<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>such a decision ‘always remains a finite moment of urgency and precipitation’.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">57 But t</span>his moment of urgency and finitude exceeds itself and opens onto a ‘to come’, a justice yet to be, a venir, an incalculable justice. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This raises the question of the temporal dimension of justice. What is its time horizon? </span>Does justice happen in just a moment or must it move along a passage to some end-point when an ultimate condition of wellbeing<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would happen? I would argue, informed by my understanding of Derrida’s relevant writings, that </span>justice can happen in a moment.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Indeed</span> it must happen in a moment, the moment of madness that rends time and space.5<span style="font-size: 8pt;">8 Of course, </span>it would be desirable for immigration policies to be reformed so as to eliminate the situation that leads to deaths in the desert.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> That too would be just. But, this does not mean that the more immediate offering of water is any less significant nor any less an instance of justice.</span>


<span style="background-color: white;">Justifies endless violence in the name of the nation-state</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">Mack 88</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (John, MD Psychiatrist and Professor @ Harvard Medical School, “The Enemy System,” Published in the Lancet,[[http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html]], JR2)</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">The threat of nuclear annihilation has stimulated us to try to understand what it is about mankind that has led to such self-destroying behavior.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Central to this inquiry is an exploration of the adversarial relationships between ethnic or national groups. It is out of such enmities that war, including nuclear war should it occur, has always arisen. </span><span style="background-color: white;">Enmity between groups of people stems from the interaction of psychological, economic, and cultural elements.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> These </span><span style="background-color: white;">include fear and hostility</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (which are often closely related), </span><span style="background-color: white;">competition over perceived scarce resources</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">,[3] </span><span style="background-color: white;">the need for individuals to identify with a large group or cause</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">,[4] </span><span style="background-color: white;">a tendency to disclaim and assign elsewhere responsibility for unwelcome impulses and intentions, and a peculiar susceptibility to emotional manipulation by leaders who play upon our more savage inclinations</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> in the name of national security or the national interest. </span><span style="background-color: white;">A full understanding of the "enemy system</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">"[3] </span><span style="background-color: white;">requires insights from many specialities, including psychology, anthropology, history, political science, and the humanities. In their statement on violence</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[5] </span><span style="background-color: white;">twenty social and behavioral scientists</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, who met in Seville, Spain, to examine the roots of war, declared that there was no scientific basis for regarding man as an innately aggkressive animal, inevitably committed to war. The Seville statement implies that we have real choices. It also points to a hopeful paradox of the nuclear age: </span><span style="background-color: white;">threat of nuclear war may have provoked our capacity for fear-driven polarization but at the same time it has inspired unprecedented efforts towards cooperation and settlement of differences without violence.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> The Real and the Created Enemy: </span><span style="background-color: white;">Attempts to explore the psychological roots of enmity are frequently met with responses on the following lines: "I can accept psychological explanations of things, but my enemy is real.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> The Russians [or Germans, Arabs, Israelis, Americans] are armed, threaten us, and intend us harm. Furthermore, there are real differences between us and our national interests, such as competition over oil, land, or other scarce resources, and genuine conflicts of values between our two nations. </span><span style="background-color: white;">It is essential that we be strong and maintain a balance or superiority of military and political power, lest the other side take advantage of our weakness"</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background-color: white;">This argument does not address the distinction between the enemy threat and one's own contribution to that threat-by distortions of perception, provocative words, and actions</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">. In short, </span><span style="background-color: white;">the enemy is real, but we have not learned to understand how we have created that enemy, or how the threatening image we hold of the enemy relates to its actual intentions. "We never see our enemy's motives and we never labor to assess his will, with anything approaching objectivity</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">".[6] </span><span style="background-color: white;">Individuals may have little to do with the choice of national enemies</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">. Most Americans, for example, know only what has been reported in the mass media about the Soviet Union. We are largely unaware of the forces that operate within our institutions, affecting the thinking of our leaders and ourselves, and which determine how the Soviet Union will be represented to us. Ill-will and a desire for revenge are transmitted from one generation to another, and we are not taught to think critically about how our assigned enemies are selected for us. In the relations between potential adversarial nations there will have been, inevitably, real grievances that are grounds for enmity. But </span><span style="background-color: white;">the attitude of one people towards another is usually determined by leaders who manipulate the minds of citizens for domestic political reasons which are generally unknown to the public</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">. As Israeli sociologist Alouph Haveran has said, in times of conflict between nations historical accuracy is the first victim.[8] The Image of the Enemy and How We Sustain It: Vietnam veteran William Broyles wrote: "</span><span style="background-color: white;">War begins in the mind, with the idea of the enemy</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">."[9] But </span><span style="background-color: white;">to sustain that idea in war and peacetime a nation's leaders must maintain public support for the massive expenditures that are required.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Studies of enmity have revealed susceptibilities, though not necessarily recognized as such by the governing elites that provide raw material upon which the leaders may draw to sustain the image of an enemy.[7,10] Freud[11] </span><span style="background-color: white;">in his examination of mass psychology identified the proclivity of individuals to surrender personal responsibility to the leaders of large groups.This</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> surrender </span><span style="background-color: white;">takes place in both totalitarian and democratic societies, and without coercion. Leaderscan</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> therefore </span><span style="background-color: white;">designate outside enemies and take actions against them with little opposition.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Much </span><span style="background-color: white;">further research is needed to understand the psychological mechanisms that impel individuals to kill or allow killing in their name, often with little questioning of the morality or consequences of such actions</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">. Philosopher and psychologist Sam Keen asks why it is that in virtually every war "The enemy is seen as less than human? He's faceless. He's an animal"." Keen tries to answer his question: "The </span><span style="background-color: white;">image of the enemy is not only the soldier's most powerful weapon; it is society's most powerful weapon. It enables people en masse to participate in acts of violence they would never consider doing as individuals</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">".[12] National le</span><span style="background-color: white;">aders become skilled in presenting the adversary in dehumanized images.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> The mass media, </span><span style="background-color: white;">taking</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> their c</span><span style="background-color: white;">ues from the leadership, contribute powerfully to the process. The image of the enemy as less than human may be hard to dislodge.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> For example, a teacher in the Boston area reported that during a high school class on the Soviet Union a student protested: "You're trying to get us to see them as people". Stephen Cohen and other Soviet experts have noted </span><span style="background-color: white;">how difficult it is to change the American perception of the Soviet Union, despite the vast amount of new information contradicting old stereotypes</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">." Bernard Shaw in his preface to Heartbreak House, written at the end of World War I, observed ironically: "</span><span style="background-color: white;">Truth telling is not compatible with the defense of the realm". Nations are usually created out of the violent defeat of the former inhabitants of a piece of land or of outside enemies, and national leaders become adept at keeping their people's attention focused on the threat of an outside enemy</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.[14] </span><span style="background-color: white;">Leaders also provide</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> what psychiatrist Vamik Volkan called "</span><span style="background-color: white;">suitable targets of externalization</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">"[10] – i.e., o</span><span style="background-color: white;">utside enemies upon whom both leaders and citizens can relieve their burdens of private defeat, personal hurt, and humiliation.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[15] </span><span style="background-color: white;">All-embracing ideas, such as political ideologies and fixed religious beliefs act as psychological or cultural amplifiers. Such ideologies can embrace whole economic systems, such as socialism or capitalism, or draw on beliefs that imply that a collectivity owes its existence to some higher power in the universe.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> It was not Stalin as an individual whom Nadezhda Mandelstam blamed for the political murder of her poet husband Osip and millions of other citizens but the "craving for an all-embracing idea which would explain everything in the world and bring about universal harmony at one go”.[16] </span><span style="background-color: white;">Every nation</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, no matter how bloody and cruel its beginnings, </span><span style="background-color: white;">sees its origins in a glorious era of heroes who vanquished less worthy foes. One's own race, people, country, or political system is felt to be superior to the adversary's, blessed by a less worthy god. The nuclear age has spawned a new kind of myth. This is best exemplified by the United States' strategic defense initiative. This celestial fantasy offers protection from attack by nuclear warheads, faith here being invested not in a god but in an anti-nuclear technology of lasers, satellites, mirrors, and so on in the heavens.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Individual Group Linkages and Lessons in Childhood: To find out the source of hatred or antagonism we need to understand the complex relationship between the psychology of the individual, and the national group.[17] We can start by examining how enmity develops in childhood. In the first year of life a child begins to have a sense of self,[18] which includes the ability to distinguish between familiar people with whom he or she feels comfortable and those who are strangers or are felt to be alien. The small child's ability to distinguish between friends and strangers[19] is accompanied by thought patterns that tend to divide people and things into good and bad, safe and unsafe. It is out of such primitive thinking that the structures of enmity later grow. In the second year the child learns that ill-will directed towards those upon whom he is dependent is dangerous to his own well-being. He develops, therefore, mechanisms such as displacement and externalization which allow him to disown such negative impulses. Grandparents and parents may pass on to their children stories of the designated enemy groups' evil actions so that chosen displacements persist from one generation to another. </span><span style="background-color: white;">From the drawings and comments of children in</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Germany, </span><span style="background-color: white;">theU</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="background-color: white;">S</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">tates, Central America, and Samoa, Hesse showed that by age five a child understands the idea of an enemy, which he or she will depict as whatever in the culture seems most immediately fearful or threatening-a monster, wild animal, or bad man.[20] By age eight a child understands that "the idea of the enemy" has to do with an unfriendly relationship. But this idea does not usually become cast in political terms until age ten to twelve. It is noteworthy that Hesse's research children, including the older ones, tend not to see their own country as bad or responsible for bad actions. The small child's sense of helplessness is accompanied by a feeling of vulnerability and awareness of dependence on others. The formation of relationships or alliances with other individuals and groups, beginning with family members and extending to the neighborhood, classroom, school playground, and teenage youth group, is an important strategy for gaining a sense of power. Such </span><span style="background-color: white;">alliances are the prototype for later political relationships. All of these primitive, or child-like, mechanisms provide fertile soil for political leaders in real life interethnic or international conflicts. Nationalistic slogans and media manipulation focus the child's mind</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (or the child-mind of the adult) </span><span style="background-color: white;">on the peoples or system he is supposed to hate or fear</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jews, Arabs, capitalists, or communists). In the United States </span><span style="background-color: white;">patriotic recruitment is accompanied by commercial profiteering-for example, robotic war toys designed to kill communists.[</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">21] The extraordinary dimensions of the nuclear threat have also spawned examples of apocalyptic thinking, in which the world is divided into forces of good and evil, and the belief that, in the event of a nuclear holocaust, the good would be saved and the evil would perish. In such thinking the primitive, polarizing tendencies of the child's mind are all too evident. Creating a Safer World: Hesse's finding that even older children do not perceive their own country's responsibility for states of enmity is in accord with those of psychologists and social scientists - that there is no self-awareness or self-responsibility at the political level which corresponds to the awareness of personal responsibility with which we are familiar in a clinical setting." In political life, the assignment of blame, disclaiming of responsibility, and the denial of one's own nation's contribution to tensions and enmity are the norm.[23] The first task, therefore, is to apply the insights of the behavioral sciences to create a new expectation of political self-responsibility. Nuclear weapons have connected all the peoples of the earth. Not only the nuclear superpowers but also all peoples are now interdependent and mutually vulnerable. Nations may have conflicting values but they cannot afford to have enemies. Education in elementary and secondary schools that reflects this new reality should be our highest priority. Instead of constant blaming of the other side, we need to give new attention to the adversary's culture and history, to his real intentions as well as his hopes, dreams, and values. </span><span style="background-color: white;">To understand is not to forgive, but awareness and knowledge could lead to a more realistic appreciation of who has contributed what to the problems and tensions that exist in the world.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Young people should be taught in their homes and schools how to identify and resist ideological propaganda. </span><span style="background-color: white;">In the nuclear age we need to redefine hackneyed ideas such as national security or the national interest. just as we can no longer afford enemies</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="background-color: white;">there is no longer such a notion as national security. The security of each depends on the other, and the communication of this reality must become a major focus of our educational system.</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Scenario 2: Manipulation </span>

The border is a manifestation of identity – a literal construction to separate the state from the foreign evil which ends in genocide and violence
Campbell, 2005<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Campbell, American Quarterly, “The Biopolitics of Security: Oil, Empire, and the Sports Utility Vehicle” Volume 57, Number 3, September, pp. 943-972)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As an imagined community, </span><span class="Underline">the state can be seen as the effect of formalized practices</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and ritualized acts </span><span class="Underline">that operate in its name</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or in the service of its ideals. </span><span class="Underline">This understanding</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which is enabled by shifting our theoretical commitments from a belief in pregiven subjects to a concern with the problematic of subjectivity, </span><span class="Underline">renders foreign policy as a boundary-producing political performance in which the spatial domains of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> inside/outside, self/other, and </span><span class="Underline">domestic/ foreign are constituted through the writing of threats as externalized dangers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The narratives of </span><span class="Underline">primary and stable identities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that continue to govern much of the social sciences obscure such an understanding. In international relations these concepts of identity </span><span class="Underline">limit analysis to a concern with the domestic influences on foreign policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; this perspective allows for a consideration of the influence of the internal forces on state identity, but it assumes that the external is a fixed reality that presents itself to the pregiven state and its agents. In contrast, </span><span class="Underline">by assuming</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span class="Underline">the identity of the state is performatively constituted</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, we can argue that </span><span class="Underline">there are no foundations of state identity that exist prior to the problematic of identity/difference</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that situates the state within the framework of inside/outside and self/other. </span><span class="Underline">Identity is constituted in relation to difference</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and difference is constituted in relation to identity, </span><span class="Underline">which means that the “state,” the “international system,” and the “dangers” to each are coeval in their construction</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Over time, of course, ambiguity is disciplined, contingency is fixed, and dominant meanings are established. In the history of </span><span class="Underline">U.S. foreign policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— </span><span class="Underline">regardless of the radically different contexts in which it has operated</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—the </span><span class="Underline">formalized practices</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and ritualized acts </span><span class="Underline">of security discourse</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have </span><span class="Underline">worked to produce a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> conception of the United States in which freedom, liberty, law, democracy, individualism, faith, order, prosperity, and civilization are claimed to exist because of the constant struggle with and often violent suppression of opponents said to embody tyranny, oppression, anarchy, totalitarianism, collectivism, atheism, and barbarism. This record demonstrates that the boundary-producing political performance of foreign policy does more than inscribe a geopolitical marker on a map. This construction of social space also involves an axiological dimension in which the delineation of an inside from an outside gives rise to a </span><span class="Underline">moral hierarchy that renders the domestic superior and the foreign inferior</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Foreign policy thus incorporates an ethical power of segregation in its performance of identity/difference. </span><span class="Underline">While this produces a geography of “foreign</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (even “</span><span class="Underline">evil</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”) others in conventional terms, </span><span class="Underline">it also requires a disciplining of “domestic” elements on the inside that challenge this state identity. This is achieved through exclusionary practices in which resistant elements to a secure identity on the “inside” are linked through a discourse of “danger” with threats identified and located on the “outside</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” Though global in scope, these effects are national in their legitimation.12 The ONDCP drugs and terror campaign was an overt example of this sort of exclusionary practice. However, the boundary-producing political performances of foreign policy operate within a global context wherein relations of sovereignty are changing. Although Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri have overplayed the transition from modern sovereignty to imperial sovereignty in Empire, there is little doubt that new relations of power and identity are present. According to Hardt and Negri, in our current condition, Empire establishes no territorial center of power and does not rely on fixed boundaries or barriers. It is a decentered and deterritorializing apparatus of rule that progressively incorporates the entire global realm within its open, expanding frontiers. Empire manages hybrid identities, flexible hierarchies, and plural exchanges through modulating networks of command. The distinct national colors of the imperialist map of the world have merged and blended in the imperial global rainbow.13 As shall be argued here, the sense of fading national colors is being resisted by the reassertion of national identity boundaries through foreign policy’s writing of danger in a range of cultural sites. Nonetheless, this takes place within the context of flow, flexibility, and reterritorialization summarized by Hardt and Negri. Moreover, these transformations are part and parcel of change in the relations of production. As Hardt and Negri declare: “In the postmodernization of the global economy, the creation of wealth tends ever more toward what we will call biopolitical production, the production of social life itself, in which the economic, the political, and the cultural increasingly overlap and invest one another.”14 While the implied periodization of the term postmodernization renders it problematic, the notion of biopolitics, with its connecting and penetrative networks across and through all domains of life, opens up new possibilities for conceptualizing the complex relationships that embrace oil, security, U.S. policy, and the SUV. In Todd Gitlin’s words, “the SUV is the place where foreign policy meets the road.”15 It is also the place where the road affects foreign policy. Biopolitics is a key concept in understanding how those meetings take place. Michel Foucault argues that </span><span class="Underline">biopolitics arrives with the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> historical </span><span class="Underline">transformation in waging war from the defense of the sovereign to securing the existence of a population</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In Foucault’s argument, this historical shift means that decisions to fight are made in terms of collective survival, and killing is justified by the necessity of preserving life.16 It is this centering of the life of the population rather than the safety of the sovereign or the security of territory that is the hallmark of biopolitical power that distinguishes it from sovereign power. Giorgio Agamben has extended the notion through the concept of the administration of life and argues that </span><span class="Underline">the defense of life often takes place in a zone of indistinction between violence and the law such that sovereignty can be violated in the name of life</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.17 Indeed, </span><span class="Underline">the biopolitical privileging of life has provided the rationale for some of the worst cases of mass death, with genocide deemed “understandable” as one group’s life is violently secured through the demise of another group</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.18 </span>

It is at this point that genocide can be rationalized – the construction of the global other threatens entire populations, threatening life itself
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span>Duffield<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor at the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Lancaster, “Carry on Killing: Global Governance, Humanitarianism and Terror,” Danish Institute for International Studies, </span>2004<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Publications/WP2004/duffield_carry_on_killing.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bio-politics, however, contains an intrinsic and fateful duality. As well as fostering and promoting life it also has the power to “…//disallow// it to the point of death” (Ibid: 138 orig. emph.). In making this bio-political distinction, racism plays a formative role (Foucault 2003; Stoler 1995). This not only includes its nineteenth and early twentieth century biological forms, it also involves its contemporary cultural, value and civilisational re-inscriptions (Duffield 1984). Race and its modern codings underpin the division between valid and invalid life and legitimates the measures deemed necessary to secure the former against the later. In this sense, </span><span class="underline0">biopolitics is intrinsically connected with the security of populations, including global ones</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This duality moreover underlies the paradox of bio-politics: </span><span class="underline0">as states have assumed responsibility for maintaining and developing life, wars have become increasingly more encompassing, devastating and genocidal for the populations concerned.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The awesome power to unleash limitless death presents itself as a cynical counterpart, …of a power that exerts a positive influence on life, that endeavours to administer, optimize, and multiply it, subjecting it to all precise controls and comprehensive regulations. </span><span class="underline0">Wars are no longer waged in the name of a sovereign who must be defended; they are waged on behalf of the existence of everyone</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; entire populations are mobilised for the purpose of wholesale slaughter in the name of life necessity: massacres have become vital (Ibid: 136). As the managers of species-life, since the end of the nineteenth century states have been able to wage total wars that have pitched entire populations against each other in cataclysmic struggles to the death. </span><span class="underline0">What is at stake in modern war is the existence of society itself. Genocide consequently emerges as a strategy “…because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (Ibid: 137). Although the ending of the Cold War raised hopes of a ‘peace dividend’, the diagrammatic form of biopower was to be re-inscribed in the ‘new wars’ of the 1990s and confirmed with the declaration of war on terrorism. This re-inscription has taken in its stride the shift in the locus of threat from the Soviet Union, one of the world’s largest and most centralized war economies, to its very opposite, that is, the new security cartography of failed states, shadow economies and terrorist networks. However, as the //Guardian// columnist quoted above has grasped, </span><span class="underline0">despite this radical re-ordering the bio-political principle of state power has remained the same: in order to carry on living one has to carry on killing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ibid). As well as departing from a realist conception of power, the idea of global governance as a design of bio-power also breaks with the conventional view of what global governance is. That is, </span><span class="underline0">as an essentially benign undertaking involving state and non-state actors in a collective pursuit of global security, an open and inclusive economic system, effective legal and political institutions, global welfare and development, and a shared commitment to conflict resolution</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Biscop 2004). From this perspective, </span><span class="underline0">security threats are usually seen as emerging independently of global governance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and, indeed, despite its best intentions. </span><span class="underline0">It becomes an ethico-political response to pre-existing or externally motivated threats. Global governance as a design of bio-power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span><span class="underline0">rather than responding ‘out of the blue’ to external threats, directly fabricates its own security environment. In distinguishing between valid and invalid global life, it creates its own ‘other’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – with all its specific deviancies, singular threats and instances of maldevelopment – </span><span class="underline0">to which it then responds and tries to change. Consequently, it also shapes the terrain over which the bio-political logic of living through killing must operate. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is in relation to this constitutive function of global governance that the place of sovereignty within it can now be examined. </span>


The epistemic evaluation of governmental rationality in politics is a necessary precondition to action on the border
David Campbell, professor of international politics at the university of Newcastle, Writing Security, 1998, pg. 202

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, Foucault argues that from the eighteenth century onward, </span><span class="Underline">security becomes the central dynamic in governmental ratio­nality, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">so that (as discussed in chapter 6) we live today, not in a narrowly defined and overtly repressive disciplinary society, but in a “society of security,” in which</span><span class="Underline"> practices of national security </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and practices of so­cial security</span><span class="Underline"> structure </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">intensive and extensive</span><span class="Underline"> power relations, and constitute the ethical boundaries and territorial borders of inside/outside, normal/pathological, civilized/barbaric</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and so on23 The theory of police and the </span><span class="Underline">shift</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from a sovereign’s war </span><span class="Underline">to a popula­tion’s war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thus </span><span class="Underline">not only changed the nature of “man” and war, it constituted the identity of “man” in the idea of the population, and articulated the dangers that might pose a threat to security. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ma­jor implication of this argument is that the state is understood as hav­ing no essence, no ontological status that exists prior to and is served by either police or war. Instead</span><span class="Underline">, “the state” is “the mobile effect of a multiple regime of governmentality,” of which the practices of police, war, and foreign policy/Foreign Policy are all a part</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.34 </span><span class="Underline">Rethinking security and government in these terms is one of the </span>//preconditions//<span class="Underline"> necessary to suggest some </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">of</span><span class="Underline"> the political implications </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">of this study. Specifically, it has been the purpose of this book to argue that we can interpret the cold war as an important moment in the production and reproduction of American identity in ways consonant with the logic of a “society of security” </span><span class="Underline">To this end, the analysis of the texts of Foreign Policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in chapter 1, the consideration of Eisen­hower’s security policies in chapter 6, </span><span class="Underline">and the examination of the in­terpretation of danger</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> surrounding “the war on drugs” in chapter 7, demonstrated that even when these issues are represented in terms of national security and territorial boundaries, and</span><span class="Underline"> even when these issues are written in the depoliticizing mode of policy discourse, they all constitute “the ensemble of the population” in terms of social se­curity and ethical borders. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Likewise, Foucault’s argument underpins the fact that these developments are not peculiar to the post—World War II period.</span>

We should refuse the distinctions that sovereign power creates, as it leads to a relationship of violence.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jenny </span>Edkins<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales Aberystwyth, </span>and<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Véronique </span>Pin-Fat,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Lecturer in International Relations in the Centre for International Politics at the University of Manchester, </span>2005<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 34, No. 1, p. 11-14</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Against Connolly’s reading, we suggest that Agamben’s contribution provides an insight into ways in which sovereign power can be challenged and indeed its ‘logic’ or grammar refused. As we have pointed out, </span><span class="Underline">the possibility of resistance is in general not one which relies on an ‘escape’ or ‘emancipation’ from power relations. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, we have argued that </span><span class="Underline">such an escape leads us into the camps, which are marked by such an absence of power relations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. What we will call </span><span class="Underline">a challenge to or contestation of sovereign power, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">on the contrary, </span><span class="Underline">entails a displacement of sovereign power and a return to properly political power relations: a life of power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A challenge to sovereign power’s creation of zones of indistinction (the concentration camp being the paradigmatic example) cannot consist of a call for a reinstatement of classical politics, a reinstatement of the distinction between zoe and bios. Firstly, this is not a possibility because </span><span class="Underline">the very distinction itself, and the lines that it draws, is ‘the fundamental activity of sovereign power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">’.51 Secondly, the classical distinction requires that bare life can only be included through an exclusion in the form of an exception. </span><span class="Underline">There cannot be a return to a politics that maintains the distinction between zoe- and bios, or, in Agamben’s words: There is no return from the camps to classical politics. In the camps, city and house became indistinguishable, and the possibility of differentiating between our biological body and our political body – between what is incommunicable and mute and what is communicable and sayable – was taken from us forever.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">52 Either way, whether through an emancipatory ideal or through a reinstatement of classical politics, we would all remain homines sacri or bare life. However, challenge may be possible not through emancipation or nostalgic return, but, as we will argue, through either of two other strategies: first, through a refusal to draw lines and second, through the assumption of bare life. We have argued that </span><span class="Underline">Agamben’s work demonstrates that sovereign power is no longer a form of power relation in Foucauldian terms but a relationship of violence (as his discussion of the camp shows)</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Since this is the case, however paradoxical it may seem, </span><span class="Underline">challenges to sovereign power take place when there is a demand for a return to properly political power relations, and take the form of such a demand.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Agamben’s injunction is that we must find ‘a completely new politics – that is, a politics no longer founded on the exception of bare life’.53 If the zone of indistinction has extended beyond the camp to embrace much of the rest of the world, then what we have is an extension of bare life, and its lack of relationalities of power: in other words, an impossibility of politics. </span><span class="Underline">The absence of a power relation is not desirable because there is then no possibility of resistance. We have nothing but a form of servitude or slavery. So, rephrasing it in Foucauldian terms, Agamben’s argument is that we have moved from a relation of power to a relationship of violence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Let us remind ourselves how Foucault describes such a relationship and its contrast with a power relation: </span><span class="Underline">A relationship of violence acts upon a body or upon things; it forces, it bends, it breaks, it destroys, or it closes off all possibilities. Its opposite pole can only be passivity, and if it comes up against any resistance it has no other option but to try to break it down. A power relationship,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the other hand, can only be articulated </span><span class="Underline">on the basis of two elements that are indispensable if it is really to be a power relationship: that the ‘other’ (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the one over whom power is exercised) </span><span class="Underline">is recognised and maintained to the very end as a subject who acts; and that, faced with a relationship of power, a whole field of responses, reactions, results, and possible inventions may open up</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.54 In this context it then makes sense when Agamben argues that the question we should be addressing is not Is there any escape from power relations? but, on the contrary, Is today a life of power available? Such a life of power would be a life of potentialities and possibilities, a life in the field of power relations, resistance, and freedom: in other words, a political life. </span><span class="Underline">It is important to make it clear that what we are talking about is not a challenge to a particular sovereign order, but to sovereignty, or sovereign power, in general, as a form of order that entails specific forms of life. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">We do not see sovereignty as ‘an ontological condition of the possibility of order as such’, as Sergei Prozorov argues.55 </span><span class="Underline">In our view it is not inconceivable that there might be forms of social and political organisation which would not entail a life under the sway of sovereign power and would still represent a form of order, though a very different one. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">They may well seem ‘wholly unintelligible’, ‘entirely meaningless,’ ‘outright inconceivable’ or even ‘quaintly paradoxical’ when viewed from the framework of sovereign power.56 We are indeed issuing a call ‘to dispense with the very principle of order’57 when it concerns an order founded on the sovereign ban. We do not deny that the sovereign exception is constitutive of such an order;58 we do deny that sovereign power constitutes the only possible form of political life, and indeed that it constitutes a political life at all. </span><span class="Underline">Since sovereign power relies on two things – first, the drawing of lines between forms of life, and, second, the production thereby of a generalised bare life – there are two ways the demand for a return to politics can be articulated: the refusal of sovereign distinctions and the assumption of bare life.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We elaborate what we mean by this in the remainder of this article. </span>

The only way to contest sovereign power is to completely eliminate lines of distinction drawn between people. We cannot simply change where the lines are drawn.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jenny </span>Edkins<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales Aberystwyth, </span>and <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Véronique </span>Pin-Fat,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Lecturer in International Relations in the Centre for International Politics at the University of Manchester, </span>2005,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 34, No. 1, p. 11-14</span>

<span class="Underline">One potential form of challenge to sovereign power consists of a refusal to draw any lines between zoe and bios, inside and outside</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.59 As we have shown, </span><span class="Underline">sovereign power does not involve a power relation in Foucauldian terms. It is more appropriately considered to have become a form of governance or technique of administration through relationships of violence that reduce political subjects to mere bare or naked life.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In asking for a refusal to draw lines as a possibility of challenge, then, </span><span class="Underline">we are not asking for the elimination of power relations and consequently, we are not asking for the erasure of the possibility of a mode of political being that is empowered and empowering, is free and that speaks: quite the opposite. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Following Agamben, </span><span class="Underline">we are suggesting that it is only through a refusal to draw any lines at all between forms of life (and indeed, nothing less will do) that sovereign power as a form of violence can be contested and a properly political power relation (a life of power as potenza) reinstated.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We could call this challenging the logic of sovereign power through refusal. Our argument is that we can evade sovereign power and reinstate a form of power relation by contesting sovereign power’s assumption of the right to draw lines, that is, by contesting the sovereign ban. Any other challenge always inevitably remains within this relationship of violence. To move outside it (and return to a power relation) we need not only to contest its right to draw lines in particular places, but also to resist the call to draw any lines of the sort sovereign power demands. </span><span class="Underline">The grammar of sovereign power cannot be resisted by challenging or fighting over where the lines are drawn</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Whilst, of course, this is a strategy that can be deployed, </span><span class="Underline">it is not a challenge to sovereign power per se as it still tacitly or even explicitly accepts that lines must be drawn somewhere</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (and preferably more inclusively). </span><span class="Underline">Although such strategies contest the violence of sovereign power’s drawing of a particular line, they risk replicating such violence in demanding the line be drawn differently. This is because such forms of challenge fail to refuse sovereign power’s line-drawing ‘ethos’, an ethos which, as Agamben points out, renders us all now homines sacri or bare life. </span>

=Contention 2 – Solvency= 



The problem is the time spent processing; effective transportation stops the needless death and relieves the economic strain on the border
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel A. </span>Scharf <span style="font-size: 8pt;">B.A., Lafayette College (2001); J.D. candidate, Case Western Reserve University School of Law (May 2006). “FOR HUMANE BORDERS: TWO DECADES OF DEATH AND ILLEGAL ACTIVITY IN THE SONORAN DESERT” </span>2006 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">1/4/2006 [[http://www.case.edu/orgs/jil/vol.38.1/D%20Scharf.pdf]]</span>

It is unlikely that any policy will stop people from trying to cross the Border<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Many commentators have </span>expressed ideas for eliminating the pull factors that encourage people to cross the Border illegally.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 177 </span>Regardless of what the U.S. does internally<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span>because of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>great economic disparity between the U.S.and<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>countries immediately south of itand the strong ties many of those who illegally cross the Border have with the U.S., it is unlikely that even the most tightly guarded Border will deter some of the migrants<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from trying to make it safely across. 178 </span>These pull factors, when combined with other countries’ lack of support for the U.S.’s desire to control its Border<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 179 </span>have created a situation where the U.S. must take immediate action along its Border.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> While there appears to be an unlimited number of people who seek to enter the U.S. illegally, there is a finite number of Border Patrol Agents and resources. </span>Due to the volume of people who illegally cross the Border, Agents spend a great deal of their time processing apprehended subjects instead of monitoring the Border.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 180 Additionally, </span>Border communities are paying a price for the risk migrants are taking in the Sonoran Desert.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 181 Because </span>many of the migrants that end up in Border community hospitals and morgues were traveling to the interior of the U.S.,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 182 </span>allowing for safe passage through these communities would relieve the economic strain illegal immigration is placing on already cash-strapped U.S. Border towns.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 183 Although it may seem counterintuitive, </span>this solution would also help accomplish the U.S. goal of reducing the number of illegal immigrants who remain in the U.S. permanently.By allowing safe passage through official ports-of-entry, migrants will not fear returning to their native land after working in the U.S.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Because </span>the migrant knows that he or she will be able to freely enter and exit the U.S. at any time, seasonal workers could come to the U.S. when work is abundant, and leave when the season is over.

<span class="Underline">Crossborder traveling in projected to increase drastically – upgrading our Ports-of-Entry and connecting roads is critical to improve quality of life on the border</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FHWA 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Federal Highway Administration, California-Baja California Border Master Plan, [[http://www.borderplanning.fhwa.dot.gov/documents/baja_execSumm.pdf]]) MattG</span>

<span class="Underline">Crossborder travel at</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the six land </span><span class="Underline">ports of entry</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (POEs) in the California-Baja California region </span><span class="Underline">has grown </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> significantly over the years.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The San Diego County-Tijuana/Tecate region is home to the San YsidroPuerta México, the Otay Mesa-Mesa de Otay, and the Tecate-Tecate POEs while the Imperial CountyMexicali region hosts the Calexico-Mexicali, Calexico East-Mexicali II, and Andrade-Los Algodones </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> POEs. </span><span class="Underline">Travel demand is expected to increase at all POEs in the region between 2005 and 2030.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Total </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> population in the California-Baja California study area was estimated at more than six million in 2005 and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is projected to grow to almost 9.5 million by 2030.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline">Growth in population and economic activity will </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> increase crossborder travel demand and continue to add pressure to the POE facilities and connecting </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> roads. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> Given the current and projected travel demand at the existing POEs, improving the capacity and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> operations of the current infrastructure is critical to decrease traffic congestion and delays, facilitate </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> international trade, and improve the quality of life for residents in the border region. Federal</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, state, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> regional, and local </span><span class="Underline">agencies responsible for planning and implementation of POEs and related </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> transportation facilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the California-Baja California region </span><span class="Underline">agree that a master planning process is </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> needed to evaluate and integrate POE and transportation infrastructure development on a coordinated </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="Underline"> basis.</span>


<span class="Underline">The 1ac creates an epistemic confrontation with the other that causes ideological shift in the United States federal government</span>
Rosenberg 2006<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Judith Rosenberg, Ph.D. Philosophy University of Texas at Austin, 2006 Supervisor: Linda Ferreira-Buckley “The Rhetoric of Globalization: Can the Maquiladora Worker Speak?” University of Texas at Austin [[http://repositories.lib.utexas.edu/bitstream/handle/2152/2632/rosenbergj54173.pdf?sequence=2]] Herm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But watch out! I</span><span class="Underline">f we, author and audience, enter into dialog with the workers with commitment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span class="Underline">not just to do charity work i</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">n the colonias</span><span class="Underline"> or leftist tourism in the industrial parks—like it or not, we will have to make with the workers relationships of equality and reorganize ourselves by democratic principles that match theirs. We will encounter the epistemological or cognitive problem.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> That</span><span class="Underline"> can shake up our identities, confuse us, and make us suffer because we thought they live in a more authoritarian society and that we carry the torch of democracy, or are more worldly, more strategically placed and smarter,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or</span><span class="Underline"> possess a more informed analysis or ideology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We </span><span class="Underline">generally don’t like to tamper with our identities. Once we enter </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the relationship, </span><span class="Underline">there’s no going back</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Listen to the </span><span class="Underline">reflections of a 25-year-old law student</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Albuquerque, Brooke Nowack-Neeley, </span><span class="Underline">who grew up in El Paso and traveled with Austin Tan Cerca on a solidarity delegation to visit the workers in Juarez in October 2004.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I asked her how her social justice consciousness got born and she answered by describing her experience with the Juárez shantytowns or colonias, as she has known them for 15 years. </span><span class="Underline">“My grandfather was a Methodist minister </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(he was also a chaplain during the Korean War). </span><span class="Underline">He knew of my situation growing up[physically and emotionally violent, alcoholic stepfather] and he himself didn't have the money to relieve the situation. But he literally gave much more to me than money could give</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">When I was 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> years old,</span><span class="Underline"> he and his wife drove to El Paso </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(where I lived) from Augusta, GA. </span><span class="Underline">He was about 65 at the time. He took me across the border into Juarez and showed me the Juarez beyond the Mercado that I had not seen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He took me through the Colonias in Anapra, which was a Juárez city landfill before the colonias were established. </span><span class="Underline">It had an unspeakable effect on me and changed me greatly whether I knew it or not, whether I wanted it or not. It helped me to keep things in perspective; I think that is what my grandfather wanted. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Though</span><span class="Underline"> I have found myself lost in my life at times (in my own little bubble), I cannot escape the realities of injustice toward people throughout the world and in our own country.Because of that experience</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [13 years ago], </span><span class="Underline">when faced [today] with a biography of The Rolling Stones or Che Guevara, I have to choose Che. When faced with the choice between Vogue and Z Magazine, I have to choose Z.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So for my lack of fashion sense, I have my grandfather to thank!</span><span class="Underline"> I find myself in this strange parallel life where I am trying to be a "normal American" while still struggling to understand what it means to be an American in the dynamics of the role America plays in the injustices of the world. This second reflection is deemed antithetical to "normal America" and even "dangerous" to America's livelihood. When I sit down and really think about it all, I want nothing more than to open my eyes and say it's all just a nightmare and it's not true. But the sad reality remains and I am left with the images, from when I was a child, of other children confined to Anapra, juxtaposed with images of children [still] confined to Anapra, now that I am an adult.</span>

=Framing= 

Our static understanding of the border has shaped our mindset –the border is a militarized base of INS agents using high tech equipment to hunt down the Mexican Citizens by any means possible – resulting in racist policies targeting immigrants
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elvia R. </span>Arriola 2000 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(B.A., California State University, Los Angeles J.D., University of California, Berkeley M.A., New York University, Professor Arriola joined NIU Law in 2001 and teaches Constitutional Law, Gender, Sexuality and the Law, Civil Rights Litigation, Family Law and a research and writing seminar, Women, Law and the Global Economy. She is a Women's Studies Faculty Associate. “VOICES FROM THE BARBED WIRES OF DESPAIR: WOMEN IN THE MAQUILADORAS, LATINA CRITICAL LEGAL THEORY, AND GENDER AT THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">49 DePaul L. Rev. 729 1999-2000 ([[http://heinonline.org/|http://heinonline.org]])</span>

The highly feminized workforce of the //maquiladora////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">s </span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">88 </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">also </span>suggests that most of the border immigrants who attempt to cross are male<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>illustrating the few opportunities for them to find livable wages in a Mexican border town.They contemplate and sometimes repeatedly try to cross into the United States at a borderthat has become increasingly hostile to the Mexican citizen<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Encouraged by a conservative presidency, </span>Congress made it possible in the 1980s to expand border activities through a "beefed up" INSthatnow routinely uses high-tech night-vision equipment, helicopters, expanded concrete and steel barriers, and hundreds more Border Patrol agents<span style="font-size: 8pt;">89 with the backup of United States military forces. In 1996 alone, </span>over 400 members of the United States Army, Marine Corps, and the California National Guard were deployed as part of a Joint Task force aimed at policing the U.S.-Mexicoborder on an anti-drug trafficking campaign<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.90 </span>The high number of deaths caused by border crossings, as well as a range of other practices engaged in by the INS, have begun to invite the criticism of international watches for human rights abuses in Mexico and around the world<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.91 In 1996, Mexican lawmakers demanded that their president "make public a detailed list of 'human rights viola-tions' committed against Mexicans in the past five years. ' 92 The demand described </span>not only the existence of a "low-intensity-war against Mexican citizens in the United States," but also an "anti-immigrant climate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ' 93 </span>Other charges included the endorsement of activities or anti-immigrant laws 94 by California Governor Pete Wilson that were labeled "racist."<span style="font-size: 8pt;">95</span>

<span class="Underline">This mindset has spread globally – US policy is meant to detain and control all immigration through calculated levels of risk based solely on race and protection of the sovereign. The product of this ideology is the securitization of ports-of-entry </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Valsamis </span>Mitsilegas 2012<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of European Criminal Law and Director of the Criminal Justice Centre at Queen Mary University of London) Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies Vol. 19 #1 (Winter 2012) “Immigration Control in an Era of Globalization: Deflecting Foreigners, Weakening Citizens, Strengthening the State” Project Muse Herm </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The</span><span class="Underline"> emphasis of U.S. law on preventative immigration control via </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the use o</span><span class="Underline">f biometric identification for third-country nationals is evident in the US-VISIT program</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a key component of the new U.S. system of extraterritorial immigration control aimed at “border security.” Entitled “The U.S. Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology (USVISIT) Program,” it </span><span class="Underline">has been designed to use biometric and biographic information to control and monitor the preentry, entry, status and exit of foreign visitors</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and is deemed to be “intended </span><span class="Underline">to enhance the security of U.S. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">citizens and visitors, facilitate legitimate travel and trade, ensure the integrity of the U.S. immigration system, </span><span class="Underline">and protect the privacy of visitors to the United States.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”46 As the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) noted, it is “part of a continuum of security measures that begins overseas, when a person applies for a visa to travel to the United States, and continues on through entry and exit at U.S. air and seaports and, eventually, at land border crossings” (emphasis added).47 The features of US-VISIT were designed to include reliance on biometrics, integration of arrival and departure data on foreign nationals (including commercial carrier passenger manifests), and integration with other law enforcement and security systems.48 </span><span class="Underline">The system initially applied to select nationalities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="Underline">but</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, notwithstanding privacy concerns,49</span><span class="Underline"> has now been rolled out for all foreign visitors.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">50 In this context, it </span><span class="Underline">has been noted that</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the</span><span class="Underline"> US VISIT </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Program</span><span class="Underline"> now applies to all foreign bodies, not merely those that have been identified as potentially “risky” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">or even “guilty” . . . is all the more significant.</span><span class="Underline"> In the new border protection practices, each visitor to the US features as a foreign body tagged with an individual calculated level of risk</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.51 These concerns are intensified in the light of the development of a new US-VISIT:</span><span class="Underline"> capability known as “Unique Identity,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which is</span><span class="Underline"> to establish a single identity for all individuals who interact with any immigration and border management organisation by capturing the individual’s biometrics, including 10 fingerprints and a digital image</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at the earliest possible interaction (emphasis added).52</span><span class="Underline"> The ambition of U.S. law and policy has been to extend the net of securitized immigration control globally.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Not only has U.S. law required biometrics from third-country nationals wishing to enter the United States, but</span><span class="Underline"> it has moved</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> further</span><span class="Underline"> to require third states to introduce biometric identity documents to their citizens if they wished to receive preferential treatment from the United States as part of the U.S. Visa Waiver Program.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Under the latter, “the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may waive the ‘B’ nonimmigrant visa requirement for aliens traveling from certain countries as temporary visitors for business or pleasure.”53 The biometrics requirement to the existing Visa Waiver Program introduced by the Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry Reform Act of 200254 mandated that, by October 26, 2004, the government of each Visa Waiver Program country needed to certify that it has established a program to issue to its nationals machine-readable passports that are tamper-resistant and incorporate a biometric identifier. The Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 200455 “added the requirement that by October 26, 2006, </span><span class="Underline">as a condition of being in the VWP</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Visa Waiver Program], </span><span class="Underline">each country must certify that it is developing a program to issue tamper-resistant, machine-readable visa documents that incorporate biometric identifiers which are verifiable at the country’s port of entry.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”56</span>


The Border reflects something to be forgotten, something that allows US citizens to go out and have a weekend getaway, cheap medicine and an easy way to turn a profit, but from the forgotten side of the border, where life is a constant battle to survive – the border is hope and it’s closed down by racist and gendered US policies. Our act is the infinite obligation that even policymakers are held to – an obligation to stop the racism and human rights violation that are currently being selectively ignored, only that interrogation can solve
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elvia R. </span>Arriola 2000 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(B.A., California State University, Los Angeles J.D., University of California, Berkeley M.A., New York University, Professor Arriola joined NIU Law in 2001 and teaches Constitutional Law, Gender, Sexuality and the Law, Civil Rights Litigation, Family Law and a research and writing seminar, Women, Law and the Global Economy. She is a Women's Studies Faculty Associate. “VOICES FROM THE BARBED WIRES OF DESPAIR: WOMEN IN THE MAQUILADORAS, LATINA CRITICAL LEGAL THEORY, AND GENDER AT THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">49 DePaul L. Rev. 729 1999-2000 ([[http://heinonline.org/|http://heinonline.org]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have previously argued that </span>narratives and stories,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even those gleaned from popular culture, </span>can humanize the law, that is, flesh out its impact on people's lives.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 1 </span>In the context of exploring the breadth of the social injustices at the U.S.-Mexico border, which teems with opportunities for a betterlife as well as<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for </span>the high risks of death at the hands of United States agents, storytelling is crucial.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">102 Arguably, taking on the subject of the border as a whole by deconstructing the interrelationship between routine border patrol enforcement, which appears mostly to impact male migrants, and the transnational relocation of American companies who will mostly employ Latinas, is not possible. It will either be too much or too little in my effort to grasp fully the interrelationships between life, labor, and law on both sides of the border. In fact, </span>taking on such a project feels like a transgressive act, one that violates the intellectual or political borders discouraging me from centralizing the experiences of Mexican citizens while I presume to analyze the impact of American law and policy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.103 But </span>for a critical legal theorist, this is a worthy transgressive act<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Undoubtedly, </span>to open the door to the study of the border is to invite an overwhelming sense of defeatism<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>This is the daunting task of deconstructing all of what is embedded in the casual mention of "life on the border."To residents of the Southwest, the short phrase means so much<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, although its interpretation will obviously vary depending upon the person's own identity. </span>Among the dominant classes, for<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> example, including Anglo-whites and assimilated Mexican-Americans, or other non-Mexicans, </span>the reference evokes images of the opportunities for cheap imported products and a high return on the American dollar for resorts, hotels, liquor, and weekend getaways.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At one time an American's crossing into Mexico also meant the quick abortion one could not obtain in the United States or even a quick divorce. 10 4 But, </span>a look at the border from a human rights or social justice standpoint triggers a more complex picture<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Many are able to ignore<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it </span>because a host of common stereotypes effectively dehumanize the identity of the border resident/Mexican citizen into faceless "illegals<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,"' 0 1 5 "</span>dumb Mexicans,"<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'1 6 "</span>wets<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" '10 7 </span>or "wetbacks," and "difficult to train Mexican maids."<span style="font-size: 8pt;">' 08 Yet, </span>underlying these stereotypes are the voices of persons whose human needs and despair intersect with socio-economic problems that are vast, originating as they do in seemingly uncontrollable phenomena such as the culture of poverty,<span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 9 </span>legitimized corporate profiteering through the use of cheap foreign labor, and environmental abuse.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The problems are compounded by limited or uncoordinated bi-governmental oversight of the corporate activities that give rise to the occupational and environmental hazards, either because of incomplete restraints or loopholes in immigration regulations,t" 0 trade agreements like NAFTA," 1 or lax enforcement of labor policies under Mexican law. 112 </span>The researcher of life on the border must also confront the prevailing attitude that whatever happens on the other side is of no concern to Americans, no matter how bad the problem<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.113 I would argue, however, that </span>some issues involving the U.S.-Mexico border cannot be ignored by the socially progressive theorist.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For some people, </span>life on the border is a constant skirting of the edges of death. Exposure to life-threatening working conditions or inhaled production chemicals are a problem.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">' 14 At the very least, th</span>is is an issue of human rights or environmental racism. As the workforce in these American owned maquiladoras is highly feminized, the issue of women's treatment should evoke the concerns of the feminist theorist<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>As the women in //maquiladoras// are mostly Mexicanas or from Central and South America, their treatment is a concern for the Latina critical legal theorist. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question then is what is the appropriate response and how does one analyze the social justice issues of "life on the U.S.-Mexico border," with a rational and manageable approach capable of producing recommendable solutions either in law or public policy?</span>
=2ac - Framework= 

**Our pedagogical approach should be preferred – their framework perpetuates the banking method of education and devalues educational discussion**
Laurie **Grobman 2001** (Penn State Berks-Lehigh Valley College ) MELUS, Vol. 26, No. 1, Varieties of the Ethnic Experience (Spring, 2001), pp. 221-240 “Toward a Multicultural Pedagogy: Literary and Nonliterary Traditions” : <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3185504]]</span> Herm

Despite the conflicts within multicultural criticism, scholars do agree that we need innovative teaching approaches because multi- ethnic literature requires new critical categories. Few scholars of multicultural literature believe traditional categories of understand- ing, evaluating, and/or teaching literature are sufficient. As Anne Stavney notes, pedagogical changes must recognize that previously excluded texts often violate traditional categories of discourse and evaluation (153). We must revise these categories and create new ones. Can we value, for example, simplicity rather than complexity of language and meaning? Must a text be dense and ambiguous to be canonized? John Maitino and David Peck call for new criteria that emphasize the uniqueness of American ethnic literature and the strength of its cultural and historical context, as they urge instructors to bring these contexts into the classroom. However, little information exists about exactly what those strategies should be and how to break out of our patterns of analysis and evaluation. Multicultural criticism has tended to focus on reading, understand- ing, and evaluating works within the same conventions used for canonical literature: genres such as historical narrative and autobi- ography, literary forms such as the Bildungsroman or Kuntslerro- man, and formalistic qualities such as innovation in language or narration and ambiguity of meaning. Multicultural scholars also tend to agree on classroom method- ology, arguing for the decentering of teacherly authority, even though, as Alberti reminds us, "the traditional classroom is, if nothing else, a centralized place, typically involving a single instructor, a single syllabus, and a single lecture" (xvii). Even as innovative teaching strategies like collaborative learning, inte- grated courses, and team teaching make their way into classrooms, traditional methods remain dominant. By decentering authority in multicultural classrooms, teachers underscore the notion that knowledge is socially constructed, that the canon, too, is a cultural and political construct, and that a particular curriculum or syllabus is highly political and personal. Drawing on Barbara Hermstein Smith's ideas about the contingency of literary value, Alberti argues that New Criticism's stringent set of formalist aestheticstandards as well as its failure to account for a literary work's political, historical, cultural, or social contexts led to canon-formation and traditional classroom methodology. Identified by Paulo Freire as the "banking concept" of education, this meth- odology-lecture-oriented, with students memorizing and regurgi- tating information-assumes that learning is "the accumulation of correct interpretations or of the correct grounds for arguing about interpretations, be those interpretations traditional or on the cutting edge of theory" (Savage 287).

=1ac - Alta= 

**<span class="Underline">The construction of the border results in an invisible genocide for those trying to cross</span>**
Elvia R. **Arriola (2000)**B.A., California State University, Los Angeles J.D., University of California, Berkeley M.A., New York University, Professor Arriola joined NIU Law in 2001 and teaches Constitutional Law, Gender, Sexuality and the Law, Civil Rights Litigation, Family Law and a research and writing seminar, Women, Law and the Global Economy. She is a Women's Studies Faculty Associate. “VOICES FROM THE BARBED WIRES OF DESPAIR: WOMEN IN THE MAQUILADORAS, LATINA CRITICAL LEGAL THEORY, AND GENDER AT THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER” 49 DePaul L. Rev. 729 1999-2000 (http://heinonline.org)



<span class="Underline">Today, there are huge risks for those who take the attitude that border surveillance is not a serious impediment to crossing into the United States to become an undocumented resident and/or worker. Many of those risks involve the threat of serious injury and death. Physically crossing al otro lado70 without the right papers forces migrant workers to try to avoid the Border Patrol by attempting to cross perilous mountain ranges and desert landswherethere is neither water, food, nor protection from the extreme weather conditions of the Southwestern United States.In 1996, a twenty-four year old peasant named Eliseo SantosCarmona from the state of Oaxaca was killed after he plunged off a 120-foot cliff while running from a United States borderagent in San Diego County.71 Modesta Lopez, a twenty-seven year old, from the state of Morelia, was found two weeks after the group she was travelling with in a rural section of California abandoned her because she had become too weak from going without food or water for three days.72 In January of 1997, eight people tried to cross into San Diego, hiked a mountain range at night, and froze to death doing so.73 Later in August, a group of six people (five men and one woman) were found in a ten-foot drainage ditch that had suddenly flooded during a flash storm.74 The factors that account for the life threatening characteristics of a border crossing are the aforementioned extreme weather conditions, the deaths by drowning in the Rio Grande area, and the increased militarized border of recent decades.75 The typical causes of death are hypothermia, dehydration, and drowning. 76 A typical news account may highlight the tragedies of human death that occur at the border. However, it is generally uncritical of a discourse that casually merges the illegalities of crossing the border to find work with smuggling drugs. The result is a stream of reporting that often does not separate the problem of Mexican "terrorist activity," from "10,000 attempted illegal crossings" that include people trying to reach "baby-sitting" or other "unskilled-labor jobs on the United States side" 77 to the hot story of how we are "losing America" to the "Mexican smugglers who are flooding America with [drugs] and undocumented immigrants. '78</span>

**<span class="Underline">Illegality and mobility are inextricably linked</span>**
**(2012)** (Valsamis **Mitsilegas,** Professor of European Criminal Law and Director of the Criminal Justice Centre at Queen Mary University of London) Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies Vol. 19 #1 (Winter 2012) “Immigration Control in an Era of Globalization: Deflecting Foreigners, Weakening Citizens, Strengthening the State” Project Muse Herm

Writing on the link between “illegal” immigration and globalization, Catherine Dauvergne has noted that [t]he impression that the problem of illegal migration is a global one, and the fact that those who seek to migrate outside the law have access to a geographically broader range of options than in earlier eras, contribute to the construction of an identity category of people named by the new noun “illegal.”1 This link between globalization and the perceived facilitation of unwanted movement it entails has justified the enhancement of immigration control in the West. Going a step further and looking beyond the debate over illegality in immigration law, this part will demonstrate how immigration control has been transformed by shaping state responses to counter perceived global security threats. Rather than focusing only on countering “illegal” movement(or, as Dauvergne puts it, “migration outside the law”), immigration control herefocuses more generally on countering movement which is considered “dangerous” or a security threat. This securitized approach, which links migration and movement to evils such as transnational organized crime and terrorism, has enabled the development of a global enforcement consensus. The translation of this consensusinto legislation has signified a considerable extension of state power at the expense of rights not only of foreigners but also of citizens: as will be demonstrated below, in particular in the case of counterterrorism, securitized immigration controls have shifted the focus from immigration control of third country nationals at the physical border to the generalized surveillance of third-country nationals and citizens alike.

**<span class="Underline">Us/them dichotomies are the r.c. of war</span>**
(**2004**)(Derek **Gregory,** professor of political science at the University of British Columbia, “The Colonial Present: Afghanistan, Palestine, Iraq”, Chapter 2: Architectures of Enmity, accessed through scribd, November 28, 2012)

The repertory companies involved are now American as well as European of course, but the theatrical motif is immensely suggestive. As one exiled Iraqi director puts it, the theater is a place where “one can perform this dividing line between fiction and reality, present and future.” The sense of performance matters, I suggest, for two reasons. In the first place, as the repertory figure implies, imaginative geographies are not only accumulations of time, sedimentations of successive histories; they are also performances of space. For this reason Alexander Moore’s critique of Said seems to me profoundly mistaken. In Said’s writings space is not “materialized as background” – “radically concretized as earth” – and it is wrong to use Soja’s “illusion of opaqueness” – space as “a superficial materiality, concretized forms susceptible to little else but measurement and phenomenal description” – as a stick with which to beat him. For Said, too, space is an effect of practices of representation, valorization and articulation; it is fabricated through in these practices and is thus not only a domain but also a “doing”. In the second place, performances may be scripted (they usually are) but this does not make their outcomes fully determined; rather, performance creates a space in which it is possible for “newness” to enter the world. Judith Butler describes the conditional, creative possibilities of performance as “a relation of being implicated in that which one opposes, [yet] turning power against itself to produce alternative political modalities, to establish a kind of political contestation that is not a ‘pure opposition’ but a difficult labour of forging a future from resources inevitably impure.” This space of potential is always conditional, always precarious, but every repertory performance of the colonial present carries within it the twin possibilities of either reaffirming and even radicalizing the hold of the colonial past on the present or undoing its enclosures and approaching closer to the horizon of the postcolonial. In the chapters that follow I work with these ideas to sketch the ways in which “America” and “Afghanistan,” “Israel” and “Palestine,” were jointly (not severally) produced through the performance of imaginative geographies in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington on September 11, 2001. I also explore the ways in which America took advantage of those same attacks and mobilized those same geographies (or variants of them) to wage another war on Iraq in the spring of 2003. It has become commonplace to turn the events that took place in New York City and Washington on September 11, 2001 into “September 11” or “9/11” – to index the central, composite cluster of events by time not space – but this does not mean, as some commentators have suggested, that these were somehow “out-of-geography” events. On the contrary, their origins have surged inwards and their consequences rippled outwards in complex, overlapping ways. The circuits that linked the military engagements launched in the dying months of that year by America against Afghanistan and by Israel against Palestine, and 18 months later by America and Britain against Iraq, cannot be exposed through any linear narrative. They were products of what Said would call “overlapping territories” and “intertwined histories,” and so recovering these spatial stories and their contrapuntal filiations requires me to track backwards and forwards around September 11, connecting different places and combining different time-scales. Seen like this, as I hope to show, September 11 was a truly hideous event in which multiple geographies coalesced and multiple histories condensed in ways that have considerably extended the present moment of danger. These extensions have been made possible through the connective imperative between colonial modernity and its architecture of enmity. I borrow this phrase from political scientist from Michael Shapiro, and it flows through much of my discussion in different forms and from different sources. “Geography is inextricably linked to the architecture of enmity,” Shapiro writes, because it is centrally implicated “in how territorially elaborated collectivities locate themselves in the world and thus how they practice the meanings of Self and Other that provide the conditions of possibility for regarding others as threats or antagonists.” Architectures of enmity are not halls of mirrors reflecting the world – they enter into its very constitution – and while the imaginaries to which they give shape and substance are animated by fears and desires they are not mere phantasms. They inhabit dispositions and practices, investing them with meaning and legitimation, and so sharpen the spurs of action. As the American response to September 11 unfolded, and preparations were made for an armed assault on Afghanistan, James Der Derian cautioned that “more than a rational calculation of interests takes us to war. People go to war because of how they see, perceive, picture, imagine and speak of others: that is, how they construct the difference of others as well as the sameness of themselves through representation”.

**<span class="Underline">Recognition of violent cartogrophies come first</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Shapiro 98** Michael J. Shapiro, professor of political science at the University of Hawaii, Violent Cartographies. P21-22)</span>

“Without recognizing what this map has repressed, we cannot recover an important dimension of the history of warfare and therefore develop an effective ethical and political apprehension that engages peoples who are not easily coded within the dominant system of sovereignties.”

**Interrogating narratives is the key starting point**
Elvia R. Arriola **2000** (B.A., California State University, Los Angeles J.D., University of California, Berkeley M.A., New York University, Professor Arriola joined NIU Law in 2001 and teaches Constitutional Law, Gender, Sexuality and the Law, Civil Rights Litigation, Family Law and a research and writing seminar, Women, Law and the Global Economy. She is a Women's Studies Faculty Associate. “VOICES FROM THE BARBED WIRES OF DESPAIR: WOMEN IN THE MAQUILADORAS, LATINA CRITICAL LEGAL THEORY, AND GENDER AT THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER” 49 DePaul L. Rev. 729 1999-2000 (http://heinonline.org)

I have previously argued that narratives and stories, even those gleaned from popular culture, can humanize the law, that is, flesh out its impact on people's lives. 10 1 In the context of exploring the breadth of the social injustices at the U.S.-Mexico border, which teems with opportunities for a better life as well as for the high risks of death at the hands of United States agents, storytelling is crucial.102 Arguably, taking on the subject of the border as a whole by deconstructing the interrelationship between routine border patrol enforcement, which appears mostly to impact male migrants, and the transnational relocation of American companies who will mostly employ Latinas, is not possible. It will either be too much or too little in my effort to grasp fully the interrelationships between life, labor, and law on both sides of the border. In fact, taking on such a project feels like a transgressive act, one that violates the intellectual or political borders discouraging me from centralizing the experiences of Mexican citizens while I presume to analyze the impact of American law and policy.103 But for a critical legal theorist, this is a worthy transgressive act. Undoubtedly, to open the door to the study of the border is to invite an overwhelming sense of defeatism. This is the daunting task of deconstructing all of what is embedded in the casual mention of "life on the border." To residents of the Southwest, the short phrase means so much, although its interpretation will obviously vary depending upon the person's own identity. Among the dominant classes, for example, including Anglo-whites and assimilated Mexican-Americans, or other non-Mexicans, the reference evokes images of the opportunities for cheap imported products and a high return on the American dollar for resorts, hotels, liquor, and weekend getaways. At one time an American's crossing into Mexico also meant the quick abortion one could not obtain in the United States or even a quick divorce. 10 4 But, a look at the border from a human rights or social justice standpoint triggers a more complex picture. Many are able to ignore it because a host of common stereotypes effectively dehumanize the identity of the border resident/Mexican citizen into faceless "illegals,"' 0 1 5 "dumb Mexicans,"'1 6 "wets" '10 7 or "wetbacks," and "difficult to train Mexican maids."' 08 Yet, underlying these stereotypes are the voices of persons whose human needs and despair intersect with socio-economic problems that are vast, originating as they do in seemingly uncontrollable phenomena such as the culture of poverty,10 9 legitimized corporate profiteering through the use of cheap foreign labor, and environmental abuse. The problems are compounded by limited or uncoordinated bi-governmental oversight of the corporate activities that give rise to the occupational and environmental hazards, either because of incomplete restraints or loopholes in immigration regulations,t" 0 trade agreements like NAFTA," 1 or lax enforcement of labor policies under Mexican law. 112 The researcher of life on the border must also confront the prevailing attitude that whatever happens on the other side is of no concern to Americans, no matter how bad the problem.113 I would argue, however, that some issues involving the U.S.-Mexico border cannot be ignored by the socially progressive theorist. For some people, life on the border is a constant skirting of the edges of death. Exposure to life-threatening working conditions or inhaled production chemicals are a problem.' 14 At the very least, this is an issue of human rights or environmental racism. As the workforce in these American owned maquiladoras is highly feminized, the issue of women's treatment should evoke the concerns of the feminist theorist. As the women in maquiladoras are mostly Mexicanas or from Central and South America, their treatment is a concern for the Latina critical legal theorist. The question then is what is the appropriate response and how does one analyze the social justice issues of "life on the U.S.-Mexico border," with a rational and manageable approach capable of producing recommendable solutions either in law or public policy?

**<span class="Underline">That solves</span>**
**Doty (2006)**(Roxanne Lynn is Associate Professor of Political Science in Arizona State University, Tempe) Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2006 35: 53 “Fronteras Compasivas and the Ethics of Unconditional Hospitality” Dec 1, 2006 http://mil.sagepub.com/content/35/1/53.citation Herm

If one follows Derrida’s understanding of the general text as experience and writing in the broad sense as practices that signify, construct meaning, and close off meaning, then Humane Borders ‘writes’ with a textual voice that weaves itself ‘so as to be effaced’.55 Their voice may not be effaced in terms of the publicity they receive, but it is effaced in terms of any possible debt owed by the recipients of their hospitality. It is with a certain ‘voice’ that Humane Borders speaks to those who are thirsty in the desert, a voice that does not demand recognition or gratitude. Theirs is the ethical work of giving to the stranger without hope of return or remuneration. Human Borders practises a ‘writing’ that engages a double-reading of the border, a reading that carefully interprets the texts of state sovereignty and national identity, but that simultaneously destabilises them by locating points of otherness implied in these in the form of death to the innocent others seeking only to share in what these sovereign texts purport to hold near and dear. Through therecognition of and respect for the presence and the plight of others, this writing exhibits an unboundedness which interrupts notions of polity, justice, ethics, and hospitality which are anchored in an unquestioned allegiance to the nation-state as a political, social, and cultural form through which issues of legality, ethics, and rights must be posed and answered. I am not suggesting that Humane Borders advocates destruction of the nation-state or even completely open borders, but only that their ‘writing’ opens onto many possibilities of which this might be one. Theirs is but a momentary interruption, but an interruption nonetheless. The form this interruption takes is as follows. Illegal immigration forces a constant re-enactment of the founding violence that establishes the nation-state and maintains its authority,but that generally remains invisible in our awareness of life around us. Thisre-enactment consists of the violence of border/immigration policies that devalue the lives of those who are ‘not us’ so as to produce ‘us’ continually. While, in one sense, Humane Borders seeks to mitigate this violence through the provision of life-sustaining water, in an equally significant sense their practice demystifies the brutality necessary to maintain the illusion of our bounded democratic polity. In this sense water stations are moments of deconstruction happening.

<span class="cite">**Therefore, my partner and I stand resolved:** </span>

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure serving official United States' ports-of-entry.**



----





==<span class="Underline">Negative</span>== 


=Elections 1nc= 
Obama winning-best models predict-prefer it to polls
Nate <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silver, 9-18</span>-2012 [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/18/sept-17-electoral-college-may-not-help-obama/]]

<span class="Underline">The FiveThirtyEight</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> presidential... ...</span>the consensus of the data says at any given time<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Plan is unpopular with the public**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alden, 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">--- Senior Fellow at CFR (6/14/2012, Edward, “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere,” [[@http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]]) // NK</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">But congressional </span>inaction<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> in many ways... ...</span>have been unable to get through<span class="Underline"> Congress</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Swings the election in Romneys favor
**Abramowitz, 6/7/12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alan I. Abramowitz, Senior Columnist, Center for politics, 6/7/12 [[http://www.centerforpolitics.org/crystalball/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With five months to go until Election... ...Romney. The results are displayed in Table 1.</span>

Obama loss causes middle east instability and oil shocks
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Curiel 2010</span> (Jonathan Curiel, respected journalist, taught as Fulbright Scholar at Punjab University in Lahore, Pakistan, researched at Oxford as a Reuters Foundation Fellow, “What just might happen if Obama loses in 2012,” Jonathan Curiel’s blog, google)

<span class="TitleChar">War in Iran: </span>The Republicans’<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ascension... ...</span>insurgency against the United States.

=Food Prices 1nc= 

**Russian economy is strong now but agriculture is critical to keep it diverse—that’s key to the global economy**
**DELANEY 1-26-2011** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Martin, “Russia: The Wild East,” Investment And Pensions Europe)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">However, many would argue they are wrong... ...</span>__but now is the time that the great fortunes of the future are being made__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**Transportation infrastructure investment lowers food prices**
**PECC 4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“The Role of Transportation Infrastructure in a Seamless Food System,” Pacific Food System Outlook 2004-2005, [[http://www.pecc.org/resources/doc_view/638-pacific-food-system-outlook-the-role-of-transportation-infrastructure-in-a-seamless-food-system]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">From a local perspective, </span>__building... ...____services to avoid bottlenecks.__


**High grain prices key to Russian growth**
**AP NEWSWIRE 9-10-2008** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(www.newsday.com/business/investing/wire/sns-ap-russian-breadbasket,0,5647019.story)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">An American-made combine harvests barley... ...today expects to harvest at least five tons of wheat out of the same plot, he said.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">FILGER 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In </span>Russia__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> historically, </span>__economic health...__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ...Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>
==States CP== 
States solve transportation infrastructure
**Poole 1996**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President of the Reason Foundation. An engineering graduate of MIT, he has advised the U.S. and California departments of transportation, the White House, and the President's Commission on Privatization. He is the author of numerous policy studies on such topics as airport privatization, air traffic control corporations, congestion pricing, and private tollroads. He was a member of the Caltrans Privatization Advisory Steering Committee in 1989-90 and the California Commission on Transportation Investment in 1995-96. (Robert, 1996, “DEFEDERALIZING TRANSPORTATION FUNDING,” [[http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf)JCP|http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf)]]</span>


Airports, highways, and mass transit systems are primarily state and local responsibilities.<span class="underline"> They are developed and operated by state and local governments</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (with increasing private-sector involvement) </span><span class="underline">and funded primarily from state and local sources. Yet </span>the federal government<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, by collecting transportation user taxes and using them to make grants for these systems, </span><span class="underline">both </span>raises the costs and exerts significant control over these state and local activities<span class="underline">. Congress should devolve transportation infrastructure funding and responsibilities to cities and states</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ending federal grant programs and their accompanying restrictions</span><span class="underline">. Cities and states have been open to privatization, and most would welcome the flexibility and freedom</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from costly federal regulations which devolution would give them. </span>Devolving transportation funding would lead to more-productive investment<span class="underline">, greater intermodalism, more innovation, </span>and new capital from the private sector<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Conventional wisdom suggests that 21 states are net donors to the federal highway program and the rest are net recipients. But this paper's analysis, taking into account the real costs of federal funding and regulations, concludes that </span><span class="underline">33 states get back less than they contribute in highway taxes and would be better off if the funds were left in their states to begin with.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> By adding such major states as Illinois, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia to the donor-state category, this assessment could change the political dynamics in favor of devolution. </span><span class="underline">A</span>bundant evidence now exists that federal transit programs have stimulated investment in unviable rail systems and have needlessly boosted transit system operating cost<span class="underline">s</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The flexibility created by repeal of federal transit regulations would permit changes (such as competitive contracting of transit operations) that could save enough to offset much of the loss of federal operating subsidies</span><span class="underline">. It would be up to cities and states to decide whether to continue to invest in non-cost-effective rail transit. The only truly federal role in aviation is ensuring safety and facilitating the modernization of the air traffic control system</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The latter can best be accomplished by divesting ATC to a user-funded corporation, as 16 other countries have done. </span><span class="underline">Airports should be defederalized; all sizes of commercial airports could make up for the loss of federal grants with modest per-passenger charges. States could decide whether to subsidize unviable general aviation airports. Overall, </span>the federal government would retain certain coordination and safety-regulation functions<span class="underline"> in transportation. </span>Bu<span class="underline">t it </span>would h<span class="underline">enceforth </span>leave investment and management<span class="underline"> decisions </span>to state, city, and private decision-makers

=TRIP CP= 

**The United States federal government should issue Transportation and Regional Infrastructure Project (TRIP) bonds sufficient to** **substantially increase its investment in equitable mass transit infrastructure in the United States.**

**TRIP bonds solve best and avoid fiscal fights**

**Holtz-Eakin ‘12**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Douglas Holtz-Eakin academic, policy adviser, and strategist,President of the American Action Forum and recently was Commissioner on the Congressionally-chartered Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission American Action Forum “TRIP bonds and national infrastructure needs” 2/7/2012 [[http://americanactionforum.org/topic/trip-bonds-and-national-infrastructure-needs]] KG)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Using these lessons of economic history as a metric, how do the proposed TRIP bonds stand up?... U.S. for transportation infrastructure investment. </span>

**Counterplan is mode-neutral making it more flexible and efficient than the plan, and avoids normal means debt explosion.**

**Holtz-Eakin ‘12**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Douglas Holtz-Eakin academic, policy adviser, and strategist,President of the American Action Forum and recently was Commissioner on the Congressionally-chartered Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission American Action Forum “TRIP bonds and national infrastructure needs” 2/7/2012 [[http://americanactionforum.org/topic/trip-bonds-and-national-infrastructure-needs]] KG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The United States faces dual problems of subpar …key infrastructure needs not easily identified by a national approach </span>



=Immigration Reform= 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">CIR will pass – G of 8 knows what it’s doing</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Brown, 4-25</span>

(4-25-13. Carrie Brown is a White House reporter who focuses on the intersection of policy and politics in the administration and on Capitol Hill. “70+ votes for immigration reform?” [[http://www.politico.com/story/2013/04/leaders-at-least-70-votes-for-immigration-reform-90626.html?hp=f1]]) Henge

<span class="Underline">The two lead…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “I wouldn’t go that far,” drawing laughs.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Backlash to the plan diminishes key political will in other areas of legislation like CIR</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hirsh ‘13</span> Michael Hirsh, “There’s No Such Thing as Political Capital,” National Journal, 2/7/2013, [[http://www.nationaljournal.com/magazine/there-s-no-such-thing-as-political-capital-20130207]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Presidents are limited in what they can do by time and attention span, of course, just as much as they are by electoral balances in the House and Senate. But this, too, has nothing to do with political capital. </span><span class="Underline">….</span>//the room//<span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the aides said.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Key to draw high skilled tech workers back to the US</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Reuters 1-29</span> “Immigration Reform To Provide Net Benefit To U.S. Economy: Experts,” 1/29/2013, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/29/immigration-reform-economic-boost_n_2571414.html?utm_hp_ref=business

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">NEW YORK, Jan 29 (Reuters) - </span><span class="Underline">The sluggish U.S…2 percent</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Increased retention of STEM expertise key to combat cyberwar</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">McLarty ‘9</span> Thomas F. McLarty III, President Of McLarty Associates, Former White House Chief of Staff and Task Force Co-Chair, question asked by Frank Finelli, the Carlyle Group, “U.S. Immigration Policy: Report of a CFR-Sponsored Independent Task Force,” Council on Foreign Relations, 7/8/2009, http://www.cfr.org/immigration/us-immigration-policy-report-cfr-sponsored-independent-task-force/p19759

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have seen, …same or greater seriousness.” [7] </span>





=T-Underlying= 

**Transportation infrastructure has to be the underlying structures not accessories added onto the existing structures**

**Trimbath ’11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Susanne Trimbath “Transportation Infrastructure: Paving the way” Senior Advisor on corporate community investment for the Business Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce CEO and Chief Economist of STP Advisory Services, formerly Senior Research Economist at the Milken Institute http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructure/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf)</span>

The strategy applied…__Intermodal Links__
=T - NIB= 

**A. Investment is capital spending on infrastructure’s physical capital**
**CBO, 9** – Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October, [[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this analysis, </span>investment... <span class="Underline">...on research and development</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Only direct investments constitute capital spending**
**Gramlich 98** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">former professor of economics at the University of Michigan and a former member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (Edward, Before the President's Commission to Study Capital Budgeting, Washington, D.C., 3/6/98, http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/speeches/1998/19980306.htm)//EM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Apart from politics, </span>__how in principle... ,,,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">identifying this small amount of spending.</span>