[[toc]]
=Info= 

**Cite requests**
Affirmative: sdlavelle14@gmail.com
Negative: kevin.pucci@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
==1AC Homewood-Flossmoor== 

===1AC Trade=== 

**Contention 1: Trade**

**Increased investment is needed to solve inland waterway and seaport funding gap**
**Natale 1/31** P.E., Executive Director of American Society of Civil Engineers (Patrick, 31 January 2013, “We Need $30.2 Billion by 2020, National Journal, http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2013/01/ports-matter-too.php#2294228)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Army Corps …deserve our attention.</span>


**Failure to invest destroys competiveness and all sectors of the economy**
**ASCE 13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Society of Civil Engineers (“Failure to Act: The Impact of Current Infrastructure Investment On America’s Economic Future,” http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Failure_to_Act/Failure_to_Act_Report.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By failing to invest … as shown in Table 19.</span>


**The perception of a federal commitment to water infrastructure is vital to retain foreign customers – key to recovery**
**Calhoun 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc (Rick, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest, [[http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/889143450?accountid=14667]]”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Just like the nation itself… inland waterways transportation system.</span>


**It’s reverse causal – trade deficit __prevents recovery__**
**Weller 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Christian, Dr. Christian E. Weller is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and an associate professor of public policy at the University of Massachusetts Boston. His area of expertise includes retirement income security, macroeconomics, money and banking, and international finance. He is also a research scholar at the University of Massachusetts Amherst’s Political Economy Research Institute and an institute fellow at the University of Massachusetts Boston’s Gerontology Institute. Prior to joining the Center, he was on the research staff at the Economic Policy Institute, where he remains a research associate. “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion”, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/high_tech_trade.html/print.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States faces enormous … long-term economic growth.</span>


**And, plan’s is also key to trade leadership – solves global stability**
**Kiefer et al 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jack, principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indirect benefits of Corps projects … to a handful of coastal states.</span>


**Economic decline leads to war – statistical evidence proves**
**Royal 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods … deserves more attention. </span>


**And, US growth is key to the global economy and sustaining international trade**
**Posen 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the postwar period…following priority measures.</span>


**Trade kills the incentive for war — solves all their impacts**
**Griswold 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our more globalized world … by civil conflict and war.</span>
===1AC Maritime Industry=== 

**Contention 2: Maritime Industry**

**First, the maritime industry will collapse without dredging**
**Weakley 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, [[http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">America´s deep-draft navigation … would quickly lose its efficiencies.</span>


**That destroys naval power — affects every sector of the Navy**
**NLUS 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Navy League of the United States, Since 1902, the NLUS has sought to provide a stronger sea voice to Congress and to the American people, “America’s Maritime Industry: the foundation of American seapower.”, [[http://www.navyleague.org/files/americas-maritime-industry.pdf]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The American Maritime Industry … U.S. maritime superiority. </span>


**Independently, lack of deepening restricts naval mobility**

**MARAD 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, June 2005, “Report to congress on the performance of ports and the intermodal system,” [[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lack of attention to port maintenance … significant commercial ¶ cargo.</span>


**Naval power deters great power wars and deescalates conflict—strategic retrenchment means now is key**
**England et al. 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Gordon England is a former secretary of the Navy. General James Jones is a former commandant of the Marine Corps. Admiral Vern Clark is a former chief of naval operations; “The Necessity of U.S. Naval Power,” July 11, http://gcaptain.com/necessity-u-s-naval-power?27784)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The future security environment underscores … challenges of the future.</span>


**Naval power key to Asia pivot – key to stability in the region**
**Greenert 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Admiral Jonathan, 11/14, “Sea Change: The Navy pivots to Asia”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/11/14/sea_change?page=0,4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our nation's security priorities… capital across the region.</span>


**Effective Asia pivot is key to solve multiple scenario for nuclear war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Colby 11</span> – Elbridge Colby, research analyst at the Center for Naval Analyses, served as policy advisor to the Secretary of Defense’s Representative to the New START talks, expert advisor to the Congressional Strategic Posture Commission, August 10, 2011, “Why the U.S. Needs its Liberal Empire,” The Diplomat, online: http://the-diplomat.com/2011/08/10/why-us-needs-its-liberal-empire/2/?print=yes
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the pendulum shouldn’t … too important to be so wasted.</span>



===1AC Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its inland waterway and seaport transportation infrastructure.**

===1AC Solvency=== 

**Contention 3: Solvency**

**Water infrastructure is the lifeline of economic wellbeing – federal investment in necessary**
**Nagle 1/28** President and CEO, American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt, 28 January 2013, “Investments in Seaports Propel Economy,” National Journal, http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2013/01/ports-matter-too.php#2293826)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout America … national, state and local levels.</span>

**The federal government is key – regulations mean any new projects will take __decades__ unless the federal government expedites construction**
**Nagle 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before the United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subommittee”, Budget Hearing- U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Assistant Secretary, Chief of Engineers, March 7, 2012, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)/MM|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)//MM]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, the funding level … of today and tomorrow.</span>


**Private and local action decimates the industry**

**AAPA 9**—American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009,[[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Q. Why should the … options are limited.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Port infrastructure is under __federal jurisdiction__ and federal action is vital to __leadership__</span>**
**AAPA, 11** - AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)/GP|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)//GP]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over time these constitutional … be recognized and prioritized.</span>

==1AC Emory== 

===1AC Trade=== 

**Contention one is Trade**

**Panama Canal expansion means new port deepening is key to trade competitiveness**
**Bridges 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jerry A, Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority, “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ports are dynamic…We cannot wait. </span>

**And, increased dredging is necessary to sustain US export competitiveness**
**AAPA 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (American Association of Port Authorities, “Maintaining and Deepening our Maritime Highways” November 2010, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Awareness/HMT%20Fact%20Sheet_12%2028%2010.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Seaports serve as a … are contained and not harmful.</span>

**Seaport competitiveness key to US economic growth – plan also stimulates growth**
**Nagle 11** --- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">president and chief executive officer of the American Association of Port Authorities (December 2011, Kurt, Industry Today, “Association: American Association of Port Authorities; Port-Related Infrastructure Investments Can Reap Dividends,” vol. 14, no. 3, [[@http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F370]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It seems the …federal navigation channels.</span>

**The perception of a federal commitment to port infrastructure is vital to retain foreign customers – key to recovery**
**Calhoun 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc (Rick, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest, [[http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/889143450?accountid=14667]]”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Just like the nation itself… transportation system.</span>

**It’s reverse causal – trade deficit __prevents recovery__**
**Weller 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Christian, Dr. Christian E. Weller is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and an associate professor of public policy at the University of Massachusetts Boston. His area of expertise includes retirement income security, macroeconomics, money and banking, and international finance. He is also a research scholar at the University of Massachusetts Amherst’s Political Economy Research Institute and an institute fellow at the University of Massachusetts Boston’s Gerontology Institute. Prior to joining the Center, he was on the research staff at the Economic Policy Institute, where he remains a research associate. “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion”, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/high_tech_trade.html/print.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States faces…long-term economic growth.</span>


**And, plan’s is also key to trade leadership – solves global stability**
**Kiefer et al 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jack, principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indirect benefits of … handful of coastal states.</span>



**And, US growth is key to the global economy and sustaining international trade**
**Posen 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the postwar period…following priority measures.</span>

**Economic decline leads to war – statistical evidence proves**
**Royal 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive … deserves more attention. </span>

**Trade kills the incentive for war — solves all their impacts**
**Griswold 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our more globalized …conflict and war.</span>

===1ac Ag=== 

**Contention two is Agriculture**


**Sustaining US agricultural exports depends on __capacity upgrades__ in port infrastructure**
**Khachatryan and Casavant 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Research Associate and Director/Professor at the Freight Policy Transportation Institute at the School of Economic Sciences at Washington State Unviersity (Hayk and Ken, THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IMPROVEMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE, [[http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The efficient and affordable…through the 16 ports.</span>

**Dredging is critical to sustain agricultural competitiveness**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gibbs 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Legislative Hearing on RAMP Act with the House of Representatives, Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Bob Gibbs is the chairman of the subcommittee (Bob, “Legislative Hearing on the RAMP Act”, Legislative Hearing, 7/8/11, [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg67286/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg67286.pdf]])//MM//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mr. GIBBS. … threaten national security. </span>//


//**The Panama Canal expansion will shift global trade patterns away from the Gulf Coast without port upgrades – this cuts off US grain exports**//
//**Stallman, 2012** – President of the American Farm Bureau (Bob, “Update Our Ports or Miss the Boat”, American Farm Bureau, April 2012, [[http://www.fb.org/index.php?action=newsroom.agendas&year=2012&file=ag04-2012.html]])// MGD

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Someone once said … miss the boat.</span>

**Food price fluctuations are inevitable unless US food exports solve price volatility – other major exporters will implement export bans, only the US can fill in**
**Pinstrup-Anderson, 11** - H.E. Babcock Professor of Food, Nutrition and Public Policy Professor of Applied Economics and Management, and J. Thomas Clark Professor of Entrepreneurship Cornell University, Ithaca, New York (Per, “ The Global Food and Nutrition Situation: Implications for the 2012 Farm Bill”, 5/26, Senate Testimony, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&sqi=2&ved=0CE4QFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.ag.senate.gov%2Fdownload%2Fpinstrup-anderson-testimony&ei=03f8T6yqBKec2AXm6aV4&usg=AFQjCNGQuODALFwc5TTB1paNk7uTbNqbEQ]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, large … doing good.”</span>


**Dredging is key to competitive agricultural exportation and lowering food prices**
**IWR 6/20** – Institute for Water Resources (“U.S. Port and Inland Waterways Modernization: Preparing for Post-Panamax Vessels”, Institute for Water Resources, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 20, 2012, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/portswaterways/rpt/June_20_U.S._Port_and_Inland_Waterways_Preparing_for_Post_Panamax_Vessels.pdf]])

The Panama Canal expansion … competitivenavigation system.

**The collapse of U.S. agricultural competitiveness turns every impact and makes extinction inevitable**
**Lugar 4** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Senator – Indiana, Beta Theta Pi from Denison University, Rhodes Scholar at Pembroke College - Bachelor and Master's degrees, U.S. Navy Lieutenannt (Richard, “Plant Power” Our Planet v. 14 n. 3, http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a world … health of our planet.</span>

===1AC Plan=== 

**Thus, the plan:**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port deepening projects in the United States.</span>**

===1AC Solvency=== 


**Contention three is Solvency**

**Funding is insufficient – certain investment key**
**Szakonyi 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark, Associate Director of the Journal of Commerce, “The Hill Ramping Up Dredging Efforts”, Journal of Commerce, 5/7, ProQuest) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"This is a significant development.… is for federal help.</span>

**Procedural delay means federal expedition is key**
**Anderson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(A. Paul, Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT), “Testimony of A. Paul Anderson Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) for the Record of the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment Hearing: “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?””, October 26, 2011, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Anderson.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With increasingly larger …is fundamentally broken. </span>

**The plan will allow the US to double exports in the next 5 years**
**USA Today 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– news agency (Larry Copeland, “A goal to be port of call for all; U.S. sites digging in to accommodate big ships,” USA Today, October 3, 2011, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It's just before …Marooned at low tide</span>


==1AC Michigan== 
===Hegemony=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It prevents conflicts from escalating</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Zhang and Shi 11</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul Kennedy was probably right: ….</span> __a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.__

**Alternatives to hegemony end in miscalc and global war—empirics prove—decline makes every impact inevitable**
**Kagan 2/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe (Robert Kagan, February 11, 2012, “Why the World Needs America,”http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2012/0211_us_power_kagan)</span>

__History shows that__ __world orders__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … the world looked like right before the American order came into being. </span>

**There’s no root cause of war –deterrence solves anyway**
**Moore 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter L. Brown Professor of Law at the University of Virginia School of Law (John Norton Moore</span>**__, “__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solving the War Puzzle: beyond the democratic peace,” pg 41-43)</span>

__If major__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> interstate </span>__war is predominantly … making the gamble not worth the risk.__

**Plan is key to sustain heg – 3 reasons**

**First is the economy**

**Congestion, urbanization, and unemployment are threatening the economy- ITS is a pre-requisite for future growth**
**Keeling and Mooney 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[2011, Dr. Mary Keeling is a Manager of the IBM Institute for Business Value Center for Economic Analysis. She holds a PhD in Economics from Trinity College, Dublin. Gerard M. Mooney is currently General Manager of Global Smarter Cities. IBM Executive Report, “Transportation and economic development: Why smarter transport is good for jobs and growth”[[http://public.dhe.ibm.com/common/ssi/ecm/en/gbe03441usen/GBE03441USEN.PDF]]]</span>

__High unemployment, languid economic growth and growing urbanization … they purchase and those employed to provide them.__

**Stagnate growth trigger premature retrenchment- ends in great power wars**
**Khalilzad 11** **– PhD, Former Professor of Political Science @ Columbia, Former ambassador to Iraq and Afghanistan**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Economy and National Security" Feb 8 www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>__economic__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and fiscal </span>__trends pose the most …____hostile states would__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> be emboldened to </span>__make aggressive moves__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in their regions. </span>

**The second internal link is power projection**

**ITS deployment is key to homeland military efficiency**
**Honea et al. 2k**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> -</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD (Robert B., Sarah E. Brown Captain of the U.S. Navy, Military Traffic Management Command, Henry M. Bennet, Military Traffic Management Command, Transportation Engineering Agency, “U.S. Military Transportation,” Committee on Military Transportation, http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/millennium/00137.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Intelligent Transportation Systems The advent of </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to promote compatibility between systems.</span>

**And, homeland readiness is vital to overall power projection**
**DOT 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Introduction to the Current Military Deployment Concepts”, Federal Highway Administration for the Department of Transportation, May 10, http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/OpsSecurity/dev-mx/chapter_1.htm)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Strategic **mobility and readiness …**</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">standard highway procedures for convoys.</span>__

**And, the third internal link is competitiveness**

**U.S. is falling behind in economic competitiveness- ITS is key to solve**
**IEEE 10** (“U.S. Economic Competitiveness and Intelligent Transportation Systems Technology”, February, 2010, [[http://www.ieeeusa.org/policy/positions/ITS.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IEEE-USA strongly endorses </span>__a national initiative …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and consumers who are more willing to pay to be early adopters of new vehicle technologies.</span>

**Competitiveness is key to hegemony**
**Segal 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations (Adam, Foreign Affairs, “Is America Losing Its Edge?” November / December 2004, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html) </span>

__The____U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited States' </span>__global …must get better at fostering technological entrepreneurship at home.__
===Warming=== 

**Global warming is real, caused by human CO2 emissions, and will cause flooding and feedback loops that causes population migrations fueling political instability, economic collapse, and failed states, escalating to nuclear war in a vicious cycle to extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kaku 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Michio Kaku, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf Accessed 6/26/12 BJM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By midcentury, the full impact of a fossil fuel …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> causing a runaway cycle of global warming. </span>

**Anthropogenic warming causes extinction**
**Tickell 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Oliver, Environmental Researcher, The Guardian, August 11, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]], JMB, accessed 6-23-11)</span>
__We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, …</span> __a similar hothouse Earth.__

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">And, independently Co2 acidifies oceans causing extinction</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sify 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cites Ove Hoegh-Gulberg: Professor at the University of Queensland and Director of the Global Climate Change Institute, John Bruno: Professor of Marine Science at the University of North Carolina (Sify News, June 19, 2010, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?” [[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sydney: </span>__Scientists have sounded alarm bells …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> undergoing massive change and in some cases beginning to fail'</span>, he added.__

**Prefer our evidence – most qualified experts agree that warming is real and anthropogenic**
**Anderegg et al 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology (William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and surveys of cli- mate scientists indicate striking agreement with the primary conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): </span>__anthropogenic greenhouse gases have been responsible …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and public </span>__forums regarding anthropogenic climate change__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Now, the plan is key to solve warming – 2 internal links**

**First – the plan is key to reduce congestion and emissions**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ezell 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF), with a focus on innovation policy, science and technology policy, international competitiveness, and trade, manufacturing, and services issues, January </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Executive Summary: Intelligent Transportation Systems”, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Intelligent transportation systems … deliver net environmental benefits.</span>__

**Congestion exacerbates warming and pollution**
**Iaione 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christian, The Tragedy Of Urban Roads: Saving Cities From Choking, Calling On Citizens To Combat Climate Change, 37 Fordham Urb. L.J. 889. Lexis//HH)//</span>
//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Urban congestion is …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in idiosyncratic cultural, land use, and political patterns.</span>//

//**And, reducing US congestion solves**//
//**West 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">During his 20-year career in newspapers, Larry was part of an investigative team whose work was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize and received the Meeman Award for national environmental reporting from the Scripps Howard Foundation. Later, Larry served as press secretary and deputy chief of staff for a U.S. Representative, and was communications director for a U.S. Senator. He also managed public affairs for a leading global technology company, the Federal Aviation Administration, and one of the largest ports in the United States. In each of those positions, Larry was involved in environmental strategy, policy and communications (Larry, U.S. “Autos Account for Half of Global Warming Linked to Cars Worldwide”http://environment.about.com/od/globalwarming/a/autoemissions.htm)</span>//NJain
__U.S.____automobiles and light____trucks are …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from America's auto sector, for the first time.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Second, the plan is key to advancements in computer science</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Winter et al 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephan Winter: The University of Melbourne, Australia, Monika Sester: Leibniz University Hannover, Germany, Ouri Wolfson: University of Illinois, Chicago, USA, Glenn Geers: National ICT Australia, Sydney, Australia, ACM SIGMOD Record, Volume 39 Issue 3, September 2010 , Pages 27-32, http://www.cs.uic.edu/~boxu/mp2p/39-135-1-SM.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the near future</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> seems to say it all. </span>
**It’s lagging now – only integrating it into infrastructure creates sustained focus for research and development**
**NRC 6/29** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(National Research Council, Deborah L. Estrin* Professor of Computer Science University of California Los Angeles, Alan Borning Professor Department of Computer Science and Engineering University of Washington Seattle, David E. Culler* Professor and Chair Computer Science Division University of California Berkeley, Thomas G. Dietterich Professor and Director of Intelligent Systems Research School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Oregon State University Corvallis, Daniel M. Kammen Professor Energy and Resources Group University of California Berkeley, Jennifer Mankoff Associate Professor Human Computer Interaction Institute Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, Roger D. Peng Associate Professor Department of Biostatistics Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Baltimore, Andreas Vogel Vice President Global Business Incubator SAP Labs Palo Alto, Calif., 2012, “Computing Advances Vital to Sustainability Efforts; New Report Recommends Problem-Focused, Iterative Approach to Research”, http://www8.nationalacademies.org/onpinews/newsitem.aspx?RecordID=13415)</span>
__Innovation in computing … to make progress.__

**And, computer science is key to solve warming**
**Strayer 4** (Michael Strayer, Acting Director of Mathematical, Informantion, and Computational Science Division of the US Department of Energy, September 19, 2004, <span style="color: black;">[[http://science.energy.gov/%7E/media/ascr/pdf/program-documents/archive/Scales_report_vol2.pdf|http://science.energy.gov/~/media/ascr/pdf/program-documents/archive/Scales_report_vol2.pdf]]</span>)
__An international consensus …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> discussion of these issues is given below.</span>

===Plan Text=== 

**Thus, the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in research, demonstration, and deployment of Intelligent Transportation Systems in the United States.**

===Solvency=== 

**Long-term sustained federal investment is key**
**Ezell 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF), with a focus on innovation policy, science and technology policy, international competitiveness, and trade, manufacturing, and services issues, January 2010, “Explaining International IT Application Leadership: Intelligent Transportation”, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf)</span>
__Information technology (IT) … state and regional levels.__


==1AC Glenbrooks== 
Same as Michigan except read new plan text and replaced Honea with

===1AC New Heg Card=== 
**ITS deployment is key to homeland military efficiency**
**Butera 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anthony, Major, USAF, quoting Robert B. Honea PhD, Sarah E. Brown Captain of the U.S. Navy, Military Traffic Management Command, Henry M. Bennet, Military Traffic Management Command, April 2003, “THE IMPORTANCE OF IN-TRANSIT VISIBILITY ON THE U.S. MILITARY LOGISTICS”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA476361]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The advent of </span>__intelligent transportation systems...____preparing for the future.__

===Plan Text=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in Intelligent Transportation Infrastructure.</span>**

==1AC Ohio Valley== 
same as glenbrooks except added this at the end of solvency

**Federal deployment key – states fail**
**GAO 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(United States Government Accountability Office, Report to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, House of Representatives, March 2012, “INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS: Improved DOT Collaboration and Communication Could Enhance the Use of Technology to Manage Congestion” [[http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/589430.pdf]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FHWA officials told us ...</span>of the larger network.



=Negative= 
==Strategies== 
===Michigan=== 

**Round 1: St. Vincent BF (Critical Trees)**
Nietzsche K (2NR)
T - Transportation Infrastructure
Jackson-Vanik DA
Case (with Transhumanism Turn)

**Round 4: Montgomery Bell BR (Disabilities)**
Jackson-Vanik DA (2NR)
States CP (2NR)
State Agency PIC
Nietzsche K
Case

**Round 5: Iowa City High GV (Seabasing)**
Bataille K (2NR)
T - Military
Earmarks CP
Jackson-Vanik DA
Case (AirSea Battle Turn)

===Glenbrooks=== 
**Round 2: Eagan MB (High Speed Rail)**
Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)
Upgrades CP (2NR)
Earmarks CP
Bataille K
Case (Ice Age Turn)

**Round 3: Kinkaid RC (JARC)**
Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)
Nietzsche K
States CP
State Agency PIC
Case (2NR)

**Round 6: Coppell DE (Natives)**
Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)
Nietzsche K
States CP
State Agency PIC
Case (2NR)


===Ohio Valley=== 
**Round 2: Stratford SO (Port Dredging)**
Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)
Privatization/Jones Repeal CP
Amend Shipping Act CP
Bataille K
Case (2NR)

**Round 4: Alpharetta KC (NextGen)**
<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">States CP</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Earmarking CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Bataille K</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Case (2NR)</span>


**Round 5: Northview DK (CCS)**
Fiscal Cliff DA
States CP
Bataille K (2NR)
Regulatory Framework CP
Case (Ice Age Turn)

===MBA=== 

**Round 1: Westminster LP (NIB)**
T-Investment
Sequestration DA (2NR)
Bundling CP (2NR)
Bataille K
Case

**Round 3: Casady DP (CCS)**
T-Excludes Pipelines
Sequestration DA (2NR)
Regulatory Framework CP (2NR)
States CP
Bataille K
Case

**Round 6: Cedar Rapids BL (Homelessness)**
Framework
T-Investment
Sequestration DA
Courts CP
Nietzsche K
Case

Forget the 2NR, I think it was DA/Case

===Emory=== 

**Round 2: St. Johns College High CL (Eco-Fem)**
Framework
Nietzsche K
State Agency PIC
Case w/ a bunch of turns

**Round 3: BYE**

**Round 5: Westminster SF (NIB)**
T-Investment
Immigration DA (2NR)
Bundling CP (2NR)
Bataille K
Case



===Homewood-Flossmoor=== 

**Round 2: Niles West BI (Port Security)**

Sequestration DA
Nietzsche K (2NR)
Cost Share CP
Earmark CP
Case

**Round 4: Whitney Young VH (MTS)**

Sequestration DA (2NR)
Nietzsche K
Earmark CP
Devolution CP (2NR)
Case

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Round 5: Niles West MK (Port Security)</span>**
Sequestration DA
Nietzsche K (2NR)
Cost Share CP
Earmark CP
Case






[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]