[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=**Cite Requests**= 
For cite request or full text (both aff and neg): apatel13@kentdenver.org
=**1AC - Wake Forest**= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">Plan</span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase investment in freight rail infrastructure through a federal freight trust fund.</span>**

==**Advantage One is Agriculture**== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. railway system is heading towards collapse under infrastructure capacity constraints</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> a) Structural issues and lack of investment – no other mode can pick up the slack</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tarm 08 </span>**[Michael Tarm, Associate Press Writer, citing Mathew Rose, CEO of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., Paul Bingham, a transportation analyst at research firm Global Insight, Randy Mullett, an analyst for the nonprofit Transportation Research Board, and Scott Haas, a vice president for United Parcel Service. “AP Impact: US Freight Rail Congestion a Concern.” 5/30/2008.] AP
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Railway executive Matthew Rose stood … heading toward fourth-world infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> b) Freight is shifting to railways – alleviating congestion issues is critical to the entire freight industry</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamberger 08</span>** [Ed Hamberger, President, Association of American Railroads. “Statement of Ed Hamberger, President and CEO , Association of American Railroads.” Committee on House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials. April 23, 2008. ProQuest Congressional.] AP
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Looking ahead, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the United States cannot … up from 32 million in 2006.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rail constraints tank the agriculture industry and cause food price volatility</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calhoun 05 </span>**[Richard Calhoun, Vice President, Grain and Oilseed Supply Chain – North America, Cargill Incorporated, on behalf of the North American Export Grain Association, and the National Grain & Feed Association. “Discussion on Agricultural Transportation and Energy Issues.” Hearing Before the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, United States Senate. November 9, 2005.] AP
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The transportation system in the United States has… unless transportation capacity problems can be successfully resolved</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Interdependence of rail magnifies the link - one interruption in freight could collapse the entire system</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamberger 08</span>** [Ed Hamberger, President, Association of American Railroads. “Statement of Ed Hamberger, President and CEO , Association of American Railroads.” Committee on House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials. April 23, 2008. ProQuest Congressional.] AP
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The magnitude of the looming freight rail </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">… existing capacity at high standards.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. agriculture industry is key to solving for multiple scenarios for extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lugar 11 </span>**[Richard G. Lugar, a US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “Plant Power.” 3/18/11 (Last Modified)] AP
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In a world confronted … survival of billions of people and the health of our planet.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario One is Poverty – </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Food price volatility locks in the cycle of poverty and forces those vulnerable into dire circumstances</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CIDSE 2011 </span>**[International Cooperation for Development and Solidarity. “Food Price Volatility: Consequences and impacts on the Right to Food.” October 2011.] AP
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Food consumption is said to be price inelastic… often at the expense of their own diets</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.12</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We must bring the structural nature of poverty into our ethical calculation – poverty is an ongoing nuclear war that both outweighs and causes the instances of violence that they isolate</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gilligan 96</span>** [James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, <span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">“</span>Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes.” p. 191-196]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The deadliest form of violence is poverty</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> … for they are inextricably related to each other, as cause to effect. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario Two is Pakistan-</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Food price volatility cause Pakistan economic and political instability</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aslam et al 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Manan Aslam, Abdul Ghafoor, and Shafqat Rasool, PK Economists. “Food Price Volatility in Pakistan.” January 13th, 2012. [[http://pkeconomists.com/food-price-volatility-in-pakistan]]] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">current volatility of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">domestic staple </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">food prices … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the stockiest when their prices are escalating remain the main issues.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That results in fundamentalist takeover and Indo-Pak nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 07 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Stephen John, Former Member of British Labour Party Executive Committee; political psychologist; researcher of Chaos/Complexity Theory, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strong centrifugal forces have … possibly nuclear war, between Pakistan and India could not be ruled out.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stone 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Lester Stone II, History News Network. “What Would Happen in an All-Out Nuclear War?” August 16th, 2010. [[http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=12473&pageid=37&pagename=Page+One]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The environmental effects … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps this is the reason why world leaders have kept their proverbial fingers off the button.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Volatility measures mean that your high prices good turns flow aff</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Henriques 08 </span>**[Diana B. Henriques, American financial journalist. “Price Volatility Adds to Worry on U.S. Farms.” April 22, 2008. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/22/business/22commodity.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Mr. Grieder, 49, is shy about complaining amid so much prosperity. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">… When you see elevators start pulling their bids for your crop, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">that tells me </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">we’ve got a real problem</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”</span>
==Advantage Two is Mexico== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Panama Canal expansion will dramatically shift global trade routes through North America - Obama’s new port dredging program is already adjusting ports for the new traffic and should’ve triggered your generic links, but rail expansion is the missing piece in accommodating for the new shipments </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Schwartz 8/21** [John Schwartz, National Legal Correspondent for the New York Times. “U.S. Ports Expand, With an Eye on Panama.” The New York Times. August 21, 2012. Lexis.] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This sense that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the new set of locks … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">''the railroads are not going to sit idly by'' and let the water route undercut their business.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Expanded rail capacity is key to the success of the new wave of freight – it’s the dominant mode upon which both trucking and water freight rely – that’s independently key to global trade</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Horsley 11** [John Horsley, Executive Director, American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials. “Freight-Rail Bottom Line Report.” Cambridge Systematics. 4/28/11 (Last Modified)] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freight-rail service provides a critical link in the nation’s intermodal freight transportation system, …account for 80 percent of rail-borne international trade by value.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rail capacity expansions are key to keeping up with new trade from the Panama expansion – absent improvements Mexico won’t be able to ship products throughout North America</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blank 09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Stephen Blank is the Ross Distinguished Visiting Professor of Canada-U.S. Business and Economic Relations, Western Washington University, and Co-Chair, North American Transportation Competitiveness Research Council. “Freight Transportation Infrastructure in North America: Getting Value for (Billions Of) Dollars.” Ivey Business Journal. February 2009.] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">With regard to rail</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a study of U.S. rail capacity commissioned </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…must we assume that best transportation planners can do is to enshrine Chicago as the black hole of freight transportation for the next 2 or 3 decades?</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rail is unique – the Mexican shipping industry relies on U.S. rails</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cassidy 8/23 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[William B. Cassity, Senior Editor, Journal of Commerce. “Shippers Report Tightening Truck Capacity in Mexico.” The Journal of Commerce. August 23, 2011. [[http://www.joc.com/trucking/shippers-report-tightening-truck-capacity-mexico]].] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. shippers importing goods from Mexico … increasing 17.1 percent year-over-year to $29.1 billion.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freight’s key to the Mexican economy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Villarreal 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[M. Angeles Villarreal, Specialist in International Trade and Finance. “U.S.-Mexico Economic Relations: Trends, Issues, and Implications.” Congressional Research Service. August 9, 2012.] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The bilateral economic relationship with Mexico is of key interest to the United States … After the significant decrease in trade in 2009 that resulted from the global economic downturn, U.S.-Mexico trade increased considerably in 2010 and 2011.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mexican economy is key to stop illegal immigration</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bansal 07 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Monisha Bansal, Staff Writer, citing Doug Massey, co-director of the Mexican Migration Project at Princeton University. “Helping Mexican Economy Key to Ending Illegal Immigration, Says Expert.” January 20, 2007. [[http://www.religiontoday.com/1466713/]]] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amid a growing national debate over how to deal with illegal aliens, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">one expert suggested Monday … To disincentivize Mexicans from crossing the border illegally</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Massey said,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the U.S. should help their home country to raise its economic outlook.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Illegal immigrants destroy bioterrorism-prevention capabilities – that’s key to containing attacks</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Gonzalez 07** [Daniel Gonzalez, The Arizona Republic. “Migrants weak link in facing bioterror.” May 19, 2007. The Arizona Republic.http://www.azcentral.com/arizonarepublic/news/articles/0519bioterrorism0519.html] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A year after the county received a poor grade for its bioterrorism-preparedness plan, … officials hadn't addressed how they would reach the entire community.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bioterror attacks coming now – outweigh nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Maurer 07** [Stephen M. Goldman School of Public Policy. “Lifeboat Foundation Bioshield.” http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ray Kurzweil says “</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">We have an existential threat now in the form of the possibility of a bioengineered malevolent biological virus. … And biological war is itself distressingly easy to wage.</span>

==Solvency== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Put away your disads – private railroads will increase investment in maintaining capacity but will fall short in expansion because of internal financial restraints – additional investment is key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamberger 08</span>**[Ed Hamberger, President, Association of American Railroads. “Statement of Ed Hamberger, President and CEO , Association of American Railroads.” Committee on House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials. April 23, 2008. ProQuest Congressional.] AP
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As described above, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the railroads are diligently doing everything they believe to be prudent to maintain and expand their capacity to provide service … </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">In such cases, those investment decisions should be based on projected returns that will most favor the long-tern sustainability of the rail network.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A Rail Trust Fund solves investment shortfalls – spurs other funding from states, localities, and private companies</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lipinksi 02</span>** [William Lipinksy, D. Rep, Illinois’ 5<span style="font-size: 12pt;">th</span> and 3<span style="font-size: 12pt;">rd</span> district. “Letter to Norman Y. Mineta, Secretary, Department of Transportation.” October 17, 2002.] AP
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As you know from your tenure as a Member of Congress on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and now as Secretary of Transportation, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">capacity constraints and congestion abound within our national freight rail system… It is in the national interest for that to change. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A rail trust fund would catalyze public and private sector projects – systematic and consistent funding is key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fritelli 03 </span>**[John F. Frittelli, Transportation Analyst, Resources, Science and Industry Division, CRS. “Intermodal Rail Freight: A Role for Federal Funding?” March 31, 2003.] AP
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The railroads are the only transportation mode … Federal funds could serve as a catalyst for getting projects underway.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction outweighs re-evaluation – there’s an option in preserving life</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 02 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Nick Bostrom, philosopher at Oxford. nickbostrom.com, “Existential Risk”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These reflections on moral uncertainty suggest an alternative, complementary way of looking at existential risk. Let me elaborate. Our present understanding of axiology might well be confused.</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We may not now </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">know … To __do this, we must prevent any existential catastrophe__</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No prior questions – empirical validity is sufficient justification for action – alternative frameworks cede to a theory-driven world </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Owen 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [David Owen, 2 Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">This image feeds back into IR exacerbating the first and second dangers, and so a potentially </span>__</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">vicious circle arises.</span>__</span>

=Negative= 

==Lacan K== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The modern society of enjoyment perpetuates the idea that through constant motion we can eliminate the gap inherent to subjectivity</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McGowan 04 </span>**[Todd McGowan. “The End of Dissatisfaction?” State University of New York Press. 2004.] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Kushner, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">our failure to address the</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> AIDS ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> it allows us to cover over the experience of dissatisfaction, to imagine ourselves in a state of complete enjoyment.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impact is violence – as the fantasy fails the only option is to find an external enemy to blame in order to sustain our internal conception of totality</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Stavrakakis 99** [Yannis Stavrakakis, member of the Essex School of Discourse Analysis. “Lacan & the Political.” Routledge.] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the light of our theoretical framework, fantasy can only exist as the negation of real dislocation, ... it gave rise to utter restlessness, and in place of a reconciliation between human freedom and social cohesion, it brought totalitarian coercion. (Talmon, 1971:95)</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is to engage in the Act – in the face of the decision of action presented by the 1AC, we instead make the impossible Third choice to disengage from the moment and reorient ourselves in terms of the problem – only then can we disengage from fantasy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek 06 </span>**[Slavoj Zizek. “The Parallax View.” MIT Press. February 17, 2006.] AP
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The universe of cartoons obeys two opposing rules, both of which violate the logic of our ordinary reality. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It does not simply “change the future”; it changes the future by changing the past itself (in the Bergsonian sense of inserting a new possibility into it).</span>__