[[toc]]
=Anxiety K= 
==1NC Anxiety K== 

**Imposing definitive descriptions and prescriptions __rooted__ in essential truths stems from an __anxiety that is repressed__ through the desire to distance ourselves from the world, that’s the root of the __domination of the planet__ through the __normalization of predictable control__. Thus we advocate __creative suspension__ – a mode of perception and decision-making in which we allow unexamined assumptions and rigidities to be brought into awareness. We need to resist the panic and chaos that is the natural response to anxiety**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Peat 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(F. David, Theoretical Physicist, Ph.D., Founder of the Pari Center for New Learning, “Gentle Action: Surviving Chaos and Change”, http://www.gentleaction.org/library/paper2.php)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">Many rapid changes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">that</span><span class="DebateUnderline">are __…__ </span>__appropriate to each new situation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The affirmative relies on many problematic synoptic tools, turning to government to implement its vision of collective responsibility – this only papers over the inherent problems of government**
**Carson**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Clarence B., specializes in American Intellectual History, The Freeman, “Reformer Watching,” vol. 31, no. 4, April, 1981, [[http://www.libertyhaven.com/politicsandcurrentevents/governmentreformitsrealrole/reformerwatching.html|www.libertyhaven.com/politicsandcurrentevents/governmentreformitsrealrole/reformerwatching.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reformer watching will probably never catch on as … even for those who may derive pleasure from it.</span>

==2NC Impact== 
**Ontology comes first**
**burke 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anthony Burke, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason” Theory & Event, 10.2, Project Muse</span>

<span class="UnderlinedTextChar">__This essay develops a theory about the causes of war__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- and thus aims to …and war -- tragically violent 'choices' will continue to be made.</span>

**only challenging abstract binary distinctions can prevent violence. As people line up to participate in the wholesale slaughter of people, we all become populations managed by the state erasing the value to life—comes first**
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kouros 97</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (George, Yale Law Graduate, And Holds a B.A. in Philosophy from Emory. “Become What You Are”)</span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although the consequences are grave, … the conditions for a eugenic nightmare.-</span></span></span>

==Keynes Link== 
**The reform proposed by the affirmative is analogous to Keynesian economics which states that bureaucrats should intervene only when it appears their decisions will be better than the chaos of the free market. It is specifically these interventions that short circuit the alternative. Even small government interventions will snowball and create a growing demand for greater intervention.** 
**Crowley, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Montreal Economic Institute, Montreal Economic Institute Paper, “The Man Who Changed Everyone’s Life: The Ubiquitous Ideas of F. A. Hayek (Conclusion),” 4-16-2001, www.iedm.org/library/crowlerB_en.html, JMP)</span>

__Some critics thought that Hayek was guilty of gross …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> managed trade, or demand management, </span>__is a myth.__ 

==At: Perm== 
**Any permutation that maintains some level of centralized planning will inevitably fail. Individual Liberty must be treated as the highest end and never be sacrificed**
**O’Driscoll**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerald P. Jr., Director of Policy Analysis at Citicorp and a Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, CATO Policy Report, “The Meaning of Hayek,” 5-9-1995, www.cato.org//pubs/policy_report/pr-nd-gd.html, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hayek is best known for his most widely read work, The Road to …</span> __inexorably leads to socialism"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Carl Menger].</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Focus on the state ignores the fascism hidden in the every day. Only a focus on the self and our relation towards repression can begin to account for the operations of desire – independent DA to your framework</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze & Guattari</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, //A Thousand Plateaus// (</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1980</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. p214-5.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Doubtless, fascism invented the concept of the totalitarian State, …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> with molecules both personal and collective.</span>

**A society based on spontaneous order is mutually exclusive with the plan’s centralized planning**
**O’Driscoll**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gerald P. Jr., Director of Policy Analysis at Citicorp and a Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, CATO Policy Report, “The Meaning of Hayek,” 5-9-1995, www.cato.org//pubs/policy_report/pr-nd-gd.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In all his work, </span>__Hayek focused on the …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as well as the enduring quality of his intellectually radical work, Friedrich Hayek.</span>

**The perm is literally impossible – radical thought and belief in the illusion of the real cannot be combined with an objective interpretation of the world. claiming they go together is a dangerous illusion that destroys both.**
**__Baudrillard in 95__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jean, April 19, "Radical Thought"]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In any case, </span>__the two orders of thought are **irreconcilable**. … the messenger is mistaken for the message, and thus already sacrificed__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==At: State Good/Gov Policymaking Args== 
**Beginning discussions at the intellectual level is more productive—causes better social change which their engagement can’t access—this is empirically proven**
**Bilgin 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Assistant Prof of International Relations at Bilkent University, REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE, p54-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The point is that </span>__a broader …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘threats to the future’ (Kubálková 1998: 193–201).</span>

**Order that emerges spontaneously through voluntary and mutually beneficial associations is superior to that produced by political society**
**Younkins**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Edward W. Younkins, Professor of Accountancy and Business Administration at Wheeling Jesuit University in West Virginia, “Civil Society: The Realm of Freedom,” No 63, 6-10-2000, http://www.quebecoislibre.org/000610-11.htm) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whereas the state, or political … </span>__prosperity, progress, and virtue flow.__ 

**We internal link turn this—Spontaneous order will yield more effective, decentralized solutions than centralized, government regulations and results in better state policymaking**
**Crowley, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Montreal Economic Institute, Montreal Economic Institute Paper, “The Man Who Changed Everyone’s Life: The Ubiquitous Ideas of F. A. Hayek (Conclusion),” 4-16-2001, www.iedm.org/library/crowlerB_en.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Spontaneous order TO REHABILITATE THE … will on the planner's vision. </span>

**Fiat’s bad – it obscures our responsibility and disengages us from real politics**
<span class="Heading2Char">Kappeler 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We are the war' does … therefore subject to human control.</span>

=Security= 
==1NC Shell== 
**[Insert Links]**

**Framing governmental support for infrastructure in terms of security authorizes violent mechanisms of disciplinary control, framing humanity in terms of logistical life while destroying the quality of life and instantiating the wholesale destruction of entire populations.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reid 8 </span>(Julian – lecturer in International … Cavelty and Kristian Soby Kristensen, p. 178-179)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Therefore, the contemporary reification of … of such a line of questioning.</span>

**Alternative – reject the affirmative’s security discourse – their ontological claim to national security necessitates war, problematic truth claims, and mechanization of society**
**Burke 07**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, 2 [Anthony, Johns Hopkins University Press, Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason, page @ http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html]</span>
__The epistemology of violence__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">I describe … </span>__global rule of the political.__

**the alt is a sequential process that cannot be permuted**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cheeseman & Bruce 96</span>(Graeme Cheeseman, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, 1996, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional …</span><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> by those who are the targets of its criticisms.</span>__</span>

==2NC Top Level== 
===VTL=== 
**VTL outweighs**
**Burke** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">200</span>**7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> lecturer at Adelaide University School of History and Politics, “What security makes possible,” Working Paper 2007 p.11-12</span>
__Even if threats are credible …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">individual nor international security exist’:</span>

===Ontology=== 
**Enframing is a pre-requisite to macropolitical violence**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, Theory and Event, 10.2, Muse)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">My argument here, whilst normatively … and violence? Will our thought? </span>

===Kappeler=== 
**Fiat’s bad – it obscures our responsibility and disengages us from real politics**
<span class="Heading2Char">Kappeler 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We are the war' does … therefore subject to human control.</span>

===Bilgin=== 
**Beginning discussions at the intellectual level is more productive**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Bilgin 5</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> Assistant Prof of International Relations at Bilkent University, REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE, p54-</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">The point is that </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">a broader … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">‘threats to the future’ (Kubálková 1998: 193–201).</span>

===AT: Perm=== 
**initial framing precludes change – forgetting the 1AC is necessary**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bleiker 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roland, Senior Lecturer and Co-Director – Rotary Centre of International Studies in Peace and Conflict Resolution, The Zen of International Relations, Ed. Chan, Mandeville, and Blieker, p. 38-39)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The power to tell stories … </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">practice of real world politics</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

===AT: Stats/Positivism=== 
**Metalevel statistical analysis and theories about international system are always impossible**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven </span>**Bernstein et al**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">., Richard Ned Lebow, Janice Gross Stein and Steven Weber, University of Toronto, The Ohio State University, University of Toronto and University of California at Berkeley. European Journal of International Relations </span><span class="Heading2Char">2000</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; 6; 43.</span>
__A deep irony is embedded …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in past or future time.5</span>

===Realism=== 
**2. Realism is only inevitable now because of existing power structures – challenging dominant discourses via the alt’ overcomes realism**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grondin 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David, master of pol sci and PHD of political studies @ U of Ottowa “(Re)Writing the “National Security State”: How and Why Realists (Re)Built the(ir) Cold War,” http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/ieim/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Neorealist and neoclassical </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">realism offer</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">national security conduct; it constitutes it.</span>__</span>

**3. Realism is bad research - modifications have made it incoherent and ruined its scientific rigor**
**dr.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A. (Annette) Freyberg </span>**Inan**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Associate Professor, the Director of the Master's Program in Political Science, Univ of Amsterdam, PhD in Political Science at the University of Georgia, USA. Her MA degrees in Political Science and English were obtained at the University of Stuttgart in her native Germany. Editorial Board Member: International Studies Review, Globalizations Journal, Advisory Board Member: Millennium, What Moves Man: The Realist Theory of International Relations and Its Judgment of Human Nature 20</span>**04**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a recent article, John </span>__Vasquez …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">accuracy of the theory” (ibid.). (148-150)</span>

**4. The aff’s neo-conservative dominance isn’t realist – it’s triumphalist. Turning realism into an uncritical heroic narrative undermines democratic self-limitation and criticism crucial for better policy-making**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span>**__WILLIAMS__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prf. @ Aberystwyth </span>**__‘5__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “What is the National Interest? The Neoconservative Challenge in IR Theory” //European Journal of Int’l Relations// 11 p. 326-327</span>
__Morgenthau warned that appeals to national greatness …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and their political significance are more than apparent. </span>

==Link Debate== 
===1NC Economy=== 
**Attempting to save the global economy from disaster is a liberal order-building method of security**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span><span class="Heading2Char">Neocleous,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Critique of Political Economy, Brunel University</span><span class="Heading2Char">, 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 94-97, Published 2008)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But 'social security' was clearly … economic - from the communist threat. </span>

===2NC Economy=== 
**Framing the economy in terms of security discourse leads states to implement protectionist or unreliable policies, destroying the economic strength they attempt to preserve**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ronnie </span>Lipschutz<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Director – Politics PhD Program, UC Santa Cruz, </span>1998<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. “On Security” p. 11-12</span>
__The ways in which the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">state from trying to gain. </span>

**US economic liberalism is part of the security – insecurity paradox – it undercuts other countries’ sense of security, causing a self-fulfilling prophecy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ronnie D. </span><span class="Heading2Char">Lipschutz ‘95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Assistant Professor of … product cycle – undermines the ability.</span>

===1NC Terrorism=== 
**Their representations of terrorism lend ideological support to mass violence**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span><span class="Heading2Char">Collins</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="Heading2Char">Assistant Professor of Global Studies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at St. Lawrence University, </span><span class="Heading2Char">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ross </span><span class="Heading2Char">Glover</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Visiting </span><span class="Heading2Char">Professor of Sociology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at St. Lawrence University, </span><span class="Heading2Char">2002</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Collateral Language, p. 6-7)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Real Effects of Language… </span>__the physical effects of violence.__

**Attempts to secure the world from terrorism replicate their harms**
<span class="Heading2Char">Mitchell, 05</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew , Stanford U. Humanities Post-Doctoral Fellow, "Heidegger and Terrorism," [[http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/brill/rip;jsessionid=7macig5us3335.victoria|Research in Phenomenology]], Volume 35, Number 1, 2005 , pp. 181-218)</span>
__Government and politics are simply … do not die, they perish.__
===2NC Terrorism=== 
**The affirmative's depiction of an __imminent terrorist threat__ transforms the real people who commit terrorist acts into "**//the terr-ists//**," a group of __shadowy monsters__ who are always just around the corner plotting their next attack. This framing of the terrorist threat sidesteps the question of __why they hate us__ and normalizes a state of __permanent national insecurity__.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chernus 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ira, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-Director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 2006 (</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Published by Paradigm Publishers, ISBN 1594512752, p. 3-4)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Monsters are not real-unless you believe in them</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> another round of attack and counterattack</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span></span>

**Second—this __turns the case__ – the affirmative’s framing of the terrorist threat entrenches a __cycle of insecurity__ that makes attacks __more likely__.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chernus 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ira, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-Director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 2006 (</span>//Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Published by Paradigm Publishers, ISBN 1594512752, p. 3-4)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The structure is simple enough. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A battle is raging between </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">United States will suffer another grievous attack.</span>__</span></span></span>

===2NC Terrorism – AT Perm/Flawed Epistemology=== 
**Studies framing terrorism as a threat of national security are epistemologically flawed – they skip the basic understanding of terrorism and deck any attempts at coherent inquiry**
<span class="Heading2Char">Jarvis, 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lecturer, Politics and International Relations @ Swansea University (Lee, “The Spaces and Faces of Critical Terrorism Studies,” Security Dialogue vol. 40, no. 1, February)</span>
__Although there may exist strategic__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … of a critical terrorism studies agenda.</span>
===2NC Terrorism – Biological Terrorism Link=== 
**Bioterror discourse is grounded in a sense of vulnerability that turns the advantage – alt is key to solve**
**Kittelsen, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Researcher for the Security programme @ the International Peace Research Institute in Oslo (Sonja, “Conceptualizing Biorisk: Dread Risk and the Threat of Bioterrorism in Europe,” Security Dialogue vol. 40, no. 1, February)</span>
__The dread__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that the prospect </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the constitution of ‘security’ itself.</span>


===2NC Terrorism – Nuclear Terrorism Link=== 
**Threat of nuclear terrorism authorizes a blank check of militarism**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joseph </span>**Masco**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof. of Anthro @ U-Chicago, </span>**‘6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [//The Nuclear Borderlands//, p. 328-332]</span>
__The post-Cold War period …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">absent or all too present. </span>

**Construction of “super-terrorism” or nuclear terror is designed to create fear**
<span class="Heading2Char">Jackson 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard, Lecturer in International Security at the Centre for International Politics at the University of Manchester “The Politics of Threat and Danger: Writing the War on Terrorism*” Paper Presented at the British International Studies Association (BISA) 29th Annual Conference, University of Warwick, 20-22 December, 2004, [[http://cadair.aber.ac.uk/dspace/bitstream/2160/1947/1/BISA-2004-Paper.pdf]])</span>
__The initial construction of the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">fear a terrorist-induced nuclear holocaust. </span>

===2NC Terrorism – Cyberterrorism Link=== 
**Worries about cyber-terror are rooted in its opposition to geographies of exclusion**
**Bialasiewicz et al 7, -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Luiza Bialasiewicz a, David Campbell b, Stuart Elden b, Stephen Graham b, Alex Jeffrey c, Alison J. Williams a Department of Geography, Royal Holloway University of London, United Kingdom b International Boundaries Research Unit, Geography Department, Durham University, Durham, DH1 3LE, United Kingdom c School of Geography, Politics and Sociology, University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, United Kingdom, “Performing security: The imaginative geographies of current US strategy” Political Geography 26 (2007) 405e422, via sciencedirect.com)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Abroad, </span>__one contradiction between the … exclusion and their moral cartography.__


===1NC Hegemony=== 

**US Leadership ensures destruction – we only believe it is stabilizing because we refuse to question it**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Anthony </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Burke</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Lecturer @ School of Politics & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">‘7</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[//Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence//, p. 231-2]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Yet the first act </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">in </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">own reality . . We're history's actors."</span></span></span>
===2NC Hegemony=== 
**Pursuit of hegemony is a fantasy of control that relies upon construction of threatening Otherness --- this prompts resistance and create a permanent state of conflict**
**Chernus 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ira, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program – University of Colorado-Boulder, Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin, p. 53-54)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The end of the cold … and enact the neocon story. </span>

**Culminates in planetary annihilation**
**Dallymayr 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Fred, Professor of Philosophy and Political Science – University of Notre Dame, “The Underside of Modernity: Adorno, Heidegger, and Dussel”, Constellations, 11(1))</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What Dussel here calls asymmetry … </span>**__a button and annihilate the earth__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.26</span>

===2NC Hegemony – AT War Decreasing (Pinker)=== 

**Pinker’s analysis is useless – entirely ignores role of population growth, which accounts for all of the change he cites**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 12/7 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Julian Flynn, Financial Times, “Angel thesis hangs on overpopulation,” </span><span class="time" style="font-size: 8pt;">December 7, 2011, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/30bf527c-1cfb-11e1-a134-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1h1lHx8gS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sir, Gideon Rachman’s article “The … </span><span class="Underline">Damocles hanging over our planet</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

=Nukespeak= 
==1nc shell== 

**a. the aff’s ‘at risk attitude’ normalizes fear**
**furedi 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frank Furedi (professor of Sociology at The university of Kent) 4 April 2007 <”The only thing we have to fear is the ‘culture of fear’ itself” [[http://frankfuredi.com/pdf/fearessay-20070404.pdf]]> Pg6-8</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>__the autonomisation of fear …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">today’s harsh regime of uncertainty.</span>

**b. the affirmative focus’s on managing feelings of fear in order to offset their damaging impact. they can’t solve because their intent is to factor us into their risk calculus in order to sway action by affirming what we should and should not fear. this action prevent focus on the source of the problem and only rejection solves**
**furedi 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frank Furedi (professor of Sociology at The university of Kent) 4 April 2007 <”The only thing we have to fear is the ‘culture of fear’ itself” [[http://frankfuredi.com/pdf/fearessay-20070404.pdf]]> Pg 5</span>
__When we witness the autonomisation …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">further encouraged and culturally affirmed.</span>

**c. the scenario for nuclear escalation and war they imagine will always be prevented by deterrence. however, the <span class="highlight">fear</span> of nuclear war is used to justify a state security apparatus that freezes the social**
**baudrillard 81** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jean, “Simulacra and Simulation” p. 32-35]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The apotheosis of simulation: </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-the whole world is satellized).</span>

**d. the true damage of nuclear weapons is not the war that could result, but in the <span class="highlight">fear</span> and mental destruction that <span class="highlight">fear</span> of them demands. instead of trying to avoid the catastrophe, we must break the mental chains of deterrence.**
**baudrillard 81** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jean, “Simulacra and Simulation” p. 32-35]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because </span>__an explosion is always a **…**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Besides, therein lies terrorism's ambiguity.</span>
==2nc overview== 

**d. ontological damnation**
**burke 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anthony Burke, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason” Theory & Event, 10.2, Project Muse</span>
<span class="UnderlinedTextChar">__This essay develops a theory about …__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">will continue to be made.</span>

**e. their knowledge comes from a destructive process which means their advantages are not true**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">their knowledge comes from a destructive process – the images devour the real content and create ambivalence and alienation from actual events.</span>
**baudrillard in 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jean, “Simulacra and Simulation” p. 80-81]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The third hypothesis is the … </span>__and stupidity of the masses.__

==at—framework== 
**kappeler card**
<span class="Heading2Char">kappeler 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We are the war' does … therefore subject to human control.</span>
==at—perm== 

**7. the perm is literally impossible – radical thought and belief in the illusion of the real cannot be combined with an objective interpretation of the world. claiming they go together is a dangerous illusion that destroys both.**
**__Baudrillard in 95__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jean, April 19, "Radical … </span>__message, and thus already sacrificed__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**8. the medicalization of death prevents other ways of viewing death- ther perm fails**
**Banerjee 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Albert Banerjee, 2005 (Department of Sociology, York University; “Speaking of Death: Representations of Death in Hospice Care” pg 1)</span>
__The medicalization of death has … of their own decaying selves”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (154).</span>

**Any critical argument that is combined with reality is immediately robbed of its critical potential – the events are infinitely adaptable, and cynically morph to support any theory that might challenge them, which destroys the effectiveness of the theory. to be effective, the criticism must remain on the margin.**
**__Baudrillard in 95__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jean, April 19, "Radical … figure for an unpredictable event. </span>

=Empire= 
==1NC Shell== 

**a. transportation networks are a ruse to further the spread of Empire**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Antonio </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof @ Duke;Prof @ Collège International de Philosophie, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2000 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Empire” Harvard University Press, http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/negri/</span>
__The structure and management of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a nonhierarchical and noncentered network structure.29 </span>

**b. empire guarantees the ultimate form of biopower – no other impact scenario compares, as the fear of nuclear war has reduced all other wars to limited conflicts**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Antonio </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof @ Duke;Prof @ Collège International de Philosophie, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2000 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Empire” Harvard University Press, http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/negri/</span>
Imperial control<span class="Underline"> operates </span>through<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> three … </span>of the power of life.

**c. the alternative – vote neg to reject Empire hidden behind the discourse of safety and security by becoming the militant**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Antonio </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof @ Duke;Prof @ Collège International de Philosophie, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2000 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Empire” Harvard University Press, http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/negri/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the postmodern era, </span><span class="Underline">as … rebellion into a project of love. </span>

==Top Level 2NC Cards== 
**at the center of Empire is capital, dismantling human life into economic gains and losses. Only direct confrontation can solve**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Antonio </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof @ Duke;Prof @ Collège International de Philosophie, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2000 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Empire” Harvard University Press, http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/negri/</span>
__Capital and sovereignty__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> might well … </span>__theory of the capitalist state.__

**ontological damnation**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Antonio </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof @ Duke;Prof @ Collège International de Philosophie, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2000 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Empire” Harvard University Press, http://www.angelfire.com/cantina/negri/</span>
__To say that imperial sovereignty … , the deontological mode of being.__

**their knowledge comes from an imperial center which ignores dependency – means the alt is a prerequisite to political engagement**
**Angus**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 20</span>**04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ian, “Empire, Borders, Place: A Critique of Hardt and Negri's Concept of Empire,” p. 3)</span>
__The epistemic issue is not a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">centrism – </span>__remains an imperial critique__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Aff gets coopted – kills agency**
**Shaffer, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– teaches at the Southwestern University School of Law. B.S., Law, 1958, University of Nebraska, Lincoln; B.A., Political Science, 1959, and J.D., 1961, University of Chicago; Member, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colorado and Nebraska State Bars (Butler, April 14, //How We Lost Our Souls,// http://www.lewrockwell.com/shaffer/ shaffer214.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The central theme of my writing has been to… "understanding" as a way of making the world free, peaceful, and productive. </span>

**fiat’s bad – it obscures our responsibility and disengages us from real politics**
<span class="Heading2Char">Kappeler 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We are the war' does not mean that the …choice and therefore subject to human control.</span>

==AT—Rorty== 

**Rorty/Rawls relies on the politics of avoidance that necessitates violence and exclusion**
**Hardt & Negri**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>**94**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Associate Prof. of literature @ Duke & indy researcher, former prisoner @ Rebibbia Prison, Rome, former lecturer of polisci @ Paris Univ. former Prof. of polisci @ Univ. of Padua, “Labor of Dionysus: A critique of state-form,” p. 236-39)</span>
__Society is a system of communication … order an efficient, administered society.__


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]