[[toc]]
=Aff= 
==1AC Grapevine== 
===**Inherency**=== 
**Contention 1 is Inherency**

**Russia is fully committed to a Bering Strait tunnel—US support is the key barrier and the project would permanently cement US-Russian relations**
**MOSCOW NEWS 2012**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Tunneling to America?” April 28, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Russia's Urals oil has been over $100 a barrel for a year now</span>
AND
could be **welded in steel**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
===Winter is Coming=== 
**Contention 2 is Winter is Coming**

**US-Russian relations are adrift – the plan is key to rebuilding them**
**Kirakofe, 6-24**
[Clifford, professor at the Virginia Military Institute, US, Russia need to see their ties grow, Global Times, 6-24-2012, [[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml]]]
In the interest of world peace and development, not to mention the US national
AND
and show marked improvement whatever the outcome of the US elections in November.

**The aff cements a permanent peace of US-Russia cooperation**
**Barry 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [ Mark P. Barry, //Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace,// October 04, 2011//,// “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]], DMintz]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The Russian Impact on the U.S. and Canada</span>
Aside from building an ACRL, which would be the foundational stage, stages two
AND
__It should be seen as a great global task of permanent peace-building.__

**US-Russia relations solve nuclear war, terrorism, proliferation, resource prices, peaceful Chinese rise, international trade, and the US economy**
**Allison & Blackwill, ’11** [Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]]]
That central point is that Russia matters a great deal to a U.S
AND
.S. success, or failure, in advancing our national interests.


**We control all major impacts—everything is easier with Russian cooperation and harder without it**
**CFR TASK FORCE 2006** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf)</span>
Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, American presidents and policymakers have believed that
AND
to protect that arrangement if relations with Russia are on a positive track.


===**Integration**=== 
**Contention 3 is Integration**

**The plan leads to global rail integration—solves all war**
Craig <span class="Heading4Char">**Burroughs** </span>2/11/**<span class="Heading4Char">10</span>** (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]], I.P.)
The benefits to international relations between countries on the two continents should also be substantial
AND
to consider armed conflict as a solution to real or perceived international injustices.

**Power links will be laid before the railroad is even completed—this alone pays for the project**
**BURROUGHS** 20**09** (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprisesfast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)
The rail right-of-way can also be utilized to generate other income
AND
a substantial flow of cash to aid in completion of the overall project.
**Connecting the US and Russian electrical grids spills over to unite the entire planet—solves energy availability and makes growth sustainable**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GENI 11</span> (**9-6-11, Global Energy Network Institute, "Global Energy Grid - The Details," [[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/issues/overview/grid.shtml#existingtechnology|http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/issues/overview/grid.shtml#existingtechnology]]//[08.21.12]//LL)
All the earth's resources were catalogued, and human survival needs were assessed, giving
AND
most important opportunities to further the cause of environmental protection and sustainable development.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan leads to global energy connectivity unifying the globe and stabilizing population and preventing environmental catastrophe. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Buckminster </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fuller</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, Buckminster Fuller started the idea of the strait and created a project manifesto which is updated constantly, June 6, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, [[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/buckminster_fuller/criticalpath.shtml]], LSV</span>
The world energy network grid will be responsible for the swift disappearance of planet Earth's
AND
not need the invention and development of new technologies." (Page 253)


**Wasteful development destroys biodiversity and causes massive dieoff**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CFBD, 12</span>** (Center for Biological Diversity, “Overpopulation and Extinction,” Date is last modified, May 31, http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/campaigns/overpopulation/extinction/index.html)
We’re in the midst of the Earth’s sixth mass extinction crisis. Harvard biologist E
AND
been assessed to determine their global threat level, but it is severe.


**Biodiversity is key to check extinction**
**Watson 6** (Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17, http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html)
The facts are clear. More plant and animal species will go through extinction within
AND
and with it the horrendous and mind numbing specter of massive human destruction.

===<span style="color: #000000;">Plan Text</span>=== 
**<span style="color: red;">Text: The United States federal government should offer Alaskan land grants for the completion of the Bering Strait tunnel within the maritime boundary of the United States.</span>**

===**Solvency**=== 
**Contention 4 is Solvency**
**Land grants provide necessary access and guarantees for private investment.**
Craig **<span class="Heading4Char">Burroughs </span>**2/11/**<span class="Heading4Char">10</span>** (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]], I.P.)
The big question in any multi-nation infrastructure project of this scope is “
AND
They would also be earning interest on their investment in the railroad’s bonds.


**Direct federal involvement is key to access – outsourcing or delegating the plan will lock the US out**
**Soloview 12**
[Fyodor, Founder, Interbering.com, Interbering Breifing, 6-25-2012, [[http://www.interbering.com/]]]

Alaska will benefit from a through rail connection linking the continental U.S.
AND
armies linked up across the river Elba in Germany to end a war.


**US and Russia are key—other countries will get on board**
**RUSSIA & CIS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWSWIRE 2012**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Russian Railways chief believes tunnel can be built under Bering Strait,” April 9, lexis)</span>
__A decision on building a tunnel under the Bering Strait to connect the railway infrastructures of Russia and North America should be made before 2017__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Russian Railways President Vladimir Yakunin told journalists on Saturday.</span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">**__America should be on the one side and Russia on the other__**__. China is interested as well__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and so </span>__multilateral cooperation is **inevitable**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">," he said.</span></span>


**Shipping will pay for itself**
**BURROUGHS 2009** (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises
fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)
Once an intercontinental rail link connects the vast and rapidly growing Chinese economy directly with
AND
an integrated worldwide railway network should prove itself very rapidly after its opening.


==1AC Greenhill== 
**See above**
==**1AC St. Mark's**== 
**Russia is fully committed to a Bering Strait tunnel—US support is the key barrier and the project would permanently cement US-Russian relations**
**MOSCOW NEWS 2012**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Tunneling to America?” April 28, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Russia's Urals oil has been over $100 a barrel for a year now</span>
AND
could be **welded in steel**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
===Winter is Coming=== 
**Contention 2 is Winter is Coming**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Obama’s Russian reset is doomed to failure – establishing economic ties is the only way to maintain relations</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">RFE/RL 10-3</span>**-12 (Radio Free Europe, Radio Liberty, "Lavrov Says Russia-U.S. 'Reset' Can't Last Forever," [[http://www.rferl.org/content/lavrov-says-us-russia-reset-cant-last-forever/24727492.html]]//[10.04.12]//LL)
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has warned that Russia and the United States should do
AND
instigating continuing the fratricidal war" at the cost of thousands of lives.

**US-Russian relations are adrift – the plan is key to rebuilding them**
**Kirakofe, 6-24**
[Clifford, professor at the Virginia Military Institute, US, Russia need to see their ties grow, Global Times, 6-24-2012, [[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml]]]
In the interest of world peace and development, not to mention the US national
AND
and show marked improvement whatever the outcome of the US elections in November.

**The aff cements a permanent peace of US-Russia cooperation**
**Barry 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [ Mark P. Barry, //Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace,// October 04, 2011//,// “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]], DMintz]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The Russian Impact on the U.S. and Canada</span>
Aside from building an ACRL, which would be the foundational stage, stages two
AND
__It should be seen as a great global task of permanent peace-building.__


**Good Russian relations key to US soft power, climate, international trade, resource prices, regional conflicts, and the economy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Collins and Rojansky 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> James [appointed the director of the Russia and Eurasia Program in January of 2007 He is an expert on the former Soviet Union, its successor states, and on the Middle East Ambassador Collins was the U.S. ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001. Prior to joining the Carnegie Endowment, he served as senior adviser at the public law and policy practice group Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, LLP] and Matthew [deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment. An expert on U.S. and Russian national security and nuclear weapons policies, his work focuses on relations among the United States, NATO, and the states of the former Soviet Union. Additionally, he is responsible for Carnegie’s Ukraine Program and analysis of politics and security in Eastern Europe, including Belarus and Moldova. From 2007–2010, Rojansky served as executive director of the Partnership for a Secure America (PSA). Founded by former Congressman Lee Hamilton (D-IN) and former Senator Warren Rudman (R-NH), with a group of two dozen former senior leaders from both political parties, PSA seeks to rebuild bipartisan dialogue and productive debate on U.S. national security and foreign policy challenges. While at PSA, Rojansky orchestrated high-level bipartisan initiatives aimed at repairing the U.S.–Russia relationship, strengthening the U.S. commitment to nuclear arms control and nonproliferation, and leveraging global science engagement for diplomacy] “Why Russia Matters” //The Carnegie Endowment// 8/18/10 accessed: 6/29/12 </span>[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2010/08/18/why-russia-matters/3si]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> DR</span>
A year and a half after Barack Obama hit the "reset" button with
AND
and has interests beyond its own borders, it will have no choice.

===Integration=== 
See above

===Plan Text=== 
See above

===Solvency=== 
See above


=Neg= 
==1NC DoD Tradeoff DA== 
**U.S. economic recovery is sluggish- no excess income in the squo**
**Ritenour 8-14**-12 (Shawn, professor of economics @ Grove City College, contributor to The Center for Vision & Values, and author of “Foundations of Economics: A Christian View, Forbes, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/realspin/2012/08/14/americas-alleged-economic-recovery-is-slower-than-japans-during-its-lost-decade/]]//[08.30.12]//LL)
In light of claims that we’ve been in an economic recovery since late 2009,
AND
The economic statistics begin to reveal more reality and less make-believe.


**Sequestration cuts makes defense budget sensitive, but the funding is still manageable**
**Pollin and Garrett-Peltier 5-9****-12** (Robert Pollin and Heidi Garrett-Peltier, "Don't Buy the Spin: How Cutting the Pentagon's Budget Could Boost the Economy," [[http://www.thenation.com/article/167811/dont-buy-spin-how-cutting-pentagons-budget-could-boost-economy|http://www.thenation.com/article/167811/dont-buy-spin-how-cutting-pentagons-budget-could-boost-economy#]]//[08.15.12]//LL)
The Proposed Spending Cuts Are Modest Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has stated that the planned
AND
Afghanistan wars, the military cuts being considered are modest and easily reversible.


**Defense budget still on the chopping block post immediate cuts**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lobeck 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">- Yuma City Hall reporter (Joyce, “McCain: Required defense cuts 'devastating',” August 22, 2012, [[http://www.yumasun.com/articles/mccain-81232-defense-cuts.html]], Yama Sun)//KC//</span>
//While in Yuma Wednesday, U.S. Sen. John McCain expressed grave//
//AND//
//people responsible, and Congress needs to do a better job of oversight.”//


//**Cuts being discussed are reversible- Obama has a deficit reduction plan- only new spending would spark the cuts**//
//**Wilson 2012** - (Doug, August 7, 2012, “Who's to blame for defense spending cut threat?” CNN, http://www.cnn.com/2012/08/07/opinion/wilson-sequestration-pentagon-cuts/index.html)//KC

President Barack Obama has made clear he doesn't want to see these cuts happen next
AND
from the Pentagon on how to work together to prevent it from happening.


<span style="color: red;"><insert specific link></span>


**DOD funding is key to deter China, North Korea, Iran, and maintain overall hegemony**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Maginnis 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">- retired Army lieutenant colonel, and a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television (Robert, [[http://www.humanevents.com/2011/10/20/catastrophic-defense-cuts-seen-as-tipping-point-of-us-military-supremacy/]], “‘Catastrophic’ Defense Cuts Seen as Tipping Point of U.S. Military Supremacy,” 10/20/2011)//KC</span>
National security leaders warn that proposed military spending reductions by the deficit-reduction super
AND
fact create a tipping point for America as the world’s leading military power.



==Neg Strats== 
===Grapevine=== 
**Rd. 1 (vs. HSR)**
DOD Tradeoff on case (2NR)
Privatization CP (2NR)
Elections - Obama Good
Case Defense

**Grapevine Rd. 4 (vs. Port Dredging)**
T - net increase
Elections - Obama Good
DOD Tradeoff (2NR)
Private CP (2NR)
Case Defense (2NR)

===Greenhill=== 
**Rd. 1 (vs. Inland Waterways)**
T - transportation infrastructure
Elections - Obama Good
DOD Tradeoff (2NR)
Privates CP
Case Defense (2NR)

**Rd. 2 (vs. Military Ocean Terminal)**
Elections - Obama Good
Security K (2NR)
Case:
- Heg Bad
- Defense (2NR)

**Rd. 5 (vs. Cray-Cray Aff)**
(Check Rob and Reid Wyde from Highland Park, it's the one with Camus)
Framework (2NR)
Cap K
Truth Defense
CP
**Text: The United States federal government should affirm an ethic of the wanderer whilst taking a firm policy action.**

===**St. Mark's**=== 
**Rd. 2 (vs. PPSP)**
Elections - Obama Good
T - T/I not military (2NR)
Delay CP (do the plan on November 7)
Case:
- Heg Bad
- Defense

**Rd. 3 (vs. Multiverse)**
Framework (2NR)
Elections - Obama Good
Cap good (unloaded the boat) (2NR)


**Rd. 6 (vs. MEMS)**
T - military
DoD Disad
Elections (2NR)
Delay CP (do the plan on November 7)
Case defense (2NR)