=**AFFIRMATIVE**= 
[[toc]]
==**1AC**== 

**Plan: The United States Congress should pass the Realize America’s Maritime Promise Act.**
=== === 
===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Trade</span>=== 

**Panama and Suez Canal expansions mean that port dredging is key to handling larger ships**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Martin__**, Ph.D. founder and president of Martin Associates, **__2010__** (John C., conducted more than 500 port economic, planning, and marketing studies for seaports, terminal operators, and ocean carriers in the United States, Asia, Europe, and South America “Sailing into the New Century”, //Industry Today//, Volume 13, Issue 2, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F343)//MM|http://industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F343)]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">With the deployment…</span> the global economy.

**Current lack of funding results from misappropriation of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__IAM Journal, 2012__** (IAM Journal for Fighting Machinists, “Modernize Our Nation’s Ports and Waterways, Support the RAMP Act,” Volume 17, No. 5, May, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.goiam.org/images/articles/news/iam-journal/recent-journals/may/iamjournal_may2012.pdf]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The IAM is supporting…</span> RAMP Act is long overdue.”

**That results in inadequate channel depths**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__The Beacon, 2011__** (Maritime Exchange newspaper services serving Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, “Ramping up RAMP”, Maritime Exchange, Winter, Vol. 21, No. 4, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.maritimedelriv.com/Publications/Beacon/issues/Winter2011/Winter_2011_Beacon.pdf)/MM|http://www.maritimedelriv.com/Publications/Beacon/issues/Winter2011/Winter_2011_Beacon.pdf)]]</span>
“As a result… can be changed.

**And light loaded ships eviscerate the shipping industry – the impact is irreversible**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Weakley__**, President of the Lake Carriers' Association, **__2008__** (James H. I., Testimony Before the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, April 30, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)</span>
The Importance of Dredging… lose its efficiencies.

**Shipping is key to the economy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Nagle__**, President and Chief Executive Officer for the American Association of Port Authorities, former Director of International Trade for the National Coal Association and Assistant Secretary for the Coal Exporters Association, previously worked in the Office of International Economic Research at the U.S. Department of Commerce, **__2012__** (Kurt, “Seaports and the US Economy THE Essentials for a Maritime Nation,” May 7, http://www.transportationsummit.com/documents/s11-BillHanson.pdf)</span>
For centuries seaports… growth, increasing vessel size, etc.

**Trade deficit wrecks the economy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Weller__**, Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress, and Reidenbach, Special Assistant for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, **__2011__** (Christian E. and Luke, “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion,” February, http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2011/02/pdf/high_tech_trade_exec_summ.pdf)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The United States faces… and long-term economic growth//.//</span>

**Studies prove economic crises lead to war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Royal__**, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, **__2010__** (Jedediah, //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives//, pg. 213-215)</span>
Less intuitive is how periods… ancillary to those views.

**And the ballooning trade deficit causes protectionism and tit-for-tat retaliation**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Hufbauer__** et al, **__2010__** (Gary, Senior Fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, Woan Foong Wong, and Jared Woollacott, “US Protectionist Impulses in the Wake of the Great Recession,” March, http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/hufbauer201003.pdf)</span>
The U.S. unemployment rate…<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> instances of U.S. protectionism.</span>

**And the US must lead on trade – otherwise, protectionism spirals globally**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Panitchpakdi__**, </span>Security General of the UN Conference on Trade and Development, **__2004__** (Supachai, American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, February 26, http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm
The second point is that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">strengthening…</span> but by the absence of rules.

**Protectionism quickly escalates to global war – multiple scenarios**
**__Panzer__**, New York Institute of Finance, **__2008__** (Michael, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Continuing calls for curbs…</span> of a new world war.

**Interdependence prevents war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Griswold__**, Director of the Cato Institute Center for Trade Policy Studies, **__2005__** (Daniel, “Peace on Earth? Try Free Trade Among Men,” December 28, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5344]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
As one little-noticed headline… can produce best at home.

**Even if trade generically doesn’t solve conflict, free trade does—protectionism is a try or die**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__McDonald__</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, Professor of International Relations at the University of Texas at Austin, </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__2004__</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Patrick, “Peace through Trade or Free Trade?,” //The Journal of Conflict Resolution//, Vol. 48, No. 4, August)</span>
Theoretically, this shift enables… post-World War II era.

**Increasing exports solves conflicts—best statistics**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__Polachek, 2006__</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Solomon, Distinguished Professor of Economics and Political Science at Binghamton University; Carlos Seiglie, Professor of Economics and Chair of the Department; “Trade, Peace, and Democracy: An Analysis of Dyadic Dispute,” IZA Discussion Paper No. 2170, June, ftp://repec.iza.org/RePEc/Discussionpaper/dp2170.pdf)</span>
Using this methodology … are more inelastic. 

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">LNG</span>=== 

**Panama Canal expansion allows for US export of LNG to Europe**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Eaton__**, reporter for the //Houston Business Journal//, **__2012__** (Collin, “Economists differ on Panama Canal expansion's impact,” Houston Business Journal, May 29, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.bizjournals.com/houston/blog/money-makers/2012/05/economists-differ-on-panama-canal.html]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
Economists at a recent… a game-changer.

**But this requires port dredging**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Ebinger__**, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, et al., **__2012__** ("Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January, www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)</span>
The <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">successful export …</span> in shipping costs to Asia. 40

**Increasing US LNG exports breaks European dependence on Russia**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Ratner__**, specialist in energy policy, et al., **__2012__** (Michael, Paul Belkin, analyst in European affairs, Jim Nichol, specialist in Russian and Eurasian affairs, and Steven Woehrel, specialist in European Affairs, “Europe’s Energy Security: Options and Challenges to Natural Gas Supply Diversification,” //Congressional Research Service//, March 13, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42405.pdf)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span> 27 member-state European …oil-indexed natural gas prices.

**The Russian stranglehold on the European energy market prevents democratic reforms in Central Asia**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Baran__**, Director and Senior Fellow at the Center for Eurasian Policy at the Hudson Institute, **__2007__** (Zenyo, “EU Energy Security: Time to End Russian Leverage,” //The Washington Quarterly//, Autumn, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://ao.hudson.org/files/publications/07autumn_baran.pdf]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The lack of reliable … grip on Europe’s neighbors</span>.

**European energy independence forces Russian rapprochement with the West, while energy dependence splinters Europe and results in conflict**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Asmus__**, U.S. diplomat and political analysis, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs, **__2008__** (Ronald D., “Europe's Eastern Promise; Rethinking NATO and EU Enlargement,” Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb, Proquest)</span>
This accomplishment was …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">price for their passivity.</span>

**That escalates to nuclear war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__McDermott__**, specializes in Russian and Central Asian defense and security issues and is a Senior Fellow in Eurasian Military Studies, **__2011__** (Roger, “General Makarov Highlights the ‘Risk’ of Nuclear Conflict,” December 6, The Jamestown Foundation, Eurasia Daily Monitor, Vol. 8, Issue 221, http://www.jamestown.org/single/?no_cache=1&tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=38748)</span>
In the current … the victor (See EDM, December 1).


===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Agriculture</span>=== 

**The US is quickly losing its agricultural competitiveness – lack of port dredging creates inefficiencies**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Stallman__**, President of the American Farm Bureau Federation, **__2012__** (Bob, “US export industry in dire need of port updates,” //Southeast Farm Press//, March 30, http://westernfarmpress.com/government/us-export-industry-dire-need-port-updates?page=2)</span>
It may surprise …miss the boat.

**Lack of port capacity kills US grain exports**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Attavanich__**, Ph.D. candidate, et al, **__20__**</span>**__11__** (Witsanu, Bruce A. McCarl, Distinguished and Regents Professor, Stephen W. Fuller, Regents Professor, Dmitry V. Vedenov, Associate Professor, Zafarbek Ahmedov, Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Agricultural Economics, Texas A&M University, College Station Selected Paper prepared for presentation at the Agricultural & Applied Economics Association’s 2011 AAEA & NAREA Joint Annual Meeting July 24-26, “The Effect of Climate Change on Transportation Flows and Inland Waterways Due to Climate-Induced Shifts in Crop Production Patterns,” http://ageconsearch.umn.edu/bitstream/109241/2/AAEASelectedPaper_The%20Effect%20of%20Climate%20Change%20on%20Transportation%20Flows_13247.pdf)
Grain production plays …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transportation in agriculture</span> (Denicoff et al. 2010).

**That’s key to reduce food price volatility**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Torero__**, Division Director of the Markets, Trade, and Institutions Division at the International Food Policy Research Institute, **__2011__** (Maximo, “Food Prices: Riding the Rollercoaster,” 2011 Global Food Policy Report, International Food Policy Research Institute, http://www.ifpri.org/node/8436)</span>
Other factors. Today’s … few countries, such as rice.

**The impact is nuclear war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Klare__**, Professor of Peace and World Security Studies at Hampshire College and author of //Resource Wars and Blood and Oil//, **__2006__** (Michael, “The Coming Resource Wars,” March 7, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.tompaine.com/articles/2006/03/07/the_coming_resource_wars.php]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
Reid’s speech, delivered … these forms of conflict.

**Additionally, loss of competitiveness causes Brazil to fill in**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Leonard and Tsai__**, Associated Press Business Writers, **__2008__** (Christopher and Catherine, “US grain exports snagged by infrastructure delays,” //Associated Press//, August 25, http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/2008-08-24-3398820129_x.htm)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Some agribusiness groups …</span>from the economy.

**Specifically, Brazil pushes the US out of the soy market – this leads to Amazon deforestation**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Martin__**, Chicago Tribune staff reporter, **__2004__** (Andrew, “Brazil threatens U.S. soybean dominance,” //Chicago Tribune//, June 13, http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2004-06-13/news/0406140223_1_soybean-farmers-soybean-king-biggest-soybean)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Spurred by new …</span> the damage is done."

**The impact is extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Barry__**, President and Founder of Ecological Internet (EI), his rainforest conservation, climate protection and Internet campaigning have been supported by the MacArthur Foundation, Google Grants and many others, **__2005__** (Glen, “Ancient Amazon Rainforests Mowed for Soybean Farms,” June 11, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://forests.org/blog/2005/06/ancient-amazon-rainforests-mow.asp]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
The Amazon, the … are lost or diminished.



=NEGATIVE= 


==Disadvantages== 
===Elections=== 

Obama’s leading now, but it’s very close
Silver, 8/28<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">/2012 (Nate, founder and writer for the New York Times’ //FiveThirtyEight// blog, “Aug. 28: A Moment of Polling Clarity,” http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/28/aug-28-a-moment-of-polling-clarity/)</span>
At FiveThirtyEight, we’re usually consumed by how
AND
within the margin of error of the others.


Plan is political suicide – perception of wasteful spending and lack of public support
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Orski, Newsbrief, 12</span>
Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Finding</span> the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">resources to keep transportation </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

Fiscal discipline key- deficit concern is a top priority
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Pew Research Center, 12</span>
(Non-Profit think tank focused on public opinion polling, 1-23-12, Pew Research Center, “Public Priorities: Deficit Rising, Terrorism Slipping,” http://www.people-press.org/2012/01/23/section-1-the-publics-policy-priorities/ accessed 7-9-12, KGH)
Concern about the nation’s budget
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
concern about deficits has increased steadily since 2009<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

=====US-Russia Relations Scenario:===== 

Romney kills US-Russia relations
Larison 6/27 (Daniel Larison, contributing editor at The American Conservative and writes a column for The Weekonline, Ph.D. graduate from the University of Chicago, “U.S.-Russian Relations Would Get Much Worse Under Romney”, [[http://www.theamericanconservative.com/larison/u-s-russian-relations-would-get-much-worse-under-romney/]], 6/27/12, Bhattacharyya)
Putin might share some of that same distrust
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">that U.S.-Russian relations will deteriorate much more</span>////<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> than they have in the last year.</span>//

Relations key to solve U.S.-Russia war
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rumer, Strategic Forum, 2004 </span>
(Eugene, Strategic Forum, “Collision Avoidance: Us-Russian Bilatral Relations And Former Soviet States”, April 2004, NC)
The need for cooperation is dictated
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">gains the region has made since independence.</span>

Extinction
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Starr, 2006</span>
(Steven, “Total Global Nuclear Arsenal 2006 ˜ 27,000 Nuclear Weapons With ˜ 5,000 Mt Total Yield”, Fall 2006)

<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Today the U.S. and Russia </span>**</span>
AND
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">-on-warning status, are capable of doing.</span>**</span>

=====<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Iran Strikes Scenario: </span>**</span>===== 


Romney win guarantees Iran strikes

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Daily Kos, Editorial, April 16th</span>

(4-16-2012, The Daily Kos, //President Obama Versus Romney on Iran//, [[http://www.dailykos.com/story/2012/04/16/1083726/-President-Obama-versus-Romney-on-Iran]], accessed 7-4-2012, JKE)


To me, however the biggest contrast <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span> with needless terrorism alerts.


That causes multiple scenarios for global nuclear war

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hirsch, professor of Physics, University of California at San Diego, 6</span>

(Jorge, 4-22-2006, Centre for Research on Globalization, Nuking Iran, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=viewArticle&code=HIR20060422&articleId=2317]], accessed 7-5-2012, JKE)


JH: Iran is likely to respond <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… anybody has prevailed.</span>


===<span class="underline">Treasuries DA</span>=== 
Investor confidence in US debt is rebounding
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Businessweek****, 2012** (Daniel Kruger and Monami Yui, “China Adds Treasuries for Second Month on Reserve Growth,” April 16, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-04-16/china-adds-treasuries-for-second-month-on-reserve-growth)</span>
China remained the largest foreign U.S. creditor in February amid a rebound
AND
Asia, said signals official confidence in the strength of the economy’s expansion.

Spending kills investor confidence
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Buffalo News****, 2011** (“Warning from China: Washington must act to restore confidence in the U.S. economy”, August 29, http://www.buffalonews.com/editorial-page/buffalo-news-editorials/article537738.ece)</span>
Let’s say you are mortgaged to the hilt for your new home. And the
AND
them out in favor of men and women dedicated to serving the public.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Loss of confidence leads to runaway inflation and economic collapse**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Hagler**, Department of the Army Civilian, **2011** (J. Arthur, “National Security Implications of Long-Term Deficit Spending,” US Army War College, June 20, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/featured_articles/teaser1_1Jul11-SRP.htm)</span>
The government needs investor confidence, yet it can be difficult to sustain longterm.
AND
rates would rise and could plunge the world into another global financial crisis.

Decline causes global war
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Mead**, Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, **2009** (Walter Russell, “Only Makes You Stronger,” February 4, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.tnr.com/article/only-makes-you-stronger-0]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work;
AND
the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.


==Counterplans== 
===REITs CP=== 
Text: The United States Supreme Court should rule to expand the definition of Real Estate Investment Trusts to include transportation infrastructure investments.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**CP solves- spurs private funding support**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Rohatyn and Slater,__** former advisers to the former US transportation secretary, **__12__**</span>
(Felix and Rodney, 2/20/12, "America needs its own infrastructure bank," accessed 6/25/12, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/c61b2084-5bb3-11e1-a447-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1yqMKVMhg|http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/c61b2084-5bb3-11e1-a447-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1yqMKVMhg]], CNM)
Second, Congress can expand the definitions of Real Estate Investment Trusts (Reits)
AND
support could become financially viable, and more infrastructure projects could be supported.

Counterplan solves as well as the aff-court can mandate public policy changes.
**__Casper 76__** (Jonathon, Associate Professor of Political Science at Stanford University, “The Supreme Court and National Policy Making”, The American Political Science Review, March 1976, Vol. 71 No. 1, JSTOR)
The Court is frequently called upon to interpret the meaning of federal statutes, and
AND
course of public policy is excluded from con- sideration under Dahl's rules.

===SWF CP=== 
**Text:** The United States federal government should establish a national transportation infrastructure bank and encourage foreign direct investment in capitalizing the bank.


The counterplan encourages Global Public Investors to fund the plan – solves 100% of their advantages
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**__Goldstein__** **__et al, 2011__** (Gordon M. Goldstein, Senior Vice President; Rick Kimball, Managing Director, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Trustee, The Brookings Institution; Joel H. Moser, Partner, Bingham McCutchen LL; Raffiq Nathoo, Senior Managing Director, Blackstone Group; Vijaya Ramachandran, Senior Fellow, Center for Global Development; Darrell M. West, Vice President and Director, Governance Studies, Center for Technology Innovation; Daniel Zwirn, Managing Member, Zwirn Family Interests, Trustee, the Brookings Institution, “Rebuilding America: The Role of Foreign Capital and Global Public Investors,” Brookings Institution, March 11, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2011/03/11-sovereign-wealth-funds]])</span>
Driving Policies and Programs that Facilitate GPI Capital Deployment: The United States requires enhanced
AND
could further attract Global Public Investors to U.S. infrastructure development.

Sovereign wealth funds want to invest in an infrastructure bank – the counterplan avoids politics
**__SWF Institute, 2011__** (“Sovereign Wealth Funds Anticipate Possible American Infrastructure Bank,” September 8, [[http://www.swfinstitute.org/swf-article/sovereign-wealth-funds-anticipate-possible-american-infrastructure-bank/]])
In our estimate, sovereign wealth funds would look forward to the creation of an
AND
payments, there would most likely be increased sovereign investor interest and participation.



==Kritiks== 
===Complexity K=== 
The 1AC attempts to reduce as many effects to as few causes as possible by creating a simplistic and enclosed chain reaction of events culminating in a terminal impact. This reliance on reductionist theories of reality makes their explanations of the world useless for policymaking and produces more harm than good.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Srnicek**, PhD candidate in International Relations at the London School of Economics, currently working on dissertation demonstrating the significance of networks for understanding contemporary world politics, written for a number of journals, magazines and websites, editor for the forthcoming The Speculative Turn: Continental Materialism and Realism, **2010** (Nick, “Conflict Networks: Collapsing the Global into the Local,” Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, Issue 2)</span>
This leads us to the issue of interactions between actors. The standard natural science
AND
and provides concrete answers as to how the global interacts with the local.

This linear scenario-planning ignores complexity and taints their predictions, leads to conflict escalation and turns the case
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Jervis**, Professor of International Relations at Columbia University, **1997** (Robert, “Complex Systems: The Role of Interactions,” in Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, edited by David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University)</span>
Because actions change the environment in which they operate, identical but later behavior does
AND
not been too many accidents because they are operated with such care.25

The alternative is to reject linear scenario planning in favor of a complexity perspective – this results in better policy planning
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Rosenau**, Professor Emeritus of International Affairs at George Washington University, **1997** (James, “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs,” Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, edited by David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University)</span>
To acknowledge the limits of complexity theory, however, is not to assert that
AND
a guide both to comprehending a fragmegrated world and theorizing within its limits.