[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
Neg vs. College Prep LT

1NC: Elections, Colonization Tradeoff, ESA CP, Clean Coal/Storms CP
2NC: Advantage CP and Case
1NR: Politics
2NR: Advantage CP, Politics, Case
==Elections== 
**Obama will win—He controls the delegate count by 40—Prefer our state by state analysis to their generic polls**
**MSNBC 4/26**
[“First Thoughts: Obama maintains map edge”, Chuck Todd, Mark Murray, Domenico Montanaro, and Brooke Brower are staff writers for MSNBC’s First Read, 4/26/12, available online at http://firstread.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2012/04/26/11409166-first-thoughts-obama-maintains-map-edge?chromedomain=nbcpolitics&lite, accessed 4/26/12//Thur]
Obama maintains map edge: In our latest look at the 2012 presidential battleground map and the first since Mitt Romney became the presumptive GOP nominee, President Obama continues -- and has slightly added to -- his electoral-vote lead. There are 231 electoral votes in the Democratic column (either in the solid, likely, or lean categories), and there are 197 on the Republican side; 110 electoral votes are toss-up. In our previous NBC News map, which we released in late February, the Democratic advantage was 227-197. The only changes from February until now were that we moved New Hampshire from toss-up to Lean Dem; we moved Indiana from Likely GOP to Lean GOP; and we moved Georgia from Lean GOP to Likely GOP. Here’s our map: Solid Dem (no chance at flip): DC, DE, HI, ME (3 EVs) MD, MA, NY, RI, VT (70 electoral votes) Likely Dem (takes a landslide to flip): CA, CT, IL, WA (94) Lean Dem: ME (1 EV) MN, NH, NJ, NM, OR, MI, WI (67) Toss-up: CO, FL, NV, NC, OH, PA, VA (110) Lean GOP: AZ, IN, IA, MO, (38) Likely GOP (takes a landslide to flip): AL, AR, GA, LA, MS, MT, NE (1 EV), ND, SC, SD, TX (102) Solid GOP (no chance at flip): AK, ID, KS, KY, NE (4 EVs) OK, TN, UT, WV, WY (57) The Daily Rundown's Chuck Todd previews President Barack Obama's re-election campaign events. *** Breaking down the seven toss-up states: As you see above, we have seven states in the toss-up category: Colorado, Florida, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. And if we were to push some of these states -- based on polling, past performance, and what we’ve heard from the campaigns/parties -- we’d give a slight edge to Obama in Colorado and Pennsylvania, and we’d give a slight edge to Romney in North Carolina. And that leaves us with four pure toss-ups: Florida, Nevada, Ohio, and Virginia. One other point here: There aren’t enough toss-ups in the Midwest for Romney. He HAS to put Michigan and Wisconsin into play to put map pressure on Obama, especially if the GOP’s Hispanic problem continues to make the Western swing states uphill climbs.** 
Cutting the deficit is important to win the support of swing voters that are key to re-election hopes
Reuters **9/13/**11**[“Undecided swing voters key to Obama re-election” http://www.iol.co.za/dailynews/news/undecided-swing-voters-key-to-obama-re-election-1.1136818 Accessed 1/20/12 BMC]**
**Washington - President Barack Obama faces deep scepticism from swing voters who see the Republican party as more in tune with their concerns about government spending, according to a poll released on Tuesday. These undecided voters, who could determine whether Obama wins re-election next year, believe Republicans are more serious about reducing budget deficits and more aligned with them ideologically, according to the centrist Democratic think tank Third Way. The poll focused on voters who had backed Obama in the 2008 presidential election but voted for Republican candidates in the 2010 congressional elections. They make up about 20 percent of the electorate in the handful of hotly contested states that will likely dictate the outcome of the 2012 election. About 59 percent of these voters haven't decided whether they will vote for Obama or his Republican opponent, the poll found. Obama and his fellow Democrats could win their support by emphasising economic growth and painting Republicans as beholden to conservative Tea Party activists, said Third Way's Jim Kessler. “Obama needs to pull himself and his party closer to them and push the GOP farther away,” Kessler said in an interview. Obama is pushing a $450 billion job-creation bill in an effort to boost the economy and drive down the 9.1 percent unemployment rate as he faces low approval ratings and deep economic unease among voters. Many economists say higher government spending now would boost growth in the sputtering economy while lawmakers work on a long-term plan to tame the national debt. Swing voters do not agree with this view, the poll found. Half of those surveyed said reducing the deficit or scaling back regulations would be the most effective way to create jobs, while only 16 percent said that increased spending on construction and innovation would be the best approach. Those views line up with those held by congressional Republicans. However, swing voters largely back Obama's call to raise taxes on the wealthy to help reduce deficits, the poll found.**
Obama reelection will result in military strategy shift – key to containing China
McManus, 1/11 **(Doyle is a columnist for The Los Angeles Times. Copyright The Los Angeles Times, “Obama’s Proposed Cuts are Far from Dramatic” http://www.stltoday.com/news/opinion/guest-commentary-obama-s-proposed-defense-cuts-are-far-from/article_6fa3f930-3035-593a-a98c-dc2dc5a490a9.html)**
**The president has sought to lay out a global strategy on a shoestring, but it's a very large shoestring; that core budget will still amount to an average of about $560 billion a year for the next 10 years. And while his critics will charge that Obama is imposing radical cuts, most of what is proposed in the Defense Strategy Review, as it's officially named, sounds more like carefully calibrated moderation. The report says U.S. defense planning should now focus on Asia, especially the growing military power of China. But contrary to some early reports, it doesn't propose diminishing the U.S. commitment to policing the Middle East. The report says the United States hopes never to fight another long and costly counterinsurgency war like the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan — but it adds that the military should be prepared to fight that way again if it needs to. And, in a section that provoked some controversy, the report says the U.S. military should no longer be structured so it can fight two ground wars at the same time, something that has been a cornerstone of American defense rhetoric for decades. But it still says the United States should be ready to fight at least a war-and-a-half — one on the ground, the other mostly from the sea and the air.**
Extinction
Cheong 2k** (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -horror of horrors -raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China, 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization.
==CP== 

**Text: The United States federal government should fully fund and develop carbon sequestration technology. The United States federal government should require all new coal power plants to meet an “emission performance” standard that limits CO2 emissions to levels achievable with CCS systems, provide subsidies to plant developers that offset the cost differential between conventional plants and those with CCS, target regulatory and R&D efforts to implement CCS technology and define CCS systems as a Best Available Control Technology for new power plants under the Clean Air Act’s New Source Review program. The United States federal government should incorporate the EMP shielding infrastructure being developed by Transtector and PolyPhaser.**
**We reserve the right to clarify.**
**Carbon sequestration solves coal pollution which is the most important internal link to climate change—Moreover, only it recognizes that Demand is inevitable**
**Center for American Progress 8** (March, 2008, Center for American Progress, “Carbon Capture and Sequestration 101”,http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/03/ccs_101.html Accessed 1/3/12 BMC
There are many ways to meet growing consumer energy demand, including increased energy efficiency and greater reliance on renewable energy sources. Historically, a substantial portion of U.S. electricity has been generated by burning coal, which is an abundant domestic fuel. The Department of Energy has predicted that 145 gigawatts of new power from coal-fired power plants will be built by 2030. If these plants are built without emissions controls, they will result in additional CO2 emissions of 790 million metric tons per year. This will add significantly to total U.S. CO2 emissions and greatly magnify the challenge of combating global warming. CCS is the only known technology that would enable new coal plants to be built without an unacceptable increase in CO2 emissions.
**Tech to protect power grids and satellites possible now. Implementation key.**
**Protection Technology Group 10** (http://www.protectiongroup.com/Military)
Transtector and PolyPhaser provide a complete systems approach for the protection of communications systems and critical electronics from lightning and power anomalies. Our unique expertise in filter technologies enables us to provide a comprehensive portfolio of electromagnetic environmental effect (E3) hardening solutions including custom designs to fit your specific EMP - EMI protection needs.
Lightning strikes, solar storms, electromagnetic pulse and high power microwave weapons are serious threats to electronic equipment. Transtector and PolyPhaser’s high performance filter technologies protect communications, satellite and electrical power systems from all major power quality threats including:
• EMI (electromagnetic interference)
• EMP (electromagnetic pulse)
• HEMP (high altitude electromagnetic pulse)
• SREMP (surface radiated electromagnetic pulse)
• NEMP (nuclear electromagnetic pulse)
• SGEMP (system generated electromagnetic pulse)
• HRM (high-powered microwave)
• Geomagnetic storms
• Tempests
• Internally generated transients
• Power grid anomalies
• Lightning induced transients
PolyPhaser and Transtector’s proven technology is engineered to withstand the most extreme physical environments and EMP - EMI conditions, as well as meet industry and military standards wherever applicable. For over 10 years, top defense contractors have relied on our knowledge and design experience to meet the requirements set by military standards.

**EMP shielding possible.**
**Christian Science Monitor 5** (http://www.csmonitor.com/2005/1219/p25s02-stct.html)
Some of the literature on EMPs gives the impression that such an event would fry every computer in the country, that planes would fall out of the sky, and that society would be thrust back into 19th-century technological backwardness. Such claims may be far-fetched, but EMPs are nevertheless a deadly serious issue. Fortunately, protecting electronics and critical infrastructure against an EMP is doable. It involves enclosing every electronic component with a metallic cage that blocks out electromagnetic waves. Sound impossible? Actually, electronic components already enjoy some form of shielding against electromagnetic interference. Federal Communications Commission standards require it. Such shielding is designed to prevent everyday electromagnetic radiation from entering and/or exiting the device. Your computer contains this shielding, from metal housings down to the little metal coverings soldered to your motherboard. There even are housings the size of rooms or buildings that protect sensitive equipment inside. Without electromagnetic shielding, many electronic devices would not work properly.
=Round 2= 
Aff vs. St. George's MV

TOC Solar Sails Update (New Economic Leadership and Warming Modules

**Contention one is exploration**
**First— Mars colonization is a reality— Mars has resources, there’s water, and we can generate energy, grow crops, and reproduce— thickening the atmosphere solves all other solvency deficits— Mars is comparatively the best place to go**
Robert **Zubrin**, Master of Science degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering from the University of Washington, President of the Mars Society, **2011**
[“Towards a Theory of Space Power”, February 2011, National Defense University Press, available online at http://www.ndu.edu/press/spacepower.html, accessed 8/27/11Thur]
Among extraterrestrial bodies in our solar system, Mars is singular in that it possesses all the raw materials required to support not only life, but also a new branch of human civilization. This uniqueness is illustrated most clearly if Mars is contrasted with the Earth's Moon, the most frequently cited alternative location for extraterrestrial human colonization. Unlike the Moon, Mars is rich in carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen, all in biologically readily accessible forms such as carbon dioxide gas, nitrogen gas, water ice, and permafrost.2 Carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen are only present on the Moon in parts per million quantities. Oxygen is abundant on the Moon, but only in tightly bound oxides such as silicon dioxide, ferrous oxide, magnesium oxide, and alumina oxide, which require very high-energy processes to reduce.3 Current knowledge indicates that if Mars were smooth and all its ice and permafrost melted into liquid water, the entire planet would be covered with an ocean over 200 meters deep.4 This scenario contrasts strongly with the Moon, which is so dry that if concrete were found there, lunar colonists would mine it to get the water out. Thus, if plants could be grown in greenhouses on the Moon (an unlikely proposition, as the Moon's 2-week-long dark spell is unsuitable for most plants, and the absence of any atmosphere would make necessary very thick glass for solar flare shielding), most of their biomass material would have to be imported. The Moon is also deficient in about half the metals of interest to industrial society (copper, for example), as well as many other elements of interest such as sulfur and phosphorus. Mars has every required element in abundance. Moreover, on Mars, as on Earth, hydrologic and volcanic processes have occurred that are likely to have consolidated various elements into local concentrations of high-grade mineral ore. Indeed, the geologic history of Mars has been compared to that of Africa, with very optimistic inferences as to its mineral wealth implied as a corollary.5 In contrast, the Moon has almost no history of water or volcanic action, with the result that it is basically composed of trash rocks with little differentiation into ores that represent useful concentrations of anything interesting. Power could be generated on either the Moon or Mars with solar panels, and here the advantages of the Moon's clearer skies and closer proximity to the Sun than Mars roughly balance the disadvantage of large energy storage requirements created by the Moon's 28- day light/dark cycle. But if the desire was to manufacture solar panels so as to create a self-expanding power base, Mars holds an enormous advantage, as only Mars possesses the large supplies of carbon and hydrogen needed to produce the pure silicon required for making photovoltaic panels and other electronics. Also, there is no geologically purified source of silicon dioxide, such as sand, on the Moon. In addition, Mars has the potential for wind-generated power, while the Moon clearly does not. But both the Sun and wind offer relatively modest power potential—tens or at most hundreds of kilowatts here or there. To create a vibrant civilization, a richer power base is needed, and Mars has this both in the short and medium term in the form of its geothermal power resources, which offer the potential for large numbers of locally created electricity-generating stations in the 10 megawatt (10,000 kilowatt) class. In the long term, Mars will enjoy a power-rich economy based upon exploitation of its large domestic resources of deuterium fuel for fusion reactors. Deuterium is five times more common on Mars than it is on Earth, and tens of thousands of times more common on Mars than on the Moon.6 But the biggest problem with the Moon, as with all other airless planetary bodies and proposed artificial free-space colonies, is that sunlight is not available in a form useful for growing crops. A single acre of plants on Earth requires 4 megawatts (MW) of sunlight power; a square kilometer needs 1,000 MW. The entire world put together would not produce enough electric power to illuminate the farms of the state of Rhode Island. Growing crops with electrically generated light is economically hopeless. But natural sunlight cannot be used on the Moon or any other airless body in space unless the walls on the greenhouse are thick enough to shield out solar flares, a requirement that enormously increases the expense of creating crop land. Even accomplishing this requirement would do no good on the Moon, because plants will not grow in a light/dark cycle lasting 28 days. But Mars has an atmosphere thick enough to protect crops grown on the surface from solar flares. Therefore, thin-walled inflatable plastic greenhouses protected by unpressurized ultraviolet-resistant hard-plastic shield domes can be used to rapidly create crop land on the surface. Even without the problems of solar flares and a month-long diurnal cycle, such simple greenhouses would be impractical on the Moon as they would create unbearably high temperatures. On Mars, in contrast, the strong greenhouse effect created by such domes would be precisely what is necessary to produce a temperate climate inside. Such domes up to 50 meters in diameter are light enough to be transported from Earth initially, and they eventually could be manufactured on Mars out of indigenous materials. Because all the resources to make plastics exist on Mars, networks of such 50- to 100-meter domes could be manufactured and deployed rapidly, opening up large areas of the surface to both shirtsleeve human habitation and agriculture. Looking further into the future, it will eventually be possible for humans to thicken Mars' atmosphere substantially by forcing the regolith to outgas its contents through a deliberate program of artificially induced global warming. Once that has been accomplished, the habitation domes could be almost any size, as they would not have to sustain a pressure differential between their interior and exterior. In fact, once that has been done, it will be possible to raise specially bred crops outside the domes. The point is that unlike colonists on any other known extraterrestrial body, Martian colonists will be able to live on the surface, not in tunnels, and move about freely and grow crops in the light of day. Mars is a place where humans can live and multiply to large numbers, supporting themselves with products of every description made out of indigenous materials. Mars is thus a place where an actual civilization, not just a mining or scientific outpost, can be developed. And it is this civilization, grown in size and technological potency on a frontier planet with a surface area as large as all the continents of Earth put together, that will both radically tip the balance among those who remain behind on Earth and provide the pioneers with the craft and outlook required to push the human reach much further. Thus, for our generation and those soon to follow, Mars is the new world. The nation that settles it is one whose culture, values, social forms, and ideas will provide the point of departure for the further development of human civilization as our species expands outward from its planet of origin to the innumerable others awaiting us in the infinite reaches of space.

**Second— Solar Sails can get us there— We have the technology now, and they’re better than all other alternatives**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. Masters in nuclear physics, Ph.D. in plasma physics, fellow of AIAA, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
In the previous chapters, we described the space rocket engines, how they work, their role in past and current spaceflight, and their limitations. We have also shown that the rocket is not the only propulsion type that could be employed in space. Among the types of space propulsion currently under investigation, one is particularly promising: the solar sail. This propulsion mode is not conceptually new, even though only recent technology gives it a good chance to make a quality jump in spaceflight. Its principles and how to efficiently use a sail vehicle could be understood better by reviewing what happened about four millennia ago on the seas and by referring to the progress of physics in the 19th and 20th centuries. Early pioneers of solar sailing conceived a space use of sails in the first half of the 20th century, whereas the first technical publications and space designs began in the second half. But let us proceed in chronological order.

**Third— Independent of Mars— Solar sails are key to deep space exploration that solves extinction— Sundiving allows solar system escape**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. as previously cited, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
One might suppose that a low-thrust Sun-pushed gossamer spacecraft will have no application in ventures testing the fringes of galactic space. One would be wrong! In a maneuver called ``sundiving'' by science-fiction authors Greg Benford and David Brin, the sailcraft is initially placed in a parabolic or elliptical solar orbit with a perihelion (point of closest solar approach) as close to the Sun as possible (Fig.9.3). At perihelion, the sail is pointed toward the Sun, and the craft is ejected from the solar system. Contemporary, Earth-launched sail technology seems capable of achieving solar-system escape velocities as high as 50 kilometers per second (km/s), with or without the giant-planet gravity assists utilized to accelerate Pioneer 10 and 11 and Voyager 1 and 2. The solar-system escape velocities possible utilizing the sundiver maneuver are far in excess of the velocities of the Pioneers and Voyagers. Within a flight-time of about two decades, a sail-launched extrasolar probe could reach the heliopause the boundary between solar and galactic influence at 200 astronomical units (AU) or so from the Sun and measure local field strengths and particle densities. If the probe can survive another few decades not impossible in light of Pioneer's and Voyager's longevity data could be returned from the inner focus of the Sun's gravitational lens at 550 AU, which would provide a check on Einstein's general relativity theory as a mission bonus. The possibility to fly by the Sun and get a high escape speed from the solar system is much more than a science-fiction idea. We have a strict mathematical theory, coming from many years of scientific research, which tells us that even without resorting to far future technologies, a sufficiently light sailcraft could be controlled in such a way as to reach the solar gravitational lens with a speed of 120 km/s, at least. Of course, emerging technologies could do excellent things for the designs of whole sailcraft and help us to transform such theoretical results into reality. Some may conservatively argue that probes to the edges of interstellar space may have little relevance to terrestrial life. But, since mass-extinction events on Earth may be linked to galactic influences, a few such interstellar craft may well be launched as our sail technology improves. And these early flights will only be the start of the sail's flirtation with the galactic abyss. Because the solar sail is scalable, we may view these early efforts as humanity's first true starships.

**Fourth— Colonization is an insurance policy against extinction— Every second we delay colonization of space costs one hundred trillion potential human lives.**
Nick **Bostrom**, British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow in the Faculty of Philosophy at Oxford University, **2003**
[“Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” preprint of an article in Utilitas, Volume 15, Number 3, Available Online at http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html, Accessed 01-03-2009]
As I write these words, suns are illuminating and heating empty rooms, unused energy is being flushed down black holes, and our great common endowment of negentropy is being irreversibly degraded into entropy on a cosmic scale. These are resources that an advanced civilization could have used to create value-structures, such as sentient beings living worthwhile lives. The rate of this loss boggles the mind. One recent paper speculates, using loose theoretical considerations based on the rate of increase of entropy, that the loss of potential human lives in our own galactic supercluster is at least ~10^46 per century of delayed colonization.[1] This estimate assumes that all the lost entropy could have been used for productive purposes, although no currently known technological mechanisms are even remotely capable of doing that. Since the estimate is meant to be a lower bound, this radically unconservative assumption is undesirable. We can, however, get a lower bound more straightforwardly by simply counting the number or stars in our galactic supercluster and multiplying this number with the amount of computing power that the resources of each star could be used to generate using technologies for whose feasibility a strong case has already been made. We can then divide this total with the estimated amount of computing power needed to simulate one human life. As a rough approximation, let us say the Virgo Supercluster contains 10^13 stars. One estimate of the computing power extractable from a star and with an associated planet-sized computational structure, using advanced molecular nanotechnology[2], is 10^42 operations per second.[3] A typical estimate of the human brain’s processing power is roughly 10^17 operations per second or less.[4] Not much more seems to be needed to simulate the relevant parts of the environment in sufficient detail to enable the simulated minds to have experiences indistinguishable from typical current human experiences.[5] Given these estimates, it follows that the potential for approximately 10^38 human lives is lost every century that colonization of our local supercluster is delayed; or equivalently, about 10^31 potential human lives per second. While this estimate is conservative in that it assumes only computational mechanisms whose implementation has been at least outlined in the literature, it is useful to have an even more conservative estimate that does not assume a non-biological instantiation of the potential persons. Suppose that about 10^10 biological humans could be sustained around an average star. Then the Virgo Supercluster could contain 10^23 biological humans. This corresponds to a loss of potential equal to about 10^14 potential human lives per second of delayed colonization. What matters for present purposes is not the exact numbers but the fact that they are huge. Even with the most conservative estimate, assuming a biological implementation of all persons, the potential for one hundred trillion potential human beings is lost for every second of postponement of colonization of our supercluster.[6]

**Fifth— Asteroid strikes are plausible and cause extinction— Solar Sails are key to block them**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. Masters in nuclear physics, Ph.D. in plasma physics, fellow of AIAA, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Although Mars exploration has captured the hearts and minds of the public, altering orbits of some near-Earth objects (NEOs) of asteroidal or cometary origin may be of much greater terrestrial significance. There are thousands of these bodies scattered between the orbits of Venus and Mars. And it is known that they occasionally whack Earth, with disastrous consequences. The most famous of these impacts occurred about 65 million years ago in the Yucatan region of Mexico. Eons before the Mayan rulers sported in the warm waters of the Caribbean, the tremendous fires and ash from the impact of this 10-kilometer object may have helped cause the demise of the dinosaurs and the rise of mammals to ascendancy. But smaller objects, such as the 100-meter-radius object that impacted in Tunguska Siberia in 1908 with the force of a 20-megaton hydrogen bomb, strike much more frequently than NEOs of the dinosaur killer's size at intervals of few centuries or less. Although in principle there is a certain (low) risk of Earth-NEO collisions in the course of centuries, do not panic; unlike our ancestors, we can do something about this threat, taking responsibility for our own future. Although nuclear explosives are certainly an option to divert a NEO targeting Earth, sails present a much more elegant option. A large, thin solar sail deployed at an NEO would increase both the reflectivity and the effective area of the NEO, allowing for a decades-duration alteration in the NEO's orbit, converting a direct hit on Earth into a near miss.

**Sixth—Even if the plan results in death of 99% of the world solving long term extinction outweighs**
Jason **Matheny**, Ph.D. Candidate in the Department of Health Policy and Management at the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, **2007**
[“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Number 5, Available Online at http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007_orig-articles/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html, Accessed 04-13-2009]
In a similar vein, the philosopher Derek Parfit (1984) wrote: I believe that if we destroy mankind, as we now can, this outcome will be much worse than most people think. Compare three outcomes: 1. Peace 2. A nuclear war that kills 99% of the world’s existing population 3. A nuclear war that kills 100% 2 would be worse than 1, and 3 would be worse than 2. Which is the greater of these two differences? Most people believe that the greater difference is between 1 and 2. I believe that the difference between 2 and 3 is very much greater.... The Earth will remain habitable for at least another billion years. Civilization began only a few thousand years ago. If we do not destroy mankind, these thousand years may be only a tiny fraction of the whole of civilized human history. The difference between 2 and 3 may thus be the difference between this tiny fraction and all of the rest of this history. If we compare this possible history to a day, what has occurred so far is only a fraction of a second. Human extinction in the next few centuries could reduce the number of future generations by thousands or more. We take extraordinary measures to protect some endangered species from extinction. It might be reasonable to take extraordinary measures to protect humanity from the same.19 To decide whether this is so requires more discussion of the methodological problems mentioned here, as well as research on the extinction risks we face and the costs of mitigating them.20

**Seventh— U.S. action is key— The first to settle gets sole control of land distribution and resource development**
Rhawn **Joseph**, Syndicated Author, Ph.D. **2010**
[“Marketing Mars: Financing the Human Mission to Mars and the Colonization of the Red Planet”, Journal of Cosmology, Vol 12, August 2010, available online at http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars110.html, accessed 8-23-11Thur]
Although the Space Treaty does not bar private ownership of "celestial bodies", this does not mean that someone can simply say: "I own Mars". Legal precedent requires possession. Consider, for example, maritime salvage law (also known as Admiralty and Maritime Law, and the Law of Salvage), which explicitly states that to claim ownership, the party making the claim must first make contact with and secure the property which must be beyond or outside a nation's national territory (Norris, 1991; Shoenbaum, 1994). In terms of "salvage" the original owner is entitled to a percentage of whatever is recovered. In the case of Mars, there are no original owners (and if there were, they are long dead and gone). Therefore, although some may argue that the 1967 treaty bars national ownership of Mars, the treaty does not apply to private ownership. This means that those who first arrive on Mars, may claim Mars (or all areas of Mars explored by humans) as private property. They may also sell portions of this property to other private parties or corporations. What might humans of Earth pay to own an inch or acre of Mars? Traditionally, mineral resources within national territory, belong to the government ruling that territory. Corporations and individuals must license the right to extract and sell those resources. Therefore, if those who first take possession of Mars form a government, they may claim ownership of all mineral and other resources (e.g. minerals, metals, gemstones, ores, salt, water). However, in the early history of the United States, private owners owned both "surface rights" and "mineral rights" and they had the right to sell, lease, or give away these rights. According to the Mars Mineral Spectoscropy Database of Mount Holyoke College, a wide variety of over 50 minerals may exist on Mars. Gold, silver, platinum, and other precious metals are likely to exist in abundance above and below the Martian surface; spewed out by volcanoes, and produced by ancient hydrothermal activity and circulating goundwater which acted as a concentrater. Therefore, once humans land on Mars, Martian mineral rights can be sold to the highest bidders, and Martian real estate can be sold by the inch or acre, with all these funds going to support the Human Mission to Mars and the colonization of the Red Planet.

**Eighth— Mars colonization revitalizes the economy—open immigration, sale of real estate, and innovation**
**Zubrin**, as previously cited, **1996** [Robert, aerospace engineer Ph.D. in Nuclear Engineering from Washington, “The Case for Colonizing Mars”, July/August 1996, http://www.nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-colonize.htmlThur]
We have examined the prospects for colonizing Mars, addressing the question of its economic viability. We have shown, that of all bodies in the solar system other than Earth, Mars is unique in that it has the resources required to support a population of sufficient size to create a new branch of human civilization. We have seen that despite the fact that Mars may lack any resource directly exportable to Earth, Mars' orbital elements and other physical parameters gives a unique positional advantage that will allow it to act as a keystone supporting extractive activities in the asteroid belt and elsewhere in the solar system. We have examined the potential of relatively near-term types of interplanetary transportation systems, and shown that with very modest advances on a historical scale, systems can be put in place that will allow individuals and families to emigrate to Mars at their own discretion. Their motives for doing so will parallel in many ways the historical motives for Europeans and others to come to America, including higher pay rates in a labor-short economy, escape from tradition and oppression, as well as freedom to exercise their drive to create in an untamed and undefined world. Under conditions of such large scale and open immigration, sale of real-estate will add a significant source of income to the planet's economy. However the greatest source of Martian wealth, and the greatest benefit of its existence to the terrestrial world, will be as a pressure cooker for invention and innovation of every type. In analogy to frontier America but going well beyond it, Mars will be a society of self-selected immigrants, operating in a harsh, labor-short environment in which practical innovation and technological acumen will be at a premium. Licensing on Earth of the inventions created under conditions of necessity on Mars will bring vast amounts of income to support the development of the Red Planet, even as these same inventions continue to raise terrestrial living standards and destabilize tendencies that would otherwise exist on Earth towards technological and social stagnation. What the Mediterranean was to the Greeks, what the New World was to the Western Europeans, Mars will be to the pioneering nations of the next several centuries; the engine of progress of the coming era. As America showed in the 19th Century, such an engine of can pull far more than its own weight.

**Finally—US economic leadership creates an incentives framework that prevents these wars from going nuclear—isolationism causes them**
**Mandelbaum ‘5** – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005
[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 224]
At best, an American withdrawal would bring with it some of the political anxiety typical during the Cold War and a measure of the economic uncertainty that characterized the years before World War II. At worst, the retreat of American power could lead to a repetition of the great global economic failure and the bloody international conflicts the world experienced in the 1930s and 1940s. Indeed, the potential for economic calamity and wartime destruction is greater at the outset of the new century than it was in the first half of the preceding one because of the greater extent of international economic interdependence and the higher levels of prosperity—there is more to lose now than there was then—and because of the presence, in large numbers, of nuclear weapons.

**Contention two is the sun**

**Subpoint A) Solar Storms**

**Initially note— A massive solar storm will hit in 2012— The solar system is passing through a interstellar energy cloud exciting the sun and causing storms— Prefer our evidence citing NASA, the National Academy of Science and astrophysicists**
**Coup Media Group 2011**
[“NASA Issues 2012 Warning and Possible End of The World 2 Years Ago”, Coup Media Group, 2/1/11, available online at http://coupmedia.org/astro-physics/nasa-issues-2012-warning-and-possible-end-of-the-world-0102, accessed 8/23/11Thur]
In light of recent news, the following information is paramount. On July 14, 2010 we learned that our sun is passing through an interstellar energy cloud which excites/energizes the sun. NASA, along with The National Academy of Science and other world renowned scientist are so concerned about this up and coming solar maximum in late 2012, that way back in March 10, 2006 NASA issued a solar storm warning (in writing) for 2012. What NASA omitted in their 2006 solar storm warning is what prompted NASA in the first place to issue a 2012 solar storm warning four years in advance? Then in 2010, NASA again warns the general population of a pending solar storm, telling the population to get ready for a once in a lifetime solar storm. Despite that news agencies and websites like this one are beginning to cover this developing story, no high government official has yet to stick his or her neck out to make an official announcement about the catastrophic implications as to allow the global population to begin preparing. The following scientific data revealed by Alexei Dmitriev further supports NASA’s original 2012 solar storm warning issued back in March of 2006. Astrophysicist Alexei Dmitriev says that both Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 satellites reveal that our sun, as well as our entire solar system, is now moving into an interstellar energy cloud. Opher, a NASA Heliophysics Guest Investigator from George Mason University says this interstellar energy cloud is turbulent. Dmitriev explains that this cloud of energy is exciting the atmospheres of our planets and especially our sun. As this interstellar energy cloud continues to excite/charge the sun, it causes the sun to become more active, resulting in greater output from the sun. IE: Bigger and more frequent solar storms and CME’s resulting in the Carrington effect. This interstellar cloud of electrical energy is also absorbed by the Earth, and scientist have found that it results in more earth quakes, all while dramatically effecting our weather here on earth. When asked how long will it take our sun to pass through this interstellar energy cloud, Dr. Dmitriev replied, “I don’t know. But If I had to guess, I would say somewhere between two thousand to three thousand years.” This interstellar cloud is a wispy band of charged particles through which our solar system is slowly moving through. When Dr. Dmitriev was asked what are the implications of all this for earth he replied, “Global catastrophe! Not in tens of years from now, but in ones of years” …in that this global catastrophe is basically right around the corner setting the stage for NASA’s latest solar storm warning 2012-2013.

**Second— Solar storms crush the grid and lead to blackouts**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. as previously cited, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
There are other, more down-to-earth impacts spawned by these storms, especially for those living at northern latitudes. Recall that charged particles moving through a magnetic field will experience force acting upon them. So also will a moving magnetic field induce an electric current in a wire. Electrical utility wires (particularly those hanging from telephone poles at northern latitudes) will feel the effect of the solar storm as Earth's magnetic field is compressed, varying in intensity with time. This changing magnetic field induces current flow in the wires, creating spurious currents that knock out transformers and otherwise disrupt or shut down the transmission of electrical power. This is a real effect and it has happened.

**Third— Blackouts jack the economy.**
**Fox Business,** 01-28-**2009**
[“Blackouts and the Electricity Grid: What's to Come,” Byline Lauren Covello, January 28th, Available Online at http://www.foxbusiness.com/story/markets/blackouts-electric-grid-whats-come/, Accessed 02-13-2009]
Blackouts -- on a large or small scale -- can deal a devastating blow to businesses and the greater economy, as well as jeopardize the health and safety of those affected. The massive blackout that rippled through the Northeast in 2003, for example, resulted in a loss of hundreds of billions of dollars for the economy (approximately $1 billion for New York City alone) and contributed to the deaths of at least 11 people across eight states and Canada.

**Fourth— Solar storms crush the global economy— They kill GPS systems and the ability to send information across the world— This means telecommunication, cable and shipping all collapse**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. as previously cited, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Companies and whole industries use the global positioning system and other satellite assets to accurately manage their inventories and track shipments. Corporate managers plan their business strategy and make decisions based on where certain products or materials are located at any given time. With a sudden loss in this capability, millions or even billons of dollars might be jeopardized. Cable television, now estimated to be in 68 percent of television-equipped U.S. households, is also at risk. After all, the cable only carries the television signal from your local cable company to your living room. The cable company gets the television signals from satellites located about 36,000 kilometers above the equator. If the satellites go out, the cable companies go out of business.

**Fifth— Economic decline risks global wars in every region of the world— the probability is high**
Niall **Ferguson**, Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University, **2009**
[“The Axis of Upheaval,” Foreign Policy, February 16th, Available Online at http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/02/16/ the_axis_of_upheaval?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full, Accessed 04-15-2010]
The Bush years have of course revealed the perils of drawing facile parallels between the challenges of the present day and the great catastrophes of the 20th century. Nevertheless, there is reason to fear that the biggest financial crisis since the Great Depression could have comparable consequences for the international system. For more than a decade, I pondered the question of why the 20th century was characterized by so much brutal upheaval. I pored over primary and secondary literature. I wrote more than 800 pages on the subject. And ultimately I concluded, in The War of the World, that three factors made the location and timing of lethal organized violence more or less predictable in the last century. The first factor was ethnic disintegration: Violence was worst in areas of mounting ethnic tension. The second factor was economic volatility: The greater the magnitude of economic shocks, the more likely conflict was. And the third factor was empires in decline: When structures of imperial rule crumbled, battles for political power were most bloody. In at least one of the world's regions -- the greater Middle East -- two of these three factors have been present for some time: Ethnic conflict has been rife there for decades, and following the difficulties and disappointments in Iraq and Afghanistan, the United States already seems likely to begin winding down its quasi-imperial presence in the region. It likely still will. Now the third variable, economic volatility, has returned with a vengeance. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's "Great Moderation" -- the supposed decline of economic volatility that he hailed in a 2004 lecture -- has been obliterated by a financial chain reaction, beginning in the U.S. subprime mortgage market, spreading through the banking system, reaching into the "shadow" system of credit based on securitization, and now triggering collapses in asset prices and economic activity around the world. After nearly a decade of unprecedented growth, the global economy will almost certainly sputter along in 2009, though probably not as much as it did in the early 1930s, because governments worldwide are frantically trying to repress this new depression. But no matter how low interest rates go or how high deficits rise, there will be a substantial increase in unemployment in most economies this year and a painful decline in incomes. Such economic pain nearly always has geopolitical consequences. Indeed, we can already see the first symptoms of the coming upheaval. In the essays that follow, Jeffrey Gettleman describes Somalia's endless anarchy, Arkady Ostrovsky analyzes Russia's new brand of aggression, and Sam Quinones explores Mexico's drug-war-fueled misery. These, however, are just three case studies out of a possible nine or more. In Gaza, Israel has engaged in a bloody effort to weaken Hamas. But whatever was achieved militarily must be set against the damage Israel did to its international image by killing innocent civilians that Hamas fighters use as human shields. Perhaps more importantly, social and economic conditions in Gaza, which were already bad enough, are now abysmal. This situation is hardly likely to strengthen the forces of moderation among Palestinians. Worst of all, events in Gaza have fanned the flames of Islamist radicalism throughout the region -- not least in Egypt. From Cairo to Riyadh, governments will now think twice before committing themselves to any new Middle East peace initiative. Iran, meanwhile, continues to support both Hamas and its Shiite counterpart in Lebanon, Hezbollah, and to pursue an alleged nuclear weapons program that Israelis legitimately see as a threat to their very existence. No one can say for sure what will happen next within Tehran's complex political system, but it is likely that the radical faction around President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will be strengthened by the Israeli onslaught in Gaza. Economically, however, Iran is in a hole that will only deepen as oil prices fall further. Strategically, the country risks disaster by proceeding with its nuclear program, because even a purely Israeli air offensive would be hugely disruptive. All this risk ought to point in the direction of conciliation, even accommodation, with the United States. But with presidential elections in June, Ahmadinejad has little incentive to be moderate. On Iran's eastern border, in Afghanistan, upheaval remains the disorder of the day. Fresh from the success of the "surge" in Iraq, Gen. David Petraeus, the new head of U.S. Central Command, is now grappling with the much more difficult problem of pacifying Afghanistan. The task is made especially difficult by the anarchy that prevails in neighboring Pakistan. India, meanwhile, accuses some in Pakistan of having had a hand in the Mumbai terrorist attacks of last November, spurring yet another South Asian war scare. Remember: The sabers they are rattling have nuclear tips. The democratic governments in Kabul and Islamabad are two of the weakest anywhere. Among the biggest risks the world faces this year is that one or both will break down amid escalating violence. Once again, the economic crisis is playing a crucial role. Pakistan's small but politically powerful middle class has been slammed by the collapse of the country's stock market. Meanwhile, a rising proportion of the country's huge population of young men are staring unemployment in the face. It is not a recipe for political stability. This club is anything but exclusive. Candidate members include Indonesia, Thailand, and Turkey, where there are already signs that the economic crisis is exacerbating domestic political conflicts. And let us not forget the plague of piracy in Somalia, the renewed civil war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the continuing violence in Sudan's Darfur region, and the heart of darkness that is Zimbabwe under President Robert Mugabe. The axis of upheaval has many members. And it’s a fairly safe bet that the roster will grow even longer this year. The problem is that, as in the 1930s, most countries are looking inward, grappling with the domestic consequences of the economic crisis and paying little attention to the wider world crisis. This is true even of the United States, which is now so preoccupied with its own economic problems that countering global upheaval looks like an expensive luxury. With the U.S. rate of GDP growth set to contract between 2 and 3 percentage points this year, and with the official unemployment rate likely to approach 10 percent, all attention in Washington will remain focused on a nearly $1 trillion stimulus package. Caution has been thrown to the wind by both the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. The projected deficit for 2009 is already soaring above the trillion-dollar mark, more than 8 percent of GDP. Few commentators are asking what all this means for U.S. foreign policy. The answer is obvious: The resources available for policing the world are certain to be reduced for the foreseeable future. That will be especially true if foreign investors start demanding higher yields on the bonds they buy from the United States or simply begin dumping dollars in exchange for other currencies. Economic volatility, plus ethnic disintegration, plus an empire in decline: That combination is about the most lethal in geopolitics. We now have all three. The age of upheaval starts now.

**Sixth— These wars will escalate and include nuclear and biological weapons.**
Phil **Kerpen**, Policy Director for Americans for Prosperity—an organization of grassroots leaders who engage citizens in the name of limited government and free markets on the local, state and federal levels, **2008**
[“From Panic to Depression?,” The National Review, October 28th, Available Online at http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=OWQ3ZGYzZTQyZGY4ZWFiZWUxNmYwZTJiNWVkMTIxMmU=, Accessed 10-30-2008Thur]
It’s important that we avoid all these policy errors — not just for the sake of our prosperity, but for our survival. The Great Depression, after all, didn’t end until the advent of World War II, the most destructive war in the history of the planet. In a world of nuclear and biological weapons and non-state terrorist organizations that breed on poverty and despair, another global economic breakdown of such extended duration would risk armed conflicts on an even greater scale.

**Seventh Solar storms crush readiness and leave the U.S. vulnerable— They lose access to spy and military satellites**
Giovanni **Vulpett**i **et al**. as previously cited, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Perhaps most importantly, the loss of our military and spy satellites would leave whole countries vulnerable to a surprise attack. Knowing that the spy satellite infrastructure is ``down'' might be a very tempting opportunity for an adversary to take advantage of.

**Eigth— Military readiness deters global war**
**Spencer, 2000**
[Jack, Research fellow at the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies; September 15th, “The Facts About Military Readiness” The Heritage Foundation http://www.heritage.org/Research/MissileDefense/BG1394.cfm]
Military readiness is vital because declines in America's military readiness signal to the rest of the world that the United States is not prepared to defend its interests. Therefore, potentially hostile nations will be more likely to lash out against American allies and interests, inevitably leading to U.S. involvement in combat. A high state of military readiness is more likely to deter potentially hostile nations from acting aggressively in regions of vital national interest, thereby preserving peace.

**Ninth— Solar sails solve— Extended exploration capability is key to monitoring the sun— Current technology can’t get past the ecliptic**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**, as previously cited, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Solar sails are especially effective at performing missions that otherwise require a large amount of propellant. A particularly propulsive-intense maneuver is required to change the orbital inclination of a spacecraft, whether it orbits the earth, another planet, or the sun. The orbit's inclination is simply a measure of the angle the orbit plane makes with respect to some reference plane, which usually is either Earth's equator or the ecliptic.(Note that the ecliptic is a plane, not an orbit, although the terms earth orbit and ecliptic often are used interchangeably.) Moving from the initial launch orbit to another ``angle'' in orbit is very difficult, and conventional propulsion systems are limited in performing this maneuver by the amount of fuel they can carry. Taking advantage of a solar sail's virtually unlimited ability to provide thrust, scientists are eager to place a spacecraft into a highly inclined orbit around the Sun in order to study what happens near its poles. Current observations of the Sun are limited to spacecraft launched from Earth, which remain nearly in the ecliptic (because they are launched from Earth, which inhabits the ecliptic), limiting our views to those near the solar equator or its mid-latitude regions. The proposed mission to study the Sun's poles is called, the Solar Polar Imager, and it can only be realistically implemented with a solar sail propulsion system. The Solar Polar Imager spacecraft would benefit from the 46 increase in solar propulsive thrust available from operating at 0.5 AU. While the proposed mission is just a concept at this time, studies show that current solar-sail technology could be used to implement the mission with a square, 3-axis stabilized sail no more than 150 meters on a side.

**Tenth— Research on solar storms leads to information of when and where solar storms will strike— This is key to preparation**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al.** as previously cited **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Fortunately, in addition to adding lots of mass to the spacecraft, there are two other ways to mitigate the effects of these storms, and both require some sort of advanced warning of an impending storm. One is to turn off particularly vulnerable spacecraft systems when the worst of the storm arrives, and power back up after the storm is over. The other would be to reorient the spacecraft so as to maximize any onboard spacecraft mass between the most vulnerable systems and the ionizing radiation in the plasma for the duration of the storm.

**Finally—All protection measures in the status quo fail, are too small or take too long to forecast events—The plan is needed to revolutionize our understanding of solar storms**
Mike **Wall**, Syndicated columnist for pages like Space.Com and MSNBC, **4/18**
[“Storm warning: We're not ready for a super solar blast”, MSNBC, 4/18/12, available online at http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47089141/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/storm-warning-were-not-ready-super-solar-blast/, accessed 4/26/12Thur]
Humanity needs to be much better prepared for massive solar storms, which can wreak havoc on our technology-dependent society, a prominent researcher warns. Powerful blasts from the sun have triggered intense geomagnetic storms on Earth before, and they'll do so again. But at the moment our ability to predict these events and guard against their worst consequences — which can include interruptions of power grids and satellite navigation systems — is lacking, says Mike Hapgood of the British research and technology agency RAL Space. "We need a much better understanding of the likelihood of space weather disruptions and their impacts, and we need to develop that knowledge quickly," Hapgood, head of RAL Space's space environment group, writes in a commentary in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. Potentially devastating storms The solar storms we need to worry about, Hapgood says, are coronal mass ejections, or CMEs — huge clouds of charged solar plasma that can rocket into space at speeds of 3 million mph (5 million kilometers per hour) or more. CMEs that hit Earth inject large amounts of energy into the planet's magnetic field, spawning potentially devastating geomagnetic storms that can disrupt GPS signals, radio communications and power grids for days. [The Worst Solar Storms in History] The world witnessed such effects not too long ago. In March 1989, a CME caused a power blackout in Quebec, leaving 5 million Canadians in the dark in cold weather for hours. The event caused about $2 billion in damages and lost business, Hapgood writes. But CMEs are capable of much greater mischief. A huge ejection — now known as the Carrington event, after a British astronomer— slammed into Earth in 1859, setting off fires in telegraph offices. The world was not technologically advanced enough yet to suffer worse consequences, Hapgood noted. "If we had a repeat of the Carrington event, I would expect several days of economic and social mayhem as many critical technological systems failed — e.g., localized power grid failures in many countries, widespread loss of GPS signals for navigation and timing, disruption of communications systems, shutdown of long-haul aviation," Hapgood told Space.com via email. And the short-term problems caused by such a storm could pale in comparison with its long-term impact, he added. "What scares me is the possibility that this recovery could take a long time in many parts of the world," Hapgood said. "Over the past few decades, we have become much more dependent on technology to sustain our everyday lives: e.g., electricity to pump clean water to our homes and remove sewage, just-in-time supply chains to feed us, ATMs and retail card readers to provide money for everyday shopping. Do we know how to recover quickly from the simultaneous disruption of a huge range of systems?" Improving predictions Despite a growing sense of concern among scientists — and decision-makers in politics and industry — our technology-dependent society remains vulnerable to a big CME-spawned geomagnetic storm, Hapgood says. [Photos: Huge Solar Flare Eruptions of 2012] For starters, our forecasting ability, while improving, is still lacking. The United States' Space Weather Prediction Center can currently provide warnings of strong geomagnetic storms 10 to 60 minutes in advance with about 50 percent accuracy, Hapgood writes. That's a pretty small window for power companies to take protective measures. Space-weather forecasters generally rely on observtions of approaching CMEs made by a handful of spacecraft. These include NASA's Advanced Composition Explorer (ACE) and Solar Terrestrial Rela­tions Observatory (STEREO) probes, as well as the NASA/European Space Agency Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO). ACE launched in 1997, SOHO in 1995 and the twin STEREO craft in 2006. It's time for an upgrade, Hapgood told Space.com. "We really need to replace those spacecraft and their instruments that monitor CMEs and, if possible, upgrade the instruments so they are optimized for space weather monitoring — essentially to pull out the most critical data and get it back to Earth as soon as possible," he said. Preparing for the worst The 1989 event spurred some power companies to require that all new transformers be able to withstand storms of similar magnitude. But Hapgood thinks power, aviation and other vulnerable industries — including finance, which depends on precise GPS time stamps for automatic trading — should take a longer view and guard against the huge storm that comes along just once every 1,000 years or so. That's tough to do, since researchers don't know what a thousand-year storm might look like; data on such dramatic events are pretty hard to come by. But Hapgood says scientists could get a better idea by analyzing more data, including observations from a century or more ago. Much of this historical information exists on paper only. Digitizing it would bring these records to the attention of many more researchers, Hapgood says, and he suggests enlisting citizen scientists to do the job on the Internet, much as the Galaxy Zoo project has asked volunteers to classify galaxies online by the galaxies' shapes. Researchers also need to develop better physics-based models to improve their understanding of extreme space weather, Hapgood says. And he suggests that studying storms on other, sunlike stars could be helpful, too. In general, Hapgood is calling for powerful geomagnetic storms to be regarded as natural hazards similar to big earthquakes and volcanic eruptions: infrequent, potentially devastating events. "These events often transcend the experience of any individual because they happen so rarely. Thus there is an all-too-human tendency to ignore them — that they lie outside the awareness of the decision-maker and probably will not occur during his term of office," Hapgood said. "But these events will happen sometime. We need to understand them and decide how far we should (i.e., can afford to) protect against them — and definitely not leave them until it's too late."

**Subpoint B) Global Warming**

**First—Warming is real and anthropogenic—IPCC studies, AGU meeting and most recent studies**
Kaitlin **Alexander**, B.Sc. student and climatologist from Canada, **2012**
[“What Amount of Global Warming is Human-Caused?”, Next Generation Journal, 2/1/12, available online at http://nextgenjournal.com/2012/02/what-amount-of-global-warming-is-human-caused/, accessed 4/27/12Thur]
A growing body of research is showing that humans are likely causing more than 100% of global warming: without our influences on the climate, the planet would actually be cooling slightly. In 2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published its fourth assessment report, internationally regarded as the most credible summary of climate science to date. It concluded that “most of the observed increase in global average temperatures since the mid-20th century is very likely due to the observed increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gas concentrations.” A clear question remains: How much is “most”? 51%? 75%? 99%? At the time that the IPCC report was written, the answer was unclear. However, a new frontier of climate research has emerged since, and scientists are working hard to quantify the answer to this question. I recently attended the 2011 American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting, a conference of over 20,000 scientists, many of whom study the climate system. This new area of research was a hot topic of discussion at AGU, and a phrase that came up many times was “more than 100%”. That’s right, humans are probably causing more than 100% of observed global warming. That means that our influences are being offset by natural cooling factors. If we had never started burning fossil fuels, the world would be cooling slightly. In the long term, oscillations of the Earth’s orbit show that, without human activity, we would be very slowly descending into a new ice age. There are other short-term cooling influences, though. Large volcanic eruptions, such as Mount Pinatubo in 1991, have thrown dust into the upper atmosphere where it blocks a small amount of sunlight. The sun, particularly in the last few years, has been less intense than usual, due to the 11-year sunspot cycle. We have also experienced several strong La Niña events in the Pacific Ocean, which move heat out of the atmosphere and into the ocean. However, all of these cooling influences pale in comparison to the strength of the human-caused warming influences. The climate change communication project Skeptical Science recently summarized six scientific studies in this graphic: Most of the studies estimated that humans caused over 100% of the warming since 1950, and all six put the number over 98%. Additionally, most of the studies find natural influences to be in the direction of cooling, and all six show that number to be close to zero. If you are interested in the methodologies and uncertainty ranges of these six studies, Skeptical Science goes into more detail, and also provides links to the original journal articles. To summarize, the perception that humans are accelerating a natural process of warming is false. We have created this problem entirely on our own. Luckily, that means we have the power to stop the problem in its tracks. We are in control, and we choose what happens in the future.

**Second—Too Late to Stop warming by conventional means – even zero emissions scenarios won’t effect climate for thousands of years**
**Click Green** 1-7-**2011** (““Unstoppable effects” of climate change will last for 1,000 years,” http://www.clickgreen.org.uk opinion/opinion/121749-%E2%80%9Cunstoppable-effects%E2%80%9D-of-climate-change-will-last-for-1,000-years.html)/
New research indicates the impact of rising CO2 levels in the Earth's atmosphere will cause unstoppable effects to the climate for at least the next 1000 years, causing researchers to estimate a collapse of the West Antarctic ice sheet by the year 3000, and an eventual rise in the global sea level of at least four metres. The study, to be published next week, is the first full climate model simulation to make predictions out to 1000 years from now. It is based on best-case, 'zero-emissions' scenarios constructed by a team of researchers from the Canadian Centre for Climate Modelling and Analysis (an Environment Canada research lab at the University of Victoria) and the University of Calgary. "We created 'what if' scenarios," says Dr. Shawn Marshall, Canada Research Chair in Climate Change and University of Calgary geography professor. "What if we completely stopped using fossil fuels and put no more CO2 in the atmosphere? How long would it then take to reverse current climate change trends and will things first become worse?" The research team explored zero-emissions scenarios beginning in 2010 and in 2100.

**Third—Solar Sails can block out the effects of warming—Moreover, this is reversible whenever we want**
Kenneth I. **Roy**, M.S. Industrial Engineering, **2001**
[“Solar Sails - An Answer to Global Warming?”, Ultimax.com, 2001-3, available online at http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/2001_3a.html, accessed 4/27/12Thur]
INTRODUCTION The ability of a solar sail to generate a continuous acceleration with consuming fuel allows it to position itself between the earth and the sun and to then orbit with the same radial velocity as the earth. The very photons that provide this “free” acceleration are prevented from completing their journey and adding to the total energy transmitted from the sun to the earth. If enough photons can be intercepted, the Earth will experience a reduced solar constant and the overall global temperature would drop, even in the face of increasing levels of greenhouse gases being introduced into the earth's atmosphere. GLOBAL WARMING This paper is not intended to discuss the global warming issue. It assumes that the problem is real, due either to man made or natural causes, and that lowering the average global temperature is a desirable objective. There are a large number of articles and papers that discuss the consequences of global warming but few that offer a solution, and none that offer a cheap solution, this paper included. The usual solution offered is for a worldwide reduction in the emissions of greenhouse gases. This is going to be expensive. Manne and Richels 3 (1990) suggest that the cost to reduce CO2 emissions by the United States to 80% of the 1990 level could range up to US$3.6 trillion [1012], in 1990 dollars. HOW MUCH IS ENOUGH? If we choose to use solar sails to reduce the total quantity of sunlight hitting the planet, then how much of a reduction is necessary? The author was unable to find any good answers to this question. A 0.25% reduction in the sun’s energy output is what scientists estimate caused the Maunder minimum (Hayden, 2000). 1, 27 For reasons unknown, the sunspot cycle shut down between the mid-16th and 17th centuries. Astronomers refer to this period as the Maunder minimum. Historians refer to it as the Little Ice Age, the coldest period of time since the last great ice age, some 10,000 years ago. The Thames River in England froze for the first time in recorded history, Europe’s population growth stalled, crops failed, and sea ice cut off Iceland from Europe. Tyco Brahe, a Danish astronomer, recorded winter temperatures 2.7° Fahrenheit below average during the last two decades of the 16th century. The ability to effectively reduce the solar constant by a similar fraction of a percent should give us enough control to adjust the global temperature to our liking. With the sheer number of unknowns swirling around the global warming issue and the complexity of the earth's climate and weather systems, this guess is perhaps as good as we can do today. One significant advantage of the solar sail approach to the problem of global warming is that it’s very flexible. Solar sails in position can quickly and easily be moved “off-line” where they won’t obstruct the sunlight hitting the earth. The deployment rate for new sails is limited only by the infrastructure for their construction and deployment.

**Fourth—Global warming will reach a tipping point within the decade – positive feedbacks would raise sea levels, threaten food security, collapse states, and end civilization.**
**Brown**, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., **2008**
[Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]
In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow at Princeton Uni¬versity published an article in Science that showed how annual carbon emissions from fossil fuels could be held at 7 billion tons instead of rising to 14 billion tons over the next 50 years, as would occur with business as usual. The goal of Pacala, an ecol¬ogist, and Socolow, an engineer, was to prevent atmospheric CO2 concentrations, then near 375 ppm, from rising above 500 ppm. I They described IS ways, all using proven technologies, that by 20S4 could each cut carbon emissions by 1 billion tons per year. Any seven of these options could be used together to pre¬vent an increase in carbon emissions through 2054. Pacala and Socolow further theorize that advancing technology would allow for annual carbon emissions to be cut to 2 billion tons by 2104, a level that can be absorbed by natural carbon sinks in land and oceans. The Pacala/Socolow conceptualization has been extraordi¬narily useful in helping to think about how to cut carbon emis¬sions. During the three years since the article was written, the urgency of acting quickly and on a much larger scale has become obvious. We also need now to go beyond the conceptu¬al approach that treats all potential methods of reducing carbon emissions equally and concentrate on those that are most prom¬ising. Researchers such as James Hansen, a leading climate scien¬tist at NASA, believe that global warming is accelerating and may be approaching a tipping point, a point at which climate change acquires a momentum that makes it irreversible. They think we may have a decade to turn the situation around before this threshold is crossed. I agree.?3 We often hear descriptions of what we need to do in the decades ahead or by 2050 to avoid "dangerous climate change," but we are already facing this. Two thirds of the glaciers that feed the Yellow and Yangtze rivers of China will disappear by 2060 if even the current 7 percent annual rate of melting con¬tinues. Glaciologists report that the Gangotri glacier, which supplies 70 percent of the ice melt that feeds the Ganges River during the dry season, could disappear entirely in a matter of decades.74 What could threaten world food security more than the melt¬ing of the glaciers that feed the major rivers of Asia during the dry season, the rivers that irrigate the region's rice and wheat fields? In a region with half the world's people, this potential loss of water during the dry season could lead not just to hunger but to starvation on an unimaginable scale. Asian food security would take a second hit because its rice¬-growing river deltas and floodplains would be under water. The World Bank tells us that a sea level rise of only 1 meter would inundate half of the riceland in Bangladesh. While a 1-meter rise in sea level will not happen overnight, what is worrisome is that if ice melting continues at today's rates, at some point such a rise in sea level will no longer be preventable. The melting that would cause this is not just what may happen if the earth's tem-perature rises further; this is something that is starting to hap¬pen right now with the current temperature. As summer neared an end in 2007, reports from Greenland indicated that the flow of glaciers into the sea had accelerated beyond anything glaciologists had thought possible. Huge chunks of ice weighing several billion tons each were breaking off and sliding into the sea, causing minor earthquakes as they did so.!6 With melt-water lubricating the surface between the glaciers and the rocks on which they rested, ice flows were accelerating, flowing into the ocean at a pace of 2 meters an hour. This accel¬erated flow, along with the earthquakes, shows the potential for the entire ice sheet to break up and collapse?? Beyond what is already happening, the world faces a risk that some of the feedback mechanisms will begin to kick in, fur¬ther accelerating the warming process. Scientists who once thought that the Arctic Ocean could be free of ice during the summer by 2100 now see it occurring by 2030. Even this could turn out to be a conservative estimate.78 This is of particular concern to scientists because of the albedo effect, where the replacement of highly reflective sea ice with darker open water greatly increases heat absorbed from sunlight. This, of course, has the potential to further accelerate the melting of the Greenland ice sheet. A second feedback loop of concern is the melting of per¬mafrost. This would release billions of tons of carbon, some as methane, a potent greenhouse gas with a global warming effect per ton 25 times that of carbon dioxide.79 The risk facing humanity is that climate change could spiral out of control and it will no longer be possible to arrest trends such as ice melting and rising sea level. At this point, the future of civilization would be at risk. This combination of melting glaciers, rising seas, and their effects on food security and low-lying coastal cities could over¬whelm the capacity of governments to cope. Today it is largely weak states that begin to deteriorate under the pressures of mounting environmental stresses. But the changes just described could overwhelm even the strongest of states. Civilization itself could begin to unravel under these extreme stresses.

**Thus Marquette offers the following plan:**

**The United States federal government should develop solar sails and deploy them on Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters.**

**Contention three is solvency**

**First— The sail being unfurled in the inner solar system answers all solvency questions— Nothing will be able to destroy ships**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. as previously cited, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Solar sails operate best in the inner solar system and well away from Earth. Sunlight is plentiful and continuous. Away from planetary gravity, there are few mechanical stresses on their tenuous gossamer structures. Though the extreme effects of LEO are not present in interplanetary space, it, too, is far from empty.

**Second— Solar sails are ready to fly— We have tested all the technology and materials**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. as previously cited, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Solar sails stress our current state-of-the-art materials capabilities, but the needs of first-generation sail missions can now be met. Materials that are manufacturable in large sizes, yet lightweight enough to provide thrust under photon bombardment exist and have been tested in simulated space conditions. The radiation tolerance of candidate materials has been measured, with some outperforming others. Several materials appear to be both foldable and storable with minimal, if any, subsequent deployment issues. From a materials point of view, first-generation solar sails are ready to fly!

**Third— Using circular sails minimizes the risk of wrinkles**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al.** Masters in nuclear physics, Ph.D. in plasma physics, fellow of AIAA, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Other deployment methods, some of which have been tested on the ground, apply to circular sails. For instance, the sail would be unfolded by a small-diameter inflatable tube attached around the sail circumference; once deployed, the tube has to be rigidized (in the space environment) to retain its shape without the need of keeping the tube under pressure (a thing impossible to do for a longtime). Although some corrugation may arise from such a method, it is expected that the sail could be almost wrinkle-free. One should note, however, that, replacing telescopic booms by inflatable tubes does not avoid wrinkles; the important thing is the circumferential geometry of the supporting beam (see the discussion of the Aurora collaboration in Chapter 13).

**Fourth—Current testing proves sails can be packaged to survive launch— Things will only improve as sails are launched**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. Masters in nuclear physics, Ph.D. in plasma physics, fellow of AIAA, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Another problem during launch is outgassing. A rocket may go from one atmosphere of pressure to total vacuum in 8 minutes. A payload riding the rocket experiences the very same pressure change, resulting in a rapid flow of air from the craft to space. A sail has the additional problem of trapped air between folded layers. If the folding is not performed with care, then air bubbles between some layers will form and rush out from between others. The results might range from an inability to deploy (from a bloated sail) to outright destruction (from the rapid out-rush of air, causing a tear). For this reason, testing, called ``ascent venting,'' is performed to simulate the launch environment. It has been shown that sails can be packaged to survive the rigors of launch into space.

**Fifth— Despite limitations, sails will be able to conduct exploration and monitoring missions that current technology can’t**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. Masters in nuclear physics, Ph.D. in plasma physics, fellow of AIAA, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
In the near term, it is evident that we will be limited in our selection of materials and structures for solar-sail missions. With the use of composite booms and mylar sails, the best possible sail areal density is certainly no less than approximately 10 grams per square meter(g/m2).This will limit first-generation sails to be less than 150 to 200 meters in diameter and restrict the amount of payload that can be carried. Even with these restrictions, multiple science and exploration missions will be achievable with solar sails that are otherwise currently beyond our technological capabilities. Where do we go from here? Are there new materials that might get us down to an areal density of 1 g/m2 or less? The answer is a cautious ``maybe''!

**Sixth— In a decade scientists will solve the technology problems— plans are in place to lighten sails now**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. Masters in nuclear physics, Ph.D. in plasma physics, fellow of AIAA, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
One improvement might occur within a decade or so of the first operational solar photon-sail missions. First-generation sails are generally tri-layered. Facing the sun is a reflective layer, which is affixed to a plastic substrate. Among other things, the plastic substrate provides the structural strength required for the sail to survive the accelerations experienced during launch. On the anti-sunward side is an emissive layer that radiates the small fraction of incident sunlight that is absorbed by rather than reflected from the reflective layer. Some researchers have already conducted experiments with plastics that will evaporate when exposed to solar ultraviolet radiation. If this evaporation can be controlled in a large, thin-film structure, the areal density of Earth-launched sails will be greatly reduced

**Finally— Technology will develop as the industry grows— All of the solvency questions will be perfected by 2030**
Giovanni **Vulpetti et al**. as previously cited, **2008**
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed 8-11-11Thur]
Moving forward a few decades, we can reasonably expect major improvements in sail technology. Various sail structures and unfurlment techniques will have been perfected. Sails will be thinner, stronger, and more temperature resistant. A number of exciting mission opportunities could be implemented during this timeframe. One of these is the possibility of formation flying with a comet and returning comet samples to Earth.
=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]