**Plan: The United States Congress should extend the Indian Self Determination Act and Educational Assistance Act to the Department of Transportation, streamline rights-of-way requirements for American Indian transportation infrastructure projects, establish a tribal infrastructure bank, and provide support and funding for the development of a formal process for consulting relevant American Indian nations prior to the implementation of transportation projects.**

**Contention One: Genocide—**
**First— Indigenous roads are the worst in the country and poor transportation infrastructure is the primary barrier to improving economic and living conditions for American Indians.**
**NCAI 2011** (National Congress of American Indians, “SENATE COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS HEARING: Oversight hearing on tribal transportation: Paving the way for Jobs, Infrastructure, and Safety in Native Communities,” Sep 15, [[@http://www.indian.senate.gov/hearings/upload/Jefferson-Keel-FINAL-testimony.pdf]])
Currently, there are over …, and employment centers.

**Second— poor transportation infrastructure and geographic isolation undermines indigenous access to employment and health care.**
**Hensley-Quinn and Shawn 2006**, Maureen Hensley-Quinn and Kelly Shawn, fall 2006, Rural Transit Assistance Program of the Federal Transit Administration, “American Indian Transport: Issues and Successful Models,” [[@http://www.ctaa.org/webmodules/]] webarticles/articlefiles/American_Indian_RTAP_Brief.pdf
American Indian transportation … the needs of their people.

**Third— insufficient access to health care causes American Indians to die from preventable causes at disproportionate rates.**
**Allen**, Tribe Chairmen of the S’Klallam Tribe of Washington, **2009** (Ron, Committee Report, “HOUSE ENERGY AND COMMERCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON HEALTH ON COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH REFORM DISCUSSION DRAFT”, DAY 2, PART 2 CME)
Here are some of … population (1999-2001 rates).

**Fourth— these disparities constitute a policy of genocide targeted at American Indians.**
**Valentine**, PhD Candidate, Sociology, Texas A&M, **08** (Shari, “The Genocide that Never Ends: Bush to Veto Indian Health Services Bill,” Racism Review,[[@http://www.racismreview.com/blog/2008/02/03/the-genocide-that-never-ends-bush-to-veto-indian-health-services-bill/]])
The headline on … we call that genocide.

**Furthermore— economic disparities make reservations targets for toxic waste disposal – the impact is radioactive genocide**
**Brook**, Contributer to Harper’s and Boston Globe, **1998** (Daniel, Contributer to Harper’s and Boston Globe, “Environmental Genocide: Native Genocide: Native Americans and Toxic Waste. “American Journal of Economics and Sociology 1998 Vol. 37, No. 1” )
GENOCIDE AGAINST NATIVE …executives are conveniently immune" (Parker 1983, 59).

**Finally— genocide risks war and extinction**.
Kenneth J **Campbell**, Professor of Political Science & International Relations at the University of Delaware, '01(Genocide and the Global Village, p. 15-6)
Regardless of where … risk to lives and treasure.

**Contention Two: Self Determination—**
**First— investment in Indigenous transportation infrastructure is a central tenant of US Trust responsibilities to American Indians.**
**NCAI 2012**(National Congress of American Indians, Fiscal Year 2013 Indian Country Budget Request: Our Trust. Our People. Our America. Executive Summary, [[@http://www.ncai.org/resources/ncai-publications/indian-country-budget-request/FY2013_Budget_Exec_Summary.pdf]])
These FY 2013 … in the appropriations process.

**Second— the federal trust obligation is key to American Indian self determination.**
**Wood 1994** (Mary Christina, Assistant Professor of Law, University of Oregon. Indian Land and the Promise of Native Sovereignty: The Trust Doctrine Revisited, 1994 Utah L. Rev. 1471)
In the context of … the basis of the trusteeship.

**Third— US self determination policies are globally modeled.**
**Morris**, Associate professor of political science at the University of Colorado, Denver, **1999** (Glenn T., International Law and Politics: Toward a Right to Self-Determination for Indigenous Peoples,”[[@http://cwis.org/fwdp/International/int.txt]])
Although this chapter … other parts of the planet.

**Fourth— our plan promotes internal self determination which prevents secession conflicts which would threaten world stability and democracy. Kolodner 1994** – (Eric, currently completing a joint degree at New York University School of Law and Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Fall 1994, Connecticut Journal of International Law, 10 Conn. J. Int'l L. 153, LEXIS) Recently, however, some … world peace and stability.

**Fifth— self-determination conflicts go nuclear.**
**Shehadi**, Research Associate International Institute for Strategic Studies, **1994** (Kamal, Ethnic Self Determination and the Break-up of States, p. 81-82) This paper has … on International security. In Addition— internal self determination is preferred by most indigenous groups because it best protects indigenous control and self sufficiency. Suagee 1992 (Dean, Associate, Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Wilder, Washington, D.C. University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform, SELF-DETERMINATION FOR INDIGENOUS PEOPLES AT THE DAWN OF THE SOLAR AGE, 25 U. Mich. J.L. Reform 671)
In the controversy … neglects internal self-determination.

**Contention Three: Solvency— The National Congress of American Indians has called on congress to implement our specific plan. NCAI 2011** (National Congress of American Indians, “SENATE COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS HEARING: Oversight hearing on tribal transportation: Paving the way for Jobs, Infrastructure, and Safety in Native Communities,” Sep 15, [[@http://www.indian.senate.gov/hearings/upload/Jefferson-Keel-FINAL-testimony.pdf]])
After years of little … transportation infrastructure development.

**And the consultative process means that transportation projects are timely and guided by the demands of American Indians. NCAI 2011** (National Congress of American Indians, " A Call for Congress and the Administration to Support and Fund the development of a Tribal Consultation Process as required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)" [[@http://www.ncai.org/]] attachments/Resolution_yzMpvFWtmQpnWEeVuTxKGBjRmYVcrInqMBdvrvTDbrRkmTGRSFI_ftl04-008.pdf) WHEREAS, we, the members …with a quorum present.

**The National Congress of American Indians, which is the largest consortium of American Indian governments and advocacy groups, is calling for the plan, calling for improved access to jobs and health through infrastructure investment. NCAI 2013** (National Congress of American Indians, FY2014 Indian Country Budget Request, No Date: Accessed 2-21-2013, [[@http://www.ncai.org/resources/ncai-publications/indian-country-budget-request/fy2014/16_NCAI_2014_Budget_Request_Transp.pdf]])

**Surface transportation in Indian ...need still remains unmet. In conclusion— plans (like ours) that respond to specific demands from the NCAI are the only way to solve self-determination. You should prefer evidence from American Indian groups when determining what policy to implement, and you should be suspicious of every alternative and counterplan that isn’t back by indigenous demands. Cook 1994** (Samuel R. "What is Indian Self-Determination?", RED INK, Volume 3, Number One (1 May 1994), http:// [[@http://faculty.smu.edu/twalker/samrcook.htm|faculty.smu.edu/twalker/samrcook.htm]]) Ideally, tribal leaders ... behind self-determination.