<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">[[toc]]
</span>

**Note:** We are novices unless we aren't so feel free to underestimate us.

=<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">**Affirmative**</span>= 
==Observation One – Transportation Racism== 
First, transportation racism exists now—unequal funding for public transit systems is fueling racism and transportation apartheid
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bernstein and Solomon, ‘11</span>
[Andrea and Nancy, American Radio Works contributors/producers, “Back of the Bus: Mass transit, race, and inequality.” 2-18-2011, Originally broadcast date, online, [[http://transportationnation.org/backofthebus/]]] /Wyo-MB
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Transportation</span> in Atlanta...<span style="font-size: 10pt;">spent on mass transit.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, this “white flight” was no accident, but rather a result of racist federal preference. Urban sprawl sustained white privilege and redrew the map of opportunity and exclusion across America.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marcantonio and Brenman, ‘11</span> [October 25, 2011; Richard A. Marcantonio is a Managing Attorney for Public Advocates Inc., a non-profit public interest law firm in San Francisco, California; Marc Brenman is former Executive Director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and former Senior Policy Advisor for Civil Rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation; “Lessons from the History of Transportation Justice”’ [[http://equity.lsnc.net/lessons-from-the-history-of-transportation-justice/]], we do not endorse the gendered language within this evidence]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A new era in the...exclusion in metropolitan regions across America.</span>

Third, this transportation racism has fueled uburbanization and gentrification that have marginalized the urban poor, they cannot respond due to a lack of political clout ensuring segregation and inequality
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dombroski ‘05</span>[Matthew A., J.D., James Kent Scholar, Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar, Managing Editor, //Columbia Law Review,// Columbia Law Review, Vol. 105, No. 2 (Mar., 2005), “Securing Access to Transportation for the Urban Poor,” pp. 503-536, Jstor, spencer]
This <span style="font-size: 10pt;">massive migration...</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">press for legislative change.</span>


Fourth, transportation is, and empirically has, evolved to prioritize and legitimize white flight and the relocation of business which disenfranchises minorities. This demonstrates how access to mobility is controlled along race and class lines
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dombroski ‘05</span> [Matthew A., J.D., James Kent Scholar, Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar, Managing Editor, Columbia Law Review, Columbia Law Review, Vol. 105, No. 2 (Mar., 2005), “Securing Access to Transportation for the Urban Poor,” pp. 503-536, Jstor, spencer]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the likelihood that provision...Equal Protection Clause for several reasons.</span>

Fifth, Public transportation remains mired in Apartheid style policies that perpetuate racial exclusion
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EJRC, ‘04</span>
[Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “Suburban Sprawl and transporation racism.” The Black Commentator, 9-23-2004, Issue 106, Online, [[http://www.blackcommentator.com/106/106_transportation_racism.html|http://www.blackcommentator.com/106/106_transportation_racism.html#]]] /WFI-MB
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the United States, all communities...worlds apart from its suburbs</span>."

Sixth, we must reject every instance of racism
Joseph <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barndt</span>, Co-Director, Crossroads, DISMANTLING RACISM, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">91</span>, p. 155-156
The limitations imposed on...<span style="font-size: 10pt;">we dare not allow it to continue.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seventh, racism is the precondition for all institutional violence – it’s indispensable to internalizing the conditions of war and justifying state-sanctioned homicide.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mendieta ‘2 </span>[April 25th, Eduardo- New School of Social Research, SUNY @ Stonybrook, ph.D in Education; ‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism; Meeting of The Foucault Circle APA Central Division Meeting –Chicago; http://www.stonybrook.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have thus far discussed...and foes are biological in nature.</span>
==Observation Two: Food Access== 

People of color are disproportionally affected by food inequity due to lack of access and availability of supermarkets in their area.
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hill 12, </span>**<span class="Heading2Char">Marc LamontProfessor, author and activist, Marc Lamont Hill is host of the nationally syndicated TVOne news show Our World With Black Enterprise, “Food Justice is Racial Justice”, </span><span style="color: black;">[[@http://www.momsrising.org/blog/food-justice-is-racial-justice/#ixzz1zIh33M4H|http://www.momsrising.org/blog/food-justice-is-racial-justice/#ixzz1zIh33M4H]]</span><span class="Heading2Char">, April 20th,</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> 2012</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> I have spent a lot of time...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">about systems, structures and institutions.</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Food deserts don’t have adequate transportation for low income and racial minorities</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chart 09</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Natasha, Writer for news.change.org, 2009-06-25 “Food Deserts in America” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://news.change.org/stories/food-deserts-access-in-america]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The USDA has</span> finally...<span style="line-height: 1.5;">the most defining characteristic.</span>


Hunger, food insecurity, poverty, and obesity are interlinked and disproportionally effect low-income communities amidst lack of access to supermarkets
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Winne, 08 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Mark, Former Executive Director of the Harford Food System, 2008 “Closing the Food Gap: Resetting the Table in the Land of the Plenty”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">As our knowledge of the...</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">illnesses such as diabetes. </span>

The apriori issue is racism-It makes all forms of violence inevitable. It must be rejected in every instance
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Memmi ’00 </span>[2000, Albert is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]
The struggle against racism...but the stakes are irresistible.
==Observation Three – The plan== 
The USFG should substantially increase its investment for public transit infrastructure in lower-income areas.
==Observation Four – Solvency== 
First, public transit funding is necessary to solve racial injustice and unequal access to opportunitity
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sanchez, Stolz, and Ma, ‘03</span>
[Thomas, Rich and Jacinta, The Civil Rights Project at Harvard & Center for Community Change, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities.” Online, [[http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]]] /WFI-MB
The following are some...inadequate should be developed

Second, Federal investment in public transportation infrastructure is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams, ‘11</span>
[Mantill, APTA staff, “ Congress Must Support Public Transportation Investment to Keep America Moving Forward.” 3-29-11, Online, [[http://www.apta.com/mediacenter/pressreleases/2011/Pages/110329_Millar_Testimony.aspx]]] /WFI-MB
Washington, DC- <span style="font-size: 10pt;">American...expanded federal investment</span>.”

Third, Access to transportation is a necessity—now is a key time to work to break down transportation discrimination
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard ‘04</span>
[Robert, Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_Southern_University|Texas Southern University]], __Highway Robbery: Transportation Racism and New Routes to Equity__, January 1, 2004 //wyo-MU]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">More than one hundred years ago..irrelevant need, but a necessity.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Negative</span>= 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We don't believe in switch-side debate unless we do so tbd.</span>