[[toc|flat]]
=Version 1 - Meadows= 
==Contention One: Inherency== 
**The Gulf Coast regions lack sufficient transportation evacuation systems for people in poverty; States and private actors can’t solve**
**U.S. DOT et al 11**[(Department of Transportation), in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), “Catastrophic Hurricane Evacuation Plan Evaluation” http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/reports/hurricanevacuation/execsumm.htm)]
The actual operation of transportation systems throughout the course of catastrophic incidents is one of
AND
community once it is safe. Few State and local plans address these details

===Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in mass evacuation transportation infrastructure in states of the Gulf Coast Region.=== 

==Contention Two: Structural Oppression== 
**Natural disasters are becoming increasingly frequent. The globe is becoming a field of intensifying death and destruction.**
**Brunsma and Picou 2008**(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David, University of Missouri, and J. Steven, University of South Alabama, Disasters in the Twenty-First Century: Modern Destruction and Future Instruction Social Forces Volume 87, Number 2, December 2008)</span>
Sociologists are becoming increasingly aware of the changing nature of risk in late modernity and
AND
that disaster research is being actively re-imagined throughout the broader discipline.

**Transportation infrastructure is critical to evacuation**
**Wolshon, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Louisiana State University (Brian, “The Aftermath of Katrina”,[[http://www.nae.edu/Publications/Bridge/TheAftermathofKatrina/EvacuationPlanningandEngineeringforHurricaneKatrina.aspx)Z|http://www.nae.edu/Publications/Bridge/TheAftermathofKatrina/EvacuationPlanningandEngineeringforHurricaneKatrina.aspx)]]</span>
Although little can be done to alter the weather, we can prepare for the
AND
years based on valuable lessons learned from prior storms in Louisiana and elsewhere.

**The horrors of Katrina justify the statement: ‘Never again’. We all looked on as thousands perished and we have an ethical obligation to prevent a repeat**
**Giroux, 06**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)</span>
Hurricane Katrina may have reversed the self-imposed silence of the media and public
AND
where democracy has lost its claims” (2005, 122,124).

**No disaster is natural; Katrina was a result of the institutionalized racism taking away opportunity for life. The rich whites survived while the poor blacks were left to suffer; Only by recognizing oppression as a process that occurs inside institutions and policy can we eradicate it at its source**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chester </span>**Hartman**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Gregory D.</span> **Squires 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Hartman is Director of Research for </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)</span>
Those who rejected racism as a contributing factor to the disaster, as well as 
AND
disparities and releases them from any obligation to do something about institutionalized racism.

===We confront Structural oppression in 3 ways:=== 
===1. Embracing the other-=== 
**A recognition of the Other constructed by Katrina is critical to combat institutionalized racism and the logic of disposability**
**Scheper-Hughes 5**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">- prof of anthropology (Nancy, December, Anthropology Today, “Katrina: The disaster and its doubles,” [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/3694939|www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/3694939]], mat)</span>
At times of crisis and catastrophe, people seek an explanation for what happened.
AND
that will allow them to return and to rebuild if they so wish.
Once the more ‘beloved communities’ 6 were safely evacuated, leaving behind the riff
AND
bridge and into the safety of Queens – a beautiful and historic moment.
Self-blame and national shame In the wake of a disaster people tend to
AND
Black and poor population’s civil rights seem to have so utterly failed them.

===2. Promoting Ethics-=== 
**New Orleans is a critical ethical exercise—we must recognize our responsibility to rectify centuries of discrimination.**
**Morse 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span>http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )//ALo</span>
Finally, recognizing how major national policy choices in areas like energy, transportation,
AND
Justice Cardozo: “prosperity and salvation are in union and not division.

**There is an infinite obligation for government action on Katrina**
**Jorgenson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hurricane Katrina: Humanitarian Obligations and Lessons Learned Ellen Jorgenson Case-Specific Briefing Paper Humanitarian Assistance in Complex Emergencies University of Denver 2011</span>
According to Fred Cuny, the root cause of most disasters is poverty (Van
AND
, NGO and individual reactions to disasters, interpreted through policy and practice.

===3. Policy Action-=== 
**In order to address inequality we must recognize the impact structural racism has on individuals and take into account how policies effect race**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chester</span> **Hartman**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Gregory D.</span> **Squires 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Hartman is Director of Research for the Washington, D.C.-based Poverty & Race Research Action Council, for which he was founding Executive Director from 1990-2003. He is also founder and former Chair of The Planners Network, a national organization of progressive urban planners. Squires is a Professor of Sociology, and Public Policy and Public Administration, and Chair of the Department of Sociology at The George Washington University. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Woodstock Institute, the Advisory Board of the john Marshall Law School Fair Housing Legal Support Center in Chicago, and the Social Science Advisory Board of the Poverty & Race Research Action Council.,</span> __“There is No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster: Race, Class, and Hurricane Katrina”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Edited by Chester Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)</span>
It is clear that we cannot properly address the problem of poverty and our failing
AND
applications. This will inch us closer towards creating a truly free democracy.

**The individual bars of structural racism create a complex cage of disparity and oppression, In order to confront racism, we must dismantle the bars at an institutional level**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chester </span>**Hartman**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Gregory D.</span> **Squires 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Hartman is Director of Research for the Washington, D.C.-based Poverty & Race Research Action Council, for which he was founding Executive Director from 1990-2003. He is also founder and former Chair of The Planners Network, a national organization of progressive urban planners. Squires is a Professor of Sociology, and Public Policy and Public Administration, and Chair of the Department of Sociology at The George Washington University. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Woodstock Institute, the Advisory Board of the john Marshall Law School Fair Housing Legal Support Center in Chicago, and the Social Science Advisory Board of the Poverty & Race Research Action Council.,</span> __“There is No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster: Race, Class, and Hurricane Katrina”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Edited by Chester Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)</span>
Analyzing society through a structural racism lens is predicated on the idea that the combined
AND
that institutional arrangements are doing in the production of racialized conditions and meaning.

**It’s not just about Katrina, by responding to Katrina in a way that recognizes inequality at an institutionalized level we can begin to recognize and end inequality for all**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chester </span>**Hartman**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Gregory D.</span> **Squires 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Hartman is Director of Research for </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)</span>
Viewing racism narrowly is nothing new<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In fact, it dates back several generations</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
, a widening wealth gap, and a shrinking middle class affect everyone<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>


==Contention Three: Framing== 
**Transportation is rooted in class distinctions and most of all rooted in disaster planning and evacuation. This framing connects natural and social disasters in a refusal to see them different – our plan is a statement to reject race and class “neutrality” by looking at who really benefits from environmental and energy policies**
**Sze 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Julie Sze is an assistant professor in American Studies at the University of California, Davis. Her forthcoming book on the culture, politics and history of environmental justice activism in New York City is under contract with MIT Press. It looks at the intersection of planning and health, especially through the prism of asthma, and at changes in garbage and energy systems as a result of privatization, globalization and deregulation. Toxic Soup Redux: Why Environmental Racism and Environmental Justice Matter after Katrina By Julie Sze Published on: Jun 11, 2006</span>
Thus, the Gulf Coast region was, in many ways, “Ground Zero
AND
long engaged with the toxic, environmental and disaster politics in the region.

**Racism creates a permanent condition of war**
**Mendieta 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting” [[@http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/philosophy/people/faculty_pages/docs/foucault.pdf]])</span>
This is where racism intervenes, not from without, exogenously, but from within
AND
of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.

======**Racism outweighs every impact – it’s the precondition to ethical political decision making.**====== 
======**MEMMI 2000<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> –</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>====== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>struggle against racism will be long<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, difficult, without intermission, without remission</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

**Structural violence outweighs low probability events.**
**Gilman, 83** Dr. Robert C. Gilman, Ph.D. President of Context Institute Founding Editor of IN CONTEXT, A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture One of the articles in The Foundations Of Peace (IC#4) Autumn 1983, Page 8 [[http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:p_T2jwNn8g4J:www.context.org/ICLIB/IC04/Gilman1.htm+nuclear+war+%22structural+violence%22&hl=en]]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">THE HUMAN TENDENCY toward, and preparations for, </span>open warfare are certainly the most
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of the suffering it supports, it is by far our most serious flaw</span>

=<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Version 2 - S&B</span>= 
==Contention 1 is Inherency== 
**The Gulf Coast regions lack sufficient transportation evacuation systems for people in poverty; States and private actors can’t solve**
**U.S. DOT et al 11**[(Department of Transportation), in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), “Catastrophic Hurricane Evacuation Plan Evaluation” http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/reports/hurricanevacuation/execsumm.htm)]
The actual operation of transportation systems throughout the course of catastrophic incidents is one of
AND
community once it is safe. Few State and local plans address these details

===Thus we Affirm: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in the Gulf Coast region.=== 

==Contention 2 is Oppression== 
**The social capital of critical infrastructures is being devalued and failing, condemning the minorities and lower class that depend upon them. The way we respond to New Orleans can uniquely change the way we view oppression and inequality and take a step to end it for all**
Chester **Hartman**, Gregory D. **Squires 6** (Hartman is Director of Research for the Washington, D.C.-based Poverty & Race Research Action Council, for which he was founding Executive Director from 1990-2003. He is also founder and former Chair of The Planners Network, a national organization of progressive urban planners. Squires is a Professor of Sociology, and Public Policy and Public Administration, and Chair of the Department of Sociology at The George Washington University. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Woodstock Institute, the Advisory Board of the john Marshall Law School Fair Housing Legal Support Center in Chicago, and the Social Science Advisory Board of the Poverty & Race Research Action Council., __“There is No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster: Race, Class, and Hurricane Katrina”__ Edited by Chester Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)
A related key issue is the failure to maintain critical public services, including the
AND
post-Katrina world. Our book is about some of those choices.

**Transportation infrastructure is critical to evacuation**
**Wolshon, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Louisiana State University (Brian, “The Aftermath of Katrina”,[[http://www.nae.edu/Publications/Bridge/TheAftermathofKatrina/EvacuationPlanningandEngineeringforHurricaneKatrina.aspx)Z|http://www.nae.edu/Publications/Bridge/TheAftermathofKatrina/EvacuationPlanningandEngineeringforHurricaneKatrina.aspx)]]</span>
Although little can be done to alter the weather, we can prepare for the
AND
years based on valuable lessons learned from prior storms in Louisiana and elsewhere.

**The horrors of Katrina justify the statement: ‘Never again’. We all looked on as thousands perished and we have an ethical obligation to prevent a repeat**
**Giroux, 06**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)</span>
Hurricane Katrina may have reversed the self-imposed silence of the media and public
AND
where democracy has lost its claims” (2005, 122,124).

**No Disaster is natural: Katrina was a result of the institutionalized racism taking away opportunity for life. The rich whites survived while the poor blacks were left to suffer; we must recognize our responsibility to rectify centuries of discrimination.**
**Morse 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span>http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )//ALo</span>
Finally, recognizing how major national policy choices in areas like energy, transportation,
AND
Justice Cardozo: “prosperity and salvation are in union and not division.

**The Normative view of race is wrong, racism is a combination of class and race distinctions that are most heinously perpetuated through institutions and policy**
John A. **Powell 6** (is an internationally recognized authority in the areas of civil rights, civil liberties, and issues relating to race, ethnicity, poverty, and the law. He is the Executive Director of the Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity at The Ohio State University. He also holds the Williams Chair in Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at Ohio State's Moritz College of Law. He has written extensively on everything. __“There is No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster: Race, Class, and Hurricane Katrina”__ Edited by Chester Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Professor of Sociology and Public Policy & Public Administration, Chester Hartman, an urban planner and author, is Director of Research for the Poverty & Race Research Action Council, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)
For far too long Americans have been trapped in an individualistic mode of thinking about
AND
for racialized structures most Americans would be substantially better off (Barlow 2003).

**A new racism lens is a rejection of individualist approaches to solve oppression and an affirmation of a new breed of policy making that no longer ignores oppression**
John A. **Powell 6** is an internationally recognized authority in the areas of civil rights, civil liberties, and issues relating to race, ethnicity, poverty, and the law. He is the Executive Director of the Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity at The Ohio State University. He also holds the Williams Chair in Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at Ohio State's Moritz College of Law. He has written extensively on everything. __“There is No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster: Race, Class, and Hurricane Katrina”__ Edited by Chester Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Professor of Sociology and Public Policy & Public Administration, Chester Hartman, an urban planner and author, is Director of Research for the Poverty & Race Research Action Council, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)
We suggest an alternative not only for thinking about what we saw on the Gulf
AND
the cause,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> we believe that </span>individualized explanations of racism are simply inadequate.

**Reshaping our conceptualization of race and why people are oppressed to allow critique of institution enables us to reimaging a society of equality**
John A. **Powell 6** is an internationally recognized authority in the areas of civil rights, civil liberties, and issues relating to race, ethnicity, poverty, and the law. He is the Executive Director of the Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity at The Ohio State University. He also holds the Williams Chair in Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at Ohio State's Moritz College of Law. He has written extensively on everything. __“There is No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster: Race, Class, and Hurricane Katrina”__ Edited by Chester Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Professor of Sociology and Public Policy & Public Administration, Chester Hartman, an urban planner and author, is Director of Research for the Poverty & Race Research Action Council, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Thus, </span>broadening how we think and talk about race is critically important <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">for making </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">democracy and </span>democratic ideals are not constricted and "undermined by structural arrangements<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**There is an infinite obligation for government action on Katrina**
**Jorgenson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hurricane Katrina: Humanitarian Obligations and Lessons Learned Ellen Jorgenson Case-Specific Briefing Paper Humanitarian Assistance in Complex Emergencies University of Denver 2011</span>
According to Fred Cuny, the root cause of most disasters is poverty (Van
AND
, NGO and individual reactions to disasters, interpreted through policy and practice.

**The Government works, Federal Government key to avoid capital domination**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chester </span>**Hartman**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Gregory D.</span> **Squires 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Hartman is Director of Research for the Washington, D.C.-based Poverty & Race Research Action Council, for which he was founding Executive Director from 1990-2003. He is also founder and former Chair of The Planners Network, a national organization of progressive urban planners. Squires is a Professor of Sociology, and Public Policy and Public Administration, and Chair of the Department of Sociology at The George Washington University. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Woodstock Institute, the Advisory Board of the john Marshall Law School Fair Housing Legal Support Center in Chicago, and the Social Science Advisory Board of the Poverty & Race Research Action Council.,</span> __“There is No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster: Race, Class, and Hurricane Katrina”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Edited by Chester Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)</span>
In the final chapter, Peter Marcuse of Columbia University's urban planning program describes various
AND
public, private, and nonprofit institutions will be up to the task.

==Contention 3 is Framing== 
**Discussions of race and class are prerequisite to transportation infrastructure**
John A. **Powell 6** is an internationally recognized authority in the areas of civil rights, civil liberties, and issues relating to race, ethnicity, poverty, and the law. He is the Executive Director of the Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity at The Ohio State University. He also holds the Williams Chair in Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at Ohio State's Moritz College of Law. He has written extensively on everything. __“There is No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster: Race, Class, and Hurricane Katrina”__ Edited by Chester Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Professor of Sociology and Public Policy & Public Administration, Chester Hartman, an urban planner and author, is Director of Research for the Poverty & Race Research Action Council, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)
It is clear that we cannot <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">properly</span> address the problem of poverty and our failing
AND
as it relates to race but also on race as a separate dynamic.

**Racism creates a permanent condition of war**
**Mendieta 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting” [[@http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/philosophy/people/faculty_pages/docs/foucault.pdf]])</span>
This is where racism intervenes, not from without, exogenously, but from within
AND
of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.

**Racism outweighs every impact – it’s the precondition to ethical political decision making.**
**MEMMI 2000<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> –</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>struggle against racism will be long<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, difficult, without intermission, without remission</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

**Structural violence outweighs low probability events.**
**Gilman, 83** Dr. Robert C. Gilman, Ph.D. President of Context Institute Founding Editor of IN CONTEXT, A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture One of the articles in The Foundations Of Peace (IC#4) Autumn 1983, Page 8 [[http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:p_T2jwNn8g4J:www.context.org/ICLIB/IC04/Gilman1.htm+nuclear+war+%22structural+violence%22&hl=en]]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">THE HUMAN TENDENCY toward, and preparations for, </span>open warfare are certainly the most
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of the suffering it supports, it is by far our most serious flaw</span>

**Their suppression of volatility makes their impacts inevitable. Must embrace the complex chaos of the world by privileging ontological analysis to make a difference.**
**Taleb and Blyth in 2011**
(Nassim Nicholas, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at New York University's Polytechnic Institute, and Mark, Professor of International Political Economy at Brown University, “The Black Swan of Cairo”, Foreign Affairs, May/June 2011, Vol. 90, Issue 3, rcheek)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Why is surprise the permanent condition of the U.S. political and economic </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">outcome than the other guy, regardless of the actual, delayed cost.</span>

**The opportunity to stop the violence against those who can’t fight back means you vote aff**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chester </span>**Hartman**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Gregory D.</span> **Squires 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Hartman is Director of Research for the Washington, D.C.-based Poverty & Race Research Action Council, for which he was founding Executive Director from 1990-2003. He is also founder and former Chair of The Planners Network, a national organization of progressive urban planners. Squires is a Professor of Sociology, and Public Policy and Public Administration, and Chair of the Department of Sociology at The George Washington University. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Woodstock Institute, the Advisory Board of the john Marshall Law School Fair Housing Legal Support Center in Chicago, and the Social Science Advisory Board of the Poverty & Race Research Action Council.,</span> __“There is No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster: Race, Class, and Hurricane Katrina”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Edited by Chester Hartman and Gregory D Squires, Copyright 2006 by Taylor & Francis Group)</span>
We end with this observation by three academics: The experience of African Americans in
AND
endure their costs (Frymer, Strolovitch, and Warren 2006). Soberwords.