=Affirmative= 
**1AC climate**
**Contention 1: Climate Change**

**And Climate change is past the tipping point**
**Sutley et al 10**(Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP // Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’ [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf|__http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf__]] Published on October 5th, 2010)
Climate change is...of climate change.

**And That disrupts all transportation infrastructure**
<span style="color: #1c31a9;">**EPA ‘12**--[Impacts on Land-Based Transportation; June 14, 2012 < [[http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/impacts-adaptation/transportation.html|__http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/impacts-adaptation/transportation.html__]]>]</span>
Impacts on Roadways... travel and shipping.

**And Status quo lacks a viable plan for transportation infrastructure resilience**
**MacArthur et al 12** – (John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)
In early January 2009, __a severe winter storm hit the Pacific Northwest (PNW). Heavy snow, followed by abundant, warm rain led to extreme flooding and destructive landslides throughout the state of Washington, forcing emergency closures of multiple state and local highway routes, including Interstate 5 and Interstate 90, and the interruption of freight and passenger rail service. The economic consequences from storm effects on the transportation system, including freight disruptions and infrastructure damage, were estimated in the tens of millions of dollars.__ Governor Christine Gregoire eventually requested disaster relief from the federal government (Gregoire, 2009). However, this weather event was not an isolated case. __During the previous winter, a similar storm created crippling conditions in the same areas. The costs of freight delays alone were estimated around $75 million for the winter storm and flooding that closed Interstate 5 and Interstate 90 in the winter of 2007-08__ (WSDOT, 2008).
while we must...towards climate adaptation.

**Contention 2: Hegemony**
**And Absent adaptation measures, climate change will impair airport operation**
**TRBNA, 11** Transportation Research Board of the National Academies ’11 [Transportation Research Board, “ Adapting Transportation to the Impacts of Climate Change”, June 2011, Transportation Research Circular, E-C152, [[http://www.trb.org/Publications/Blurbs/165529.aspx|__http://www.trb.org/Publications/Blurbs/165529.aspx__]] ]
The potential serious...the airport infrastructure.

**And Civilian airport infrastructure is vital to theater airlift and air defense capability**
**Department of the Air Force ’01** [Air Force, “PRESENTATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND MANAGEMENT, UNITED STATES SENATE”, March 21, 2001, Air Force, [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2001_hr/010321js.pdf|__http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2001_hr/010321js.pdf__]] )
The Air National ... Aerospace Expeditionary Force.

**And, flexible rapid reaction of US airpower is crucial to deterring WMD conflicts globally**
**Khalilzad 98** – [Zalmay Khalizad and Ian Lesser, Senior Analysts at RAND Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century, 1998, [[http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf|__http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf__]]]
This subsection attempts ... or North Korea.

**And Climate change increases freight cost**
**Rossetti ’02**[Micheal A. Rossetti, Michael Rossetti is a Strategic Planner and Economist at the DOT Volpe Center. He has served as Executive Agent for the DOT/NSTC initiative on Enhanced Transportation Weather Services. He is member of the User Advisory Group of the US Weather Research Program, and of the OFCM Joint Action Group on Weather Information for Surface Transportation. He is the author of many DOT publications on transportation statistics, and technology development. Previously, he was employed at the Federal Communications Commission and National Research Council. Mr. Rossetti holds a M.A. degree from the Pennsylvania State University and an A.B. from Boston College, “The Potential Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, 2002, [[http://climate.dot.gov/documents/workshop1002/rossetti.pdf|__http://climate.dot.gov/documents/workshop1002/rossetti.pdf__]]]
Climate models suggest ... within the industry.

**And Increased freight cost uniquely impact the steel industry**
**Cooney ‘07**[Stephen Cooney, Congressional Research Service; Resources, Science, and Industry Division at IRL School at Cornell University, “Steel: Price and Policy Issues”, 10-31-2007, [[http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1492&context=key_workplace|__http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1492&context=key_workplace__]]]
Rail transportation costs ... of producing steel.

**And Stable supply of steel key to military infrastructure**
**TNS ‘08** [July 1, 2008 Targeted News Service, “U.S. Steel Industry Critical To Keeping Us Free,”, [[http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/|__http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/__]]]
As we reflect ... uphold that ideal.

**And Global nuclear war**
**Khalilzad, 95**(Zalmay, Rand Corporation. “Losing the Moment?” The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 2, pg. 84, Spring, Lexis)
Under the third ... of power system.

**Plan Text:**
**Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment by adapting transportation systems to climate change.**

**Contention 4: Solvency**

**And Adaptation solves – it’s feasible and it saves money in in the long run.**
**Schwartz**, consultant and an National Academy of Engineering member, in **’10** | Jr, Henry G.” Adaptation to the Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, The Bridge, Fall|
Interactions and relationships ... to future generations.

**And Investment in adaptation tech solves economic consequences**
**DEFRA ‘11**(“Climate Resilient Infrastructure: Preparing for a Changing Climate; Adapting Infrastructure to a Changing Climate”; May 9, 2011 Defra - Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs [[http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/|__www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/__]])
The impact of ... rates of return.


**And Resilient infrastructure is key to avert trade collapse**
**Ganapathy ‘11** (“Disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports – An overview” Madhusudan.C 1 , Ganapathy.G.P 21Research Scholar, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University, Vellore 632014 Professor, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University,Vellore 632014; INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GEOMATICS AND GEOSCIENCES Volume 2, No 2, 2011http:[[http://www.ipublishing.co.in/jggsvol1no12010/voltwo/EIJGGS3037.pdf|__www.ipublishing.co.in/jggsvol1no12010/voltwo/EIJGGS3037.pdf__]])
We are living ... not currently available.

**And Federal leadership key on adaptation policies**
**Sutley et al ‘10** (Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP //Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’// [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf|__//http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf//__]] //Published on October 5th, 2010 )//
The Role of ... Parks and forests.

**And Only federal leadership solves coordination**
**Smith et al ’10** (March 2010, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Terri L Cruce, Stephen Seidel, and Heather A. Hollsinger, Rockfeller Foundation, Pew Science Center Global Climate Change “Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership” [[http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf|__http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf__]])
While many adaptations ... many climate impacts.

**And An increase in federal readiness to address climate change is key – deferring to state action will leave the federal government and FEMA unprepared and incapable of reacting to crises**
**Campbell et. al. 7** CEO and co-founder of the Center for a New American Security and former deputy assistant secretary of defense for Asia and the Pacific, in ‘7 | Kurt M., Jay Gulledge, J.R. McNeill, John Podesta, Peter Ogden, Leon Fuerth, R. James, Woolsey, Alexander T.J. lennon, Julianne Smith, Richard Weitz, and Derek Mix, “The Age of Consequences: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Global Climate Change”, CSIS & Center for a New American Security, November|
The United States ... generate appreciable results.
=Negative=