[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Broadband 1ac== 
**Contention 1 – Inherency – Approximately 1/3 of Americans lack access to broadband in their homes.**
**Smith 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/gerry-smith|Gerry Smith]]Internet Speed In United States Lags Behind Many Countries, Highlighting Global Digital Divide </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Posted: 09/05/2012 7:49 am Updated: 09/05/2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/09/05/internet-speed-united-states-digital-divide_n_1855054.html#slide=more248344</span>
**__For many low-income ...__** **__in a global economy.__**

===**Plan: The United States federal government, specifically congress, will mandate and fully fund the** **installation of high-capacity, dark fiber bundles along all federally-subsidized and direct federal highway projects**. **Congress will also condition federal highway funding on states using incentives for telework.**=== 

**Contention 2 – Solvency**
**First, the plan would solve. A substantial investment in the installation of high-capacity, dark fiber bundles along all federally-subsidized and direct federal highway projects would get broadband to nearly every household in the United States.**
**Lennett and Meinrath 09**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Building a 21st Century Broadband Superhighway A Concrete Build-out Plan to Bring High-Speed Fiber to Every Community By [[http://newamerica.net/user/65|Benjamin Lennett]], [[http://newamerica.net/user/70|Sascha Meinrath]], New America Foundation January 2009 http://www.newamerica.net/publications/policy/building_21st_century_broadband_superhighway</span>
**__Without a substantial investment ...__****__fiber connections to nearly every community in the U.S.__**


**Federal investment in broadband is key to getting private companies involved.**
**Yadon et al 12**
//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Barry Umansky and Dr. Robert Yadon are affiliated with </span>////<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Digital Policy Institute</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">, an independent, interdisciplinary research and policy development organization located at Ball State University in Muncie, IN. </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Read more: </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Top 10 barriers to private investment in broadband infrastructure - FierceTelecomhttp://www.fiercetelecom.com/story/top-10-barriers-private-investment-broadband-infrastructure/2012-09-05#ixzz25jHjXZY7//</span>
//**__Absent a bold vision coming....__****__just remain a concept.__**//

//**The majority of costs associated with broadband have already been figured due to highway improvements.**//
//**Lennett and Meinrath 09**//
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.newamerica.net/files/21stCenturyBroadbandSuperhighway.pdf|Building a 21st Century Broadband Superhighway]]</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> A Concrete Build-out Plan to Bring High-Speed Fiber to Every Community </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Benjamin Lennett and Sascha Meinrath New America Foundation</span>//

//<span class="center" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">January 2009 http://benton.org/node/21074</span>//
//**__A long-term approach ...speeds and lowering prices.__**//



//**Investments in broadband, as a part of transportation infrastructure, will allow all persons access to vital services.**//
//**Moxon 10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Kathleen E. Moxon, Director of the Rural Transportation Policy Group Rural Transportation Policy Group Position Paper September 13, 2010 http://www.ruralassembly.org/document/rural-transportation-policy-group-position-paper</span>//
//**__Connecting rural America with ...__** **__national and global economy.__**//
//**And using broadband as a part of transportation infrastructure is predictable. Arizona started doing it this year.**//
//**O’Grady 12**//
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Phoenix Business Journal by Patrick O'Grady, Reporter Date: Friday, May 11, 2012http:</span>//www.bizjournals.com/phoenix/print-edition/2012/05/11/arizona-dot-to-oversee-rural-broadband.html?page=all
**__Senate Bill 1402, signed...__** <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">which pushed for the law.</span>


**Additionally, the brink for solvency is small – we only have to access 7% to solve.**
**USA Today, 2009**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Leslie Cauley, “Rural Americans long to be linked,” 6/8, http://www.usatoday.com/money/industries/technology/2009-06-07-rural-broadband-digital_N.htm?loc=interstitialskip)</span>
**__By pushing hard on ...__**<span class="Heading4Char">__ubiquitous service__</span>**__, such as power or water.__**


**And the plan is fiscally responsible. It would be a complete waste of tax-payer dollars to lay the broadband later. We must act now.**
**Goluboff 09**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Telecommuting And The Broadband Superhighway by [[http://www.newgeography.com/users/nicole-belson-goluboff|Nicole Belson Goluboff]] Nicole Belson Goluboff is a lawyer in New York who writes extensively on the legal consequences of telework. She is the author of [[http://www.ali-aba.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publications.bookspage&book_code=BK04K|The Law of Telecommuting]] 07/08/2009 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.newgeography.com/content/00885-telecommuting-and-the-broadband-superhighway</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">One strategy these**__...__**</span> **__to get communities online.__**


**Advantage 1 – Food prices**
**First, food prices are high. Costs are rising 300% faster than the price of oil.**
**BR Research 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Global food prices to remain up September 10, 2012 BR RESEARCH</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.brecorder.com/br-research/44:miscellaneous/2767:global-food-prices-to-remain-up/</span>
**__From US to Ukraine,....__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> fell by four percent, MoM.</span>
**And high food prices put food out of reach for 3 billion people.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Thompson 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">The return of the food and energy crisis: structural problems and/or financial</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">speculation? Sean Thompson, November 2011 http://www.4edu.info/images/a/ad/Food_and_energy_crisis_-_Sean_Thompson.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Global food prices have **__,...__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';"> degrees of food insecurity</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">And there is a moral obligation to share food – even if the result of the action is extinction.</span>**
**Watson 77**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">philosophy professor, Washington University, WORLD HUNGER AND MORAL OBLIGATION, 1977, pp. 118-9.</span>
**__One may even have ...__** **__the going gets rough__**.
//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Fortunately, the affirmative solves. Broadband access in the United States is key to keeping world food prices low.</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Peterson 12</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Jess Peterson is the Executive Vice President of the U.S. Cattlemen's Association </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Broadband Keeping America’s Farmers and Ranchers Connected As They Feed the World 3/8/12</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.broadbandforamerica.com/blog/broadband-keeping-america%E2%80%99s-farmers-and-ranchers-connected-they-feed-world</span>
**__Today, one of the ...__** **__the years to come.__**


**Advantage 2 – Economy**
**The economy is falling. We will isolate 2 reasons:**

**First, the manufacturing sector is stumbling.**
**Kowalski 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Manufacturing in U.S. Shrank in August for Third Month By Alex Kowalski on September 04, 2012 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-09-04/ism-index-of-u-dot-s-dot-manufacturing-decreased-to-49-dot-6-in-august</span>
**__Manufacturing in the ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">just going to languish.” </span>

**Secondly, consumer confidence is falling.**
**Bloomberg 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Consumer Confidence in U.S. Declines by Most Since October <span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">By Alex Kowalski - </span></span><span class="datestamp" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">2012-08-28T17:58:32Z</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-declines-by-most-since-october.html</span>
**__Confidence among U.S. consumers ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">have accelerated, he said. </span>


**And economic collapse in the United States would cause millions of deaths due to poverty.**
**Webster 12**
<span style="font-size: 8px;">[[http://www.examiner.com/alex-jones-in-national/teri-webster|Teri Webster]] She also is a freelance journalist and copywriter. In addition to writing, Webster is a digital artist. She earned a B.A. in English Literature/journalism from the Tanking the economy through malfeasance and military might [[http://www.examiner.com/topic/economic-collapse|economic collapse]] August 12, 2012 http://www.examiner.com/article/tanking-the-economy-through-malfeasance-and-military-might</span>
**__People who aren’t working ...__** **__food and other resources.__**
**Fortunately, the plan solves – broadband would immediately provide thousands of jobs in the manufacturing sector.**
**Turner ‘8** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">S. Derek Turner is the research director of Free Press, a national, nonpartisan media policy group. “Down payment on our digital future,” December ttp://www.freepress.net/files/DownPayment_DigitalFuture.pdf)//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">President-elect Obama **__....__**</span>**__technology and communications.__**//



//**And broadband access is key to the economy. Not having broadband in the 21st century is like not having electricity in the 20th.**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Reuters 11</span>**//

//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[“FCC unveils new broadband access program.” October 12, 2011. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-media-fcc-idUSTRE79C02Z20111013]]</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Connect to Compete will be</span>**__...economic value__**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Genachowski said</span>//

//**Additionally, the plan would immediately improve consumer confidence.**//
//**Turner ‘8** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(S. Derek Turner is the research director of Free Press, a national, nonpartisan media policy group. “Down payment on our digital future,” December ttp:</span>//www.freepress.net/files/DownPayment_DigitalFuture.pdf)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">In particular</span>**__, these policies... i__****__nto the digital economy.__**




**Underview**

**First economic interconnectedness stops great power wars. Trends point affirmative.**
**Easterbrook 05**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Easterbrook,</span>****<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> senior fellow at The New Republic, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">05</span> **[Greg, “EXPLAINING 15 YEARS OF DIMINISHING VIOLENCE — The End of War?”,** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://democraticpeace.wordpress.com/2009/05/31/easterbrook-end-of-war/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There is even a </span>**__... ought to take notice__**.
**Deterrence by nuclear weapons checks back any chance of war.**
**Ikenberry 11**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics at Princeton, 11 [Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, “A World of Our Making”, Issue #21, Summer 2011, http://www.democracyjournal.org/21/a-world-of-our-making-1.php?page=all]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There are four reasons ...continuity is introduced into the system.</span>


**Finally, we can only be responsible for our own actions. The negative’s disadvantages should be ruled out on the basis of intervening agents.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Gewirth, prof. of philosophy at the</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">University</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">of</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Chicago, 1982</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Alan, “Human Rights: essays on justification and applications”, p. 229) </span>

**__The required supplement is ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">price of the rights of blacks. </span>
=Negative= 
==Broadband DA== 
**A – The United States is expanding broadband service now.**
**Donald on August 22, 2012**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">MariaDonald ITIF Says U.S. Broadband is Making Progress despite Conclusions in '706 Report'</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Targeted News Servicehttp://www.equities.com/news/headline-story?dt=2012-08-23&val=408360&cat=tech//</span>
//**__"The FCC's__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">latest... residential networking needs.</span>//

//**B – Investing in infrastructure trades off with funding for broadband.**//
//**Lowenstein 11**//
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Evan Lowenstein New Highways for Rural Economic Development: Too Big an “If” July 27th, 2011</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.empirestatefuture.org/geography/state/new-highways-for-rural-economic-development-too-big-an-if/</span>//
//**__Mobility is not t...__** **__of__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">rural </span>**__communities.__**//



//**C – Broadband access is key to the economy. Not having broadband in the 21st century is like not having electricity in the 20th.**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Reuters 11</span>**//

//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[“FCC unveils new broadband access program.” October 12, 2011. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-media-fcc-idUSTRE79C02Z20111013]]</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Connect to Compete will be </span>**__.... value__**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Genachowski said.</span>//
//**D – Economic collapse would be bad. The US would be forced to withdraw from international commitments which increases the chance for conflict.**//
//**Khalilzad 11**//
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ZALMAY KHALILZAD FEBRUARY 8, 2011 4:00 A.M. The Economy and National Security [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1]]</span>//
//**__Without faster economic growth... shedding international commitments__****__.__**//


==//**Habitat Fragmentation DA**//== 

//**A – Uniqueness – the current system is taking trilateral actions to stop habitat fragmentation.**// 
//**CEC 12**// 
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Commission for Environmental Cooperation Story appeared in: The All-Bird Bulletin, Summer 2012</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Building a Continental Partnership for North American Grasslands http://www.cec.org/Page.asp?PageID=122&ContentID=25270</span>//
//**__Habitat fragmentation ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">reaching target population levels.</span>//

//**B – Increases in transportation infrastructure will create habitat fragmentation – this is most significant factor in biodiversity loss.**// 
//**VTI 03**//
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">VTI is the Sweedish National Road and Transport Research InstituteHabit fragmentation due to transportation infrastructure – COST 341 national state-of-the-art report Swedenby Andreas Seiler and LennartFolkeson (editors) Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences SE-73091 Riddarhyttan Sweden VTI (Swedish National Road and Transport Research Institute) SE-581 95 Linköping Sweden ttp:</span>//www.vti.se/sv/publikationer/pdf/biotopfragmentering-till-foljd-av-transportinfrastrukturen-cost-341-svensk-nationell-kunskapsoversikt.pdf
**__Habitat fragmentation has ...__** network be addressed?


**C – A loss of biodiversity is bad – it hurts the economy, reduces peace, and is a greater threat to humyn survival than global warming.**
**Sanjeeva 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Beware the loss of biodiversity </span><span class="dateline" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">September 23, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof. P. J. Sanjeeva Raj Dr. </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">P.J. Sanjeeva Raj</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and Head of the Zoology Department, Madras Christian College http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/open-page/beware-the-loss-of-biodiversity/article3927062.ece</span>
**__Biodiversity or biological diversity__** ...<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the sustainable benefits out of it. </span>


==**Fed Reserve CP**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">CP Text: The Federal Reserve will purchase new long-term bonds from states for the purpose of developing (Fill in the plan).</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Contention 1 – The CP solves and avoids disadvantages</span>**
**First, we have a solvency advocate – the Federal Reserve should do the plan – this is different from the affirmative plan. It would not cause economic disadvantages like the affirmative and would solve 100% of their case. The CP is the ONLY way to increase demand for the plan which is key to solvency. Additionally, since there are excesses in construction and material resources, the CP will fight inflation.**
**Lau 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor Lawrence J. Lau is a Hong Kong economist and former vice-chancellor of the Chinese University of Hong Kong. What should the Fed do to jump-start US economy? Updated: 2012-08-17 06:48</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">By Lawrence J. Lau (HK Edition) http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/hkedition/2012-08/17/content_15682382.htm</span>
**__At this point, ...__** **__the federal as well as state budget deficits.__**

**And the CP spending will be a complete secret. This means there is no political blowback.**
**Sanders 11**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Bernie, Senator from Vermont, The Fed AuditJuly 21, 2011 http://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/news/?id=9e2a4ea8-6e73-4be2-a753-62060dcbb3c3</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The first top-to-bottom ... for everyone else."</span>

==**NIB Nuke Pic**== 
**CP Text: The United States federal government will establish a National Infrastructure Bank for the purpose of increasing investment in non-Nuclear power types of infrastructure.**

**Contention 1 – Plan and CP are mutually exclusive – they defend the entire NIB – we PIC out of something it can fund. Perms are severance and the CP avoids the Nuclear Net-Benefit.**

Contention 2 - Net-benefit
**A – Nuclear power is dead – the majority of the industry is dying and more plants are set to be shut down. This is largely due to a lack of funding.**
**Wallace and Williams 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nuclear Energy in America: Preventing its Early Demise Michael Wallace and Sarah Williams Center for Strategic and International Studies Global Forecast http://csis.org/files/publication/120417_gf_wallace_williams.pdf</span>
<span class="A5">**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">America’s nuclear energy ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> and could be retired early.</span>__**</span>

**B – The affirmative plan changes this - A National Infrastructure Bank would include funding for nuclear energy.**
**Marshall 10**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The President’s New Gamble </span><span class="entry-date" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">10/12/2010</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.progressivepolicy.org/category/blog/|Blog]]By [[http://www.progressivepolicy.org/author/wmarshall/|Will Marshall]] Will Marshall is the president of the Progressive Policy Institute. http://www.progressivepolicy.org/2010/10/the-president%E2%80%99s-new-gamble/</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">That’s a shame, because ...up-front investments.”</span>


**C – New nuclear plants increase the chance of nuclear proliferation due to inspection issues.**
**Makhijani 04**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Arjun MAKHIJANI, president of inst. For energy and env 04. Research, Journal of Land, resources, and Environmental Law, Atomic muths, radioactive realities: why nuclear power is a poor way to meet energy needs. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sric.org/voices/2003/v4n4/arjun_makhijani.html|http://www.sric.org/voices/ 2003/v4n4/arjun_makhijani.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> If the world continues ...power plants are still running.</span>
**D – Proliferation causes extinction.**
<span class="cardChar2">**Utgoff, 02**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Victor A, Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of Institute for Defense Analysis, Summer, Survival, p.87-90)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In sum, widespread</span> **__...__** **__even whole nations.__**

==**NIB Energy Efficient CP**== 
**CP Text: The United States federal government will establish a National Infrastructure Bank. Funds from the bank may be used for transportation infrastructure and energy efficiency.**

**Contention 1- The plan and the CP are mutually exclusive – cross-x proves that they are not going to be able to fund energy efficiency.**

**Contention 2 – Solvency –**
**A – The CP solves better than the plan – Most of the job creation from the NIB is from non-transportation sector jobs, like energy efficiency programs.**
**Woody 08**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The First National Bank of Green November 19, 2008 by </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thegreenwombat.com/author/todddw/|Todd Woody]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://thegreenwombat.com/2008/11/19/the-first-national-bank-of-green/</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“We’re calling for... demand for green building materials.</span>

**B – Energy efficiency reduces CO2.**
**Johnson 10**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Potential Energy, Cost, and CO2 Savings from Energy-Efficient Government Purchasing1 Jeffrey Harris, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Francis Johnson, Stockholm EnvironmentInstitute2 http://www1.eere.energy.gov/femp/pdfs/government_purchasing.pdf</span>
**__Reducing emissions of ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> nationally or by region).</span>


**C - Unmitigated carbon emissions cause extinction- ocean acidification**
**Romm 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Joe Romm 12 is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/2012, [[http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogre]])</span>
**__The world’s oceans ...__****__need for reef and shell-building.__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Duplicative programs would slow down solvency – the agencies wouldn’t know which agency to go to in order to get funding – this means that the CP alone is better than the plan.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Cooper 12</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Meeting the Infrastructure Imperative</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">An Affordable Plan to Put Americans Back to Work Rebuilding Our Nation’s Infrastructure</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Donna Cooper </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy Team at the Center for American Progress. Her portfolio of policy work includes federal infrastructure policy. Before coming to CAP in 2010, she served for eight years as the secretary of policy and planning for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> February 2012 p. 72</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Some members of Congress ... bridges in the federal highway system.</span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]