Brittany is the dopest girl in the world (so are Sydney Griggs and Luz Lopez) - mess with them, shit gets realzz -Kris Colen.
.If you choose to, you can mess with Lani. I won't mind.. she is a horrible person anyways. But I don't reccomend it.


Dear Kris Colen, if you must write on our wiki, please spell things correctly. Thanks! -Lani



Cite requests or questions?
**NOTE - we recently switched speaker positions so please contact the right person!
Aff: lanikathrynfrazer@gmail.com
Neg: brittanygamlen123@gmail.com
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC - Fullerton== 
**The Advantage is Black Gold -**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Oil is the lifeblood of American political culture. The mindless maximization of the consumption of oil is tied to our national identity. The call to investigate oil addiction naturalizes America’s entitlement to oil </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Huber 2009** (Matthew T. Huber, Graduate School of Geography – Clark University, “The Use of Gasoline: Value, Oil, and the “American way of life”,” Antipode, Vol. 41, No. 3, pp 465-486, 2009, azp) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Now that gasoline is seen as ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> **basic aspect in the constitution of life itself.** </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As such, oil represents an intersection of social power. Its naturalization is closely tied to the ways in which oil is represented by oil companies and intervenes against capitalism’s theft of agency</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Huber 2011** (Matthew T. Huber, Graduate School of Geography – Clark University, “Oil, Life, and the Fetishism of Geopolitics, Capitalism Nature Socialism, Vol.2 22, No. 3, 32-48, 2011, azp) </span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Unifying these discourses is a remarkable **...**</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> ‘‘use values’’ we now enjoy from petroleum. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Likewise, oil’s centrality to the American psyche reveals that the status quo attempt to sequester anxieties over unsustainable oil consumption is implicated in a broader fear of uncertainty</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Huber 2009** (Matthew T. Huber, Graduate School of Geography – Clark University, “The Use of Gasoline: Value, Oil, and the “American way of life”,” Antipode, Vol. 41, No. 3, pp 465-486, 2009, azp) </span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Gasoline’s position within the imaginative...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> reforms are increasingly positioned. </span>



**Oil is the root of American consumerism. The way we view transportation shapes our outlook on the world**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cave 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (By DAMIEN CAVE- B.A. from Boston College and an M.S. from Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism Published in NYT: May 6, 2008)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If experience with such gas tax “holidays” i...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">did not necessarily behave rationally.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This fundamental uncertainty has grim implications for the direction of American foreign policy. The history of oil acquisition is written in blood – the seizure of petroleum occurs through dispossession, accompanied by violence and colonial brutality. As long as oil remains as the constitutive locus of American foreign policy the oil industry will consciously destabilize the Middle East in order to prolong an era of profit and military adventurism. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Huber 2009** (Matthew T. Huber, Graduate School of Geography – Clark University, “The Use of Gasoline: Value, Oil, and the “American way of life”,” Antipode, Vol. 41, No. 3, pp 465-486, 2009, azp) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">How have critical geographers and ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">production, but also of circulation.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And, great power wars are inevitable while oil remains the core criterion for political action – the finitude of oil reserves combined with a history of OPEC antagonism makes confrontation unavoidable. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Huber 2009** (Matthew T. Huber, Graduate School of Geography – Clark University, “Lifeblood: Geographies of Petro-Capitalism in the United States”,” Graduate dissertation, Submitted to the faculty of Clark University-Worcester-Massachusetts in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the Department of Geography, May 2009, azp)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Thus, the third contradiction of US ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (or at least hoped for) economic recovery?</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Defiance against the brutal system of petro-capitalism must begin at the level of the self. We think it’s important to acknowledge individual complicity. Everyday actions, at the local level, inform global power and energy struggles. It is necessary to critically inquire into the structures we participate in that prop up the hegemony of petro-capitalism. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Huber 2009** (Matthew T. Huber, Graduate School of Geography – Clark University, “Lifeblood: Geographies of Petro-Capitalism in the United States”,” Graduate dissertation, Submitted to the faculty of Clark University-Worcester-Massachusetts in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the Department of Geography, May 2009, azp)</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">How is hegemony realized in the system ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">competition, and private property.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Complicity in automobility is slaughter – the processes by which oil is obtained are murderous, and individual complacency perpetuates the system.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Böhm et al 2006** (Steffen Böhm, Campbell Jones, Chris Land, Mat Paterson, Steffen Böhm is Professor in Management and Sustainability at the University of Essex, The Sociological Review, Vol. 54, Issue supplement s1, pp 1-16, October 2006, “Part One Conceptualizing Automobility: Introduction: Impossibilities of automobility,” azp)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A second antagonism, which seems well...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> through post-industrial suburbia.</span>


**Automobility is a representation of inequality**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Kari </span>**<span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hensley</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">, PHD @ NYU in comm, March </span>**<span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2010 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">American Quarterly, Volume 62, Number 1, pp. 173-180 (Review)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">These acts of automotive freedom...</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> American renders some as “inauthentic</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">.”</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The reproduction of oil-centric discourse is inextricably tied to the Eurocentric basis of modern capitalism. The class compromise that enabled petro-capitalism as we know it also enabled the widespread ecological and social inequity that underpins American exceptionalism.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Huber 2011** (Matthew T. Huber, Graduate School of Geography – Clark University, “Oil, Life, and the Fetishism of Geopolitics, Capitalism Nature Socialism, Vol.2 22, No. 3, 32-48, 2011, azp) </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This new ‘‘way of life’’ centered upon ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">consumption and the production of waste. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">As an act of imagining a world after cars:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brittany and I ask you to imagine a world without oil in which the United States federal government substantially increases its investment in active transportation infrastructure in the form of bike lanes.</span>**



**Solvency**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This act of imagining past the status quo deadlock on increasing support for active transportation is a discursive intervention into broader systems of control</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Herr 12** (Samantha Z., University of Kentucky, “Biopolitics of Bike Commuting: Bike Lanes, Safety, and Social Justice”, Theses and Dissertations, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://uknowledge.uky.edu/geography_etds/2]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Since the car boom</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> of the</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ...equitable and fearless future?</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Imagining alternatives to fossil fuel based transportation discursively intervenes in the mode of intelligibility that renders consumption invisible</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Herr 12** (Samantha Z., University of Kentucky, “Biopolitics of Bike Commuting: Bike Lanes, Safety, and Social Justice”, Theses and Dissertations, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://uknowledge.uky.edu/geography_etds/2]]</span>,)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Efforts toward social equity ...doing for cycling safety in Boston?</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">More specifically, Imagining a world after cars creates an epistemic break which is a prerequisite to thinking novel responses to the sustainability crisis</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Urry 2004**,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (John, Professor of Sociology at Lancaster University, “The 'System' of Automobility,” Theory, Culture & Society, Oct 1, 2004, p. 32-33, [[http://tcs.sagepub.com/content/21/4-5/25.full.pdf+html]]).</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Thus in order to break with the current </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">...into a new path (see Gladwell, 2000; Sheller and Urry, 2000).</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Combatting petro-capitalism necessitates not only a reconceptualization</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of US energy profligacy, but also a critical inquiry into the epistemological basis of the capitalist system.</span>**
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Huber</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 2009 </span>**(Matthew T. Huber, Graduate School of Geography – Clark University, “Lifeblood: Geographies of Petro-Capitalism in the United States”,” Graduate dissertation, Submitted to the faculty of Clark University-Worcester-Massachusetts in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the Department of Geography, May 2009, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">//azp//)</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Although chapters two, three and ...</span> imagining a society beyond capital.




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our open ended strategy is necessary to open a form of agency outside of the status quo’s ideological blinders</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brincat, 2k9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Shannon, U of Queensland, “Reclaiming the Utopian imaginary in IR theory”, Review of International Studies (2009), 35, 581-609)</span>



<span style="color: #231f20; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">When Mannheim is portrayed in this ...</span> imaginary as a process for human agency<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Imagining the impossible is a necessary prerequisite to challenging dominant status quo modes of intelligibility </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brincat, 2k9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Shannon, U of Queensland, “Reclaiming the Utopian imaginary in IR theory”, //Review of International Studies (2009), 35, 581-609//)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sometime in the shadowy inter-war ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> utopia than has hitherto existed in history.</span>




==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC - UMich</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">At the far end of townwhere the Grickle-grass growsand the wind smells slow-and-sour when it blowsand no birds ever sing excepting old crows...is the Street of the Lifted Lorax.And deep in the Grickle-grass, some people say,if you look deep enough you can still see, today,where the Lorax once stoodjust as long as it couldbefore somebody lifted the Lorax away.What was the Lorax?And why was it there?And why was it lifted and taken somewherefrom the far end of town where the Grickle-grass grows?The old Once-ler still lives here.Ask him. He knows.You won't see the Once-ler.Don't knock at his door.He stays in his Lerkim on top of his store.He lurks in his Lerkim, cold under the roof,where he makes his own clothesout of miff-muffered moof.And on special dank midnights in August,he peeksout of the shuttersand sometimes he speaksand tells how the Lorax was lifted away.He'll tell you, perhaps...if you're willing to pay.On the end of a ropehe lets down a tin pailand you have to toss in fifteen centsand a nailand the shell of a great-great-great-grandfather snail.Then he pulls up the pail,makes a most careful countto see if you've paid himthe proper amount.Then he hides what you paid himaway in his Snuvv,his secret strange holein his gruvvulous glove.Then he grunts, "I will call you by Whisper-ma-Phone,for the secrets I tell you are for your ears alone."SLUPP!Down slupps the Whisper-ma-Phone to your earand the old Once-ler's whispers are not very clear,since they have to come downthrough a snergelly hose,and he soundsas if he hadsmallish bees up his nose."Now I'll tell you,"he says, with his teeth sounding gray,"how the Lorax got lifted and taken away...It all started way back...such a long, long time back...</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Way back in the days when the grass was still green</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and the pond was still wet</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and the clouds were still clean,</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and the song of the Swomee-Swans rang out in space...one morning, **__I came to this glorious place.__**</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And I first saw the trees</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">!</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">The Truffula Trees!</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">The bright-colored tufts of the Truffula Trees!</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Mile after mile in the fresh morning breeze.And, under the trees, I saw Brown Bar-ba-lootsfrisking about in their Bar-ba-loot suitsas they played in the shade and ate Truffula fruits.From the rippulous pondcame the comfortable soundof the Humming-Fish hummingwhile splashing around.But those trees! Those trees!</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Those Truffula Trees!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">All my life I'd been searching</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">for trees such as these.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">The touch of their tufts</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">was much softer than silk.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And they had the sweet smellof fresh butterfly milk.I felt a great leapingof joy in my heart.I knew just what I'd do!</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I unloaded my cart.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">In no time at all, I had built a small shop.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Then I chopped down a Truffula Tree with one chop</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And with great skillful skill and with great speedy speed,</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I took the soft tuft, and I knitted a Thneed!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">The instant I'd finished, I heard a ga-Zump!</span>__**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I looked.</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I saw something pop out of the stump</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">of the tree I'd chopped down. It was sort of a man.Describe him?... That's hard. I don't know if I can.He was shortish. And oldish.And brownish. And mossy.And he spoke with a voicethat was sharpish and bossy."Mister!" he said with a sawdusty sneeze,</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"I am the Lorax.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I speak for the trees.</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I speak for the trees, for the trees have no tongues.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And I'm asking you, sir, at the top if my lungs"-</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">he was very upset as he shouted and puffed-</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"What's that THING you've made out of my Truffula tuft?"</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"Look, Lorax," I said</span>__**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">."There's no cause for alarm.</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I chopped just one tree. I am doing no harm.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I'm being quite useful</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">. This thing is a Thneed.</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">A Thneed's a Fine-Something-That-All-People-Need!</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">It's a shirt. It's a sock. It's a glove, It's a hat.But it has other uses. Yes, far beyond that.You can use it for carpets. For pillows! For sheets!Or curtains! Or covers for bicycle seats!"The Lorax said,"Sir! You are crazy with greed.There is no one on earthwho would buy that fool Thneed!"But the very next minute I proved he was wrong.For, just at that minute, a chap came along,and he thought the Thneed I had knitted was great.He happily bought it for three ninety-eightI laughed at the Lorax, "You poor stupid guy!You never can tell what some people will buy.""I repeat," cried the Lorax,"I speak for the trees!"</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"I'm busy," I told him.</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"Shut up, if you please."</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I rushed 'cross the room, and </span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">in no time at all,built a radio-phone. I **__put in a quick call.__**</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I called all my</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">brothers and uncles and aunts</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and I said, "Listen here! Here's a wonderful chance</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">for the whole Once-ler Family to get mighty rich!</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Get over here fast! Take the road to North Nitch.Turn left at Weehawken. Sharp right at South Stitch."</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And, in no time at all,</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">in the factory I built,</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">the whole Once-ler Family</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">was working full tilt.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">We were all knitting Thneeds</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">just as busy as bees,</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">to the sound of the chopping</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">of Truffula Trees</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Then...Oh! Baby! Oh!</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">How my business did grow!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Now, chopping one tree</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">at a time</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">was too slow.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">So I quickly invented my Super-Axe-Hacker</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">which whacked off four Truffula Trees at one smacker.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">We were making Thneeds</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">four times as fast as before</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">!And that Lorax?...He didn't show up any more.But the next weekhe knockedon my new office door.He snapped, **__"I am the Lorax__** who speaks for the trees</span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">which you seem to be chopping as fast as you please.But I'm also **__in charge of the Brown Bar-ba-loots__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">who played in the shade in their Bar-ba-loot suits</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and happily lived, eating Truffula Fruits.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"NOW... thanks to your hacking my trees to the ground,</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">there's not enought Truffula Fruit to go 'round.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And **__my poor Bar-ba-loots__** are all getting the crummiesbecause they **__have__** gas, and **__no food, in their tummies__**!"They loved living here. </span><span class="underline">But I can't let them stay. They'll have to find food. And I hope that they may. Good luck, boys," he cried. </span>Andhe sent them away<span class="underline">. I</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">, the old Once-ler, felt sadas I watched them all go**__.__**</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">BUT...</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">business is business!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And business must grow</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">regardless of crummies in tummies, you know.I meant no harm. I most truly did not.</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">But I had to grow bigger.So bigger I got.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I biggered my factory. I biggered my roads.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I biggered my wagons. I biggered the loadsof the Thneeds I shipped out. I was shipping them forthto the South! To the East! To the West! To the North!I went right on biggering... selling more Thneeds.</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And I biggered my money, which everyone needs.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Then again he came back! </span>__**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">was fixing some pipeswhen that old-nuisance Lorax came back with more gripes.</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"I am the Lorax,"</span>__**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">he coughed and he whiffed**__.__**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">He sneezed and he snuffled. He snarggled. He sniffed.</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"Once-ler!" he cried with a cruffulous croak.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"Once-ler! You're making such smogulous smoke!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">My poor Swomee-Swans...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">why, they can't sing a note!No one can sing who has smog in his throat."And so," said the Lorax,"-please pardon my cough-</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">they cannot live here.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">So I'm sending them off.</span>__**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Where will they go?...I don't hopefully know.</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">They may have to fly for a month... or a year...</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">To escape from the smog you've smogged up around here.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"What's more,"</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;"> snapped the Lorax. (</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">His dander was up.)</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"Let me say a few words </span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">about Gluppity-Glupp.</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Your machine chugs on, day and night without stop</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">making Gluppity-Glupp. Also Schloppity-Schlopp.</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And what do you do with this leftover goo?...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I'll show you. You dirty old Once-ler man, you!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"You're glumping the pond where the Humming-Fish hummed!</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">No more can they hum, for**__their gills are all gummed.__**</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">So I'm sending them off. </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Oh, their future is dreary.</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">They'll walk on their fins and get woefully weary</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">in search of some water that isn't so smeary."</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And then I got mad.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I got terribly mad.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I yelled at the Lorax, "Now listen here, Dad!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">All you do is yap-yap and say, 'Bad! Bad! Bad! Bad!'</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Well, I have my rights, sir, and I'm telling you</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I intend to go on doing just what I do!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And, for your information, you Lorax, I'm </span>__**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">figgeringOn **__biggering__**</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and BIGGERING</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">BIGGERING</span>__**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">andBIGGERING,</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">turning MORE Truffula Trees into Thneeds</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">which everyone, EVERYONE, </span>__**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">EVERYONE **__needs!"__**</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And at that very moment, we heard a loud whack!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">From outside in the fields came a sickening smack</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">of an axe on a tree. Then we heard the tree fall.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">The very last Truffula Tree of them all!</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">No more trees. No more Thneeds. No more work to be done.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">So, in no time, my uncles and aunts, every one,</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">all waved me good-bye. They jumped into my cars</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and drove away under the smoke-smuggered stars.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Now all that was left 'neath the bad smelling-sky</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">was my big empty factory...</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">the Lorax...</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and I</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">The Lorax said nothing. Just gave me a glance...just gave me a very sad, sad backward glance...as he lifted himself by the seat of his pants.And I'll never forget the grim look on his facewhen he heisted himself and took leave of this place,through a hole in the smog, without leaving a trace.And all that the Lorax left here in this messwas a small pile of rocks, with one word..."UNLESS."Whatever that meant, well, I just couldn't guess.That was long, long ago.But each day since that day</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I've sat here and </span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">worriedand worried away.Through the years, while my buildingshave fallen apart**__,__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">I've worried about it</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">with all of my heart.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"But now," says the Once-ler,</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"Now that you're here,</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">the word of the Lorax seems perfectly clear.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">UNLESS someone like you</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">cares a whole awful lot,</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">nothing is going to get better.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">It's not.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">"SO...Catch!" calls the Once-ler.He lets something fall."It's a Truffula Seed.It's the last one of all!</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">You're in charge of the last of the Truffula Seeds.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">And Truffula Trees are what everyone needs.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Plant a new Truffula.Treat it with care.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Give it clean water. And feed it fresh air.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Grow a forest. Protect it from axes that hack.</span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Then the Lorax </span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">and all of his friends </span>__****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">may come back</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">."</span>__**


**Transportation infrastructure investment is part of a system that changes the image of nature to a dead ting, removing all limitations for exploitation. The reductionist worldview that sees money as alive and nature as dead controls our lives and legitimizes the exploitation of people**
**Nhanenge 11**

The industrial life of European society increasingly included....the ultimate irony of this transformation is the name they gave it: rationality.


**Current focus on economic efficiency destroys nature and society**
**Nhanenge 11**

However, governments overlook efforts to include these externalities.... they conceal who bears the costs and who reaps the benefits.


**Focus on economic growth leads to exploitation of the environment and people, leading to extinction**
**Foster 2**

The consequences of such shortsighted attention to economic growth....ecologically, economically, politically, and morally - and must be superseded.


**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States by planting trees on all roads throughout the United States.**


**Trees are the lungs of the Earth. The Once-ler asks us to plant the seeds of Truffula Trees to make up for our damage done to the planet and to provide a place to live for the animals we have chased away. Deforestation and overconsumption lead to global warming - more trees can prevent this**
**SF Environment 8**

Trees are not only beautiful....protecting our forests keeps our planet cool.


**Understanding the environmental crisis is key to finding new alternatives and shifting our mindsets - the aff is a prerequisite to change**
**Maniates 1**

So why the amazing popularity of the Lorax...a topic we know is out there but would rather avoid.


**Promoting understanding of the issue in the debate space is a way of educating others for the public good**
**Maniates 1**

There's another reason though, why the book....speak politely and individually; armed only with facts.


**Intrinsic value extends beyond people - we must understand that nature should not be viewed instrumentally**
**Greenwood 00**

On the other hand, it may be considered that....include insentient beings dilutes its moral significance.


**Representations and discourse come first - discourse shapes how we perceive the world and how we create effective policies. Discourse analysis is important in context of the environment**
**Backstrand and Lovbrand 6**

Global environmental change in general....articulate and set the term for discourse.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">The AFF an eco-sophical stance that rethinks the relationship between the self and nature and between nature and culture. The Affirmative stance is LITERALLY a pre-requisite to any critical or political questions about the potential implications of the effects of the AFF. An Affirmative ballot represents embracing ecosophy as a means to fundamentally change the way humans interact with the environment.</span>**
**Tinnell 11**

Transversality, as can be surmised Watson's insightful work on Guattari....the people yet to come, or at least, the eco-humanities yet to come.

=Negative= 

==Fullerton== 
Round 1 - San Marino SS (Mayport)
2NR - Cap K

Round 3 - San Dieguito HW (ITS)
2NR - Ecofem K

Round 5 - Loyola AC (Guam)
2NR - Ecofem K


==UMich== 
Round 2 - Dowling AL (Mayport)
2NR - Ecofem K

Round 3 - Dowling WZ (Alaska Ports)
2NR - Ecofem K

Round 6 - Johns Creek SS (Nuclear Statism)
2NR - Ecofem K


==Glenbrooks== 
Round 1 - Kinkaid RC (JARC)
2NR - Ecofem K

Round 3 - St. Marks ST (NIB)
2NR - Cap K

Round 6- Wooster GS (Port Security)
2Nr- Ecofem K

Round 7- Lane Tech College Prep LK (Inland Waterways)
2NR- Ecofem K

==UT== 
Round 2- Bellarmine College Prep MF (Carbon Pipelines)
2NR- Fiscal Cliff DA

Round 3- Smithville BM (Port Dredging)
2NR- Cap K

Round 6- Midway SC (Ableism)
2NR- Cap K
==Golden Desert== 
Round 2- Westminster PB (NIB)
2NR- Cap K

Round 3- East WO (NextGen)
2NR- Ecofem K

Round 5- Westminster KS (Port Dredging)
2NR- Ecofem K

==Stanford== 
Round 1- La Costa GY (NextGen)
2NR- Ecofem K

Round 2-Chaminade FH (Ableism)
2NR- Cap K

Round 6- Lynbrook LK (Structural Violence)
2NR- Cap K

==Cal== 
Round 1- Notre Dame BD (NextGen)
2NR- Fem K of Science

Round 4- Boise RV (Space Elevators)
2NR-Ecofem K

Round 6-Ashland BK (Icebreakers)
2NR- Ecofem K

==NDCA== 
Round 1 - Jesuit College Prep FW (Inland Waterways)
2NR - Ecofem K

Round 2 - St. Marks KP (NIB)
2NR - Heg Rhetoric K

Round 3- Greenhill RL (Tax Incentives)
2NR-Cap K