=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February]][[#January-February]]January-February</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative]][[#January-February-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan Texts</span>=== 
Drug Courts Plan: The United States Federal Government will Expand the Webster County drug court program to all states in the US

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Util AC v1 (Full Text Disclosure, Cites Below)</span>=== 
The aff advocacy is expansion of status quo rehabilitation programs, with a decrease in retributive policies.

Lipsey and Cullen 1 define rehabilitation

Rehabilitation treatment is distinguished from correctional sanctions by the centrality of interactions with the offenders aimed at motivating, guiding, and supporting constructive change in whatever characteristics or circumstances engender their criminal behavior or subvert their prosocial behavior. It is typically provided in conjunction with some form of sanction (e.g., incarceration or probation) but is not defined by that sanction and, in principle, could be delivered without any accompanying sanction. Cognitive behavioral therapy, for instance, involves exercises and instruction designed to alter the dysfunctional thinking patterns exhibited by many offenders [e.g., a focus on dominance in interpersonal relationships, feelings of entitlement, self-justification, displacement of blame, and unrealistic expectations about the consequences of antisocial behavior (Walters 1990)].

The standard is maximizing expected well-being

First, in order for moral claims to have value, they must be concerned with maximizing well-being Harris

Many moral skeptics piously cite Hume’s is/ought distinction as though it were well known to be the last word on the subject of morality until the end of the world. They insist that notions of what we ought to do or value can be justified only in terms of other ‘oughts,’ never in terms of facts about the way the world is. After all, in a world of physics and chemistry, how could things like moral obligations or values really exist? How could it be objectively true, for instance, that we ought to be kind to children? / But this notion of ‘ought’ is an artificial and needlessly confusing way to think about moral choice. In fact, it seems to be another dismal product of Abrahamic religion—which, strangely enough, now constrains the thinking of even atheists. If this notion of ‘ought’ means anything we can possibly care about, it must translate into a concern about the actual or potential experience of conscious beings (either in this life or some other). For instance, to say that we ought to treat children with kindness seems identical to saying that everyone will tend to be better off if we do. The person who claims that he does not want to be better off is either wrong about what he does, in fact, want (i.e., he doesn’t know what he’s missing), or he is lying, or he is not making sense.

Second, in context, states must ignore act-omission distinctions Sunstein

In our view, both the argument from causation and the argument from intention go wrong by overlooking the distinctive features of government as a moral agent. Whatever the general status of the act-omission distinction as a matter of moral philosophy, the distinction is least impressive when applied to government poi. The most fundamental point is that [U]nlike individuals, governments always and necessarily face a choice between or among possible policies for regulating third parties. The distinction between acts and omissions may not be intelligible in this context, and even if it is, the distinction does not make a morally relevant difference. Most generally, [G]overnment is in the business of creating permissions and prohibitions. When it explicitly or implicitly authorizes private action, it is not omitting to do anything or refusing to act. Moreover, the distinction between authorized and unauthorized private action – for example, private killing – becomes obscure when government formally forbids private action but chooses a set of policy instruments that do not adequately or fully discourage it. The lack of an act-omission distinction necessitates util because it forces us to view the end-state as one with the action. So, all state actions must maximize the best end state.

Recidivism Advantage

A meta-meta study of 108 meta-studies comprehensively proves that rehabilitation is most effective in reducing recidivism Lipsey and Cullen 2

Our purpose here is to take a broad overview of virtually all the existing meta-analyses on rehabilitation treatments as a way to appraise the current state of evidence about their effectiveness for reducing recidivism. The most general result available from these meta-analyses is an estimate of the overall mean effect size across diverse samples of studies of different rehabilitation treatments applied to general offender samples. Table 2 summarizes the major meta-analyses that focus on recidivism outcomes for adjudicated offenders. As shown in Table 2, every one of these meta-analyses found mean effect sizes favorable to treatment, and none found less than a 10% average reduction in recidivism. Most of their mean effect sizes represent recidivism reductions in the 20% range, varying upward to nearly 40%. It is especially notable that there is no overlap in the range of mean effect sizes found in meta-analysis of rehabilitation treatment and that found for meta-analyses of the effects of sanctions and supervision (Table 1). The smallest mean recidivism effect size found in any metaanalysis of a general collection of rehabilitation studies is bigger than the largest one found in any meta-analysis of the effects of sanctions.

And, prefer meta-studies because they are most statistically sound, especially in studies of correctional intervention Lipsey and Cullen 3

The strongest designs assign relatively large numbers of offenders randomly to intervention and control conditions, maintain high fidelity to the intervention plan, and have little attrition from the assigned conditions or the data collection on the recidivism measures. Such true experiments can be difficult to implement for correctional interventions, and much of the available research comes from quasi-experiments with nonrandomized control groups, [and] modest sample sizes, and varying completion and attrition rates. Hundreds of experimental and quasiexperimental studies of correctional interventions have been conducted in recent decades. Collectively they provide a large body of relevant evidence, one so large that it is not easy to summarize the patterns in their findings. A particularly comprehensive and discriminating technique for this purpose is metaanalysis, a systematic quantitative form of research synthesis that revolves around statistical effect sizes constructed to represent the differences in outcomes between intervention and control groups across multiple studies (Cooper 1998).

Finally, recidivism has three impacts Wilson

The effects of recidivism in the United States fall into four general categories. First, recidivism imposes tremendous public safety costs on American communities; high recidivism rates indicate additional victimizations (assuming that the crime for which the juvenile was arrested was in fact committed). Second, increased recidivism results in extremely destructive social costs; increases in violence, crime, homelessness, [and] family destabilization, and public health risks are all associated with high recidivism rates. Third, recidivism imposes a considerable financial burden on the U.S. Department of Justice and, more generally, on American society; our government spends an annual sixty billion dollars on correctional programs. Fourth, high recidivism indicates a failure to provide meaningful rehabilitation for inmates reentering the community; recidivist juveniles lose out on crucial educational, social, and personal developments that can rarely be regained. Additionally, studies show that recurrent offenses during teenage years can provide a dangerous inculcation leading to adult criminality. The tragedy of this cycle of criminality cannot be understated.

Economy Advantage

A - US is on the verge of economic collapse Elite Daily 11/28

Debt worries on the European periphery have turned into fears of contagion to core countries such as Italy and France. And while the US debt ceiling show-down has been postponed, GDP of 0.4% in Q1 and 1.0% in Q2 raise concerns that the US is falling into a second recession. Handicapping the risk of a double-dip is difficult. Some economists posit a “stall theory,” in which GDP below 1% foreshadows a recession. This criteria was fulfilled in 82% of post-war recessions, but also gave false positives on at least 7 non-recessions. Recent weak GDP therefore points only weakly to a new recession, particularly since the impairment due to Japan’s Dai-ichi disaster is likely to reverse itself in H2. The more disconcerting possibility is that uncertainty and flagging confidence precipitate a reinforcing downward spiral. Consumer sentiment is an unreliable indicator of recessions (eg, the steep decline in 2005 was misleading), but the combination with heightened uncertainty presents a real risk. Many economists peg the risk of a recession in the 35-45% range, and we agree that the risks have risen.

B - By decreasing crime, rehab saves the government a lot of money Wachtel

Cost savings as a measure of the success of RJ is of special interest to governments and lawmakers. A program that can reduce re-offending can lower the future costs of trying cases, incarcerating and administering other legal sanctions for offenders and providing victim services. The JRC programs produced statistically significant savings: “[15 Dollars for every 2 dollars spent] Nine pounds saved for every one pound spent,” said Strang. The report concludes that “JRC produced a net benefit in terms of reconviction (the sums saved in decreased reconviction were greater than the cost of running the scheme), whilst CONNECT and REMEDI produced a net cost. Hence JRC had produced value for money” (Shapland et al., 2008, p. vi). Commented Shapland: “Conferencing seems to have somewhat more positive results than other RJ schemes, and there are good reasons for that. Because [the conference] is pulling together support from those close to an offender, as well as the supporters of victims, it gives a boost to those who are trying to stop offending. Whereas mediation seems to be less future focused; they tended to talk more about the offense and the effect on victims, rather than on what’s going to happen now.”

C - US economic collapse causes WWIII Hamer 10

Due to the fact that the US has assumed the bank debts and added them to the national budget and their already extreme increase in national debts – one billion dollars worth foreign credits is needed per day – the biggest financial crisis since World War II has arrived. If the cash flow from abroad ceased or foreign countries decided to escape the dollar, the US would be bankrupt. Nevertheless, the US is not making sufficient efforts to reduce their growing national debts with cost-cutting measures. Neither do their raise taxes to generate more income, nor do they try to cut their budget, especially not their enormously grown military budget. The US has employed 200 000 soldiers in combat missions worldwide. Therefore nobody understood when the biggest warlord in the world, despite increased force levels, obtained the Nobel Peace Prize. A possible explanation: he received the prize as a precaution, because it depends mainly on him if there is a war in Iran or not. In history, politicians who were economically at an end have often opted for war as a last resort to maintain power. This has even be truer for a country in a crisis, which sees war as a way out of an economic crisis. This is how the US surmounted the biggest depression of the 20th century by entering World War I, as well as the Great Depression by entering World War II, and now they could try to solve their third crisis in the same way. We should not forget that both world wars enabled the US not only to overcome their enormous national debts, but they also developed into the leading economic power of the world. The temptation to go the same way a third time is big. Furthermore, Israel has positioned the atomic submarines delivered from Germany with nuclear missiles in front of Iran, and in Georgia they not only rebuilt a nuclear missile position which was destroyed by Russia one and a half years ago, and which faces Iran, but fortified them with 90 US missile experts. Military preparations are already advanced. Although the US military has not yet succeeded in “pacifying” the two neighbouring states Iraq and Afghanistan, they have practiced their biggest military concentration in the world in combat mission. The Nobel Peace Prize Committee have assessed the situation correctly, namely that a war against Iran cannot happen without the US president’s approval, the least without the approval of a Nobel peace prize winner. However, the pressure from banks, the oil billionaires, the arms industry, the military and the Israel lobby could force the US to come into war when Israel carried out the first strike against Iran and the above mentioned powers wanted to secure their interests. The US is not only the country with the highest debts in the world but along with their currency their empire decays. The world’s allegedly “only superpower” is at the moment imploding in the same manner the Russian did 20 years ago. With some kicks the Chinese have already told the US president quite clearly that they do not acknowledge their leadership any longer. Therefore, if Israel decided to strike, the US president would face the terrible choice between sinking further into the quagmire of financial-, economic and social crisis or seeking the solution of a world war, which has made the US a winner twice already. The danger of a world war has never been greater since World War II. Therefore, increasing warnings to the US mostly from a group of European intellectuals for more than a year have been justified.

Syria Advantage

A) Syrian rebels aren’t strong enough to topple Assad, so conflict continues, putting the Middle East at risk. Western soft power key to topple Assad Berti

On the other hand, continuing the current mix of harsh rhetoric and weak sanctions is also dangerous and ineffective. Right now, the Syrian rebels are not strong enough to oust Bashar al-Assad and topple his regime. At the same time, the regime does not have the capacity to completely crush the opposition. So the country will continue to experience intense internal conflict and civilian suffering, given that the chances of the parties reaching a negotiated agreement are slim. This prolonged civil war would be disastrous for the Syrian people, and would put the rest of the region at risk. Growing strife and state weakness can lead to increasing lawlessness. That in turn could attract more “problematic” individuals (like foreign jihadists) to Syria and also endanger the relative quiet at the Syrian-Israeli border. The growing influx of Syrian refugees to neighboring countries can also export instability to the region, especially Jordan. Finally, going with the status quo powerfully undermines the emerging “responsibility to protect” doctrine. International inaction in the face of ongoing massacres in Syria – which are comparable in scale and humanitarian impact with the attacks against civilians by an entrenched Muammar Qaddafi in Libya – strengthens the case of cynical observers. It is possible, however, for the international community to adopt a “middle” strategy that combines “hard” and “soft” power. Such a strategy could [to] facilitate the exit of Mr. Assad and help transition Syria out of the current internal strife. To do this, the international community should keep up the pressure on the regime through political and economic sanctions. But it should also take active steps to politically engage with and support the opposition. Western countries would not directly arm the rebels, but other regional actors, like Qatar and Kuwait, have indeed been assisting the opposition militarily. There should be pressure on these suppliers to tie their assistance to “conditionality”: weapons support in return for complying with international humanitarian law and refraining from reprisals and acts against the civilian population.

B) Decrease of retributive policies causes US Soft Power to increase Walsh and Piazza 10

However, flagrant human rights abuses by countries fighting terrorism can damage international cooperation and assistance (Hoffman, 2004). Governments and international organizations that attach importance to respect for human rights, or are bound by international human rights treaties, may become less willing to provide support for the counterterrorism programs of states that violate human rights, fearing the domestic and international consequences of collaborating with a notorious regime (Abrahms, 2007, p. 244; Cingranelli & Richards, 1999).

And, Death penalty and harsh punishments for immigrants draw criticism from around the world Nye

American soft power is eroded more by policies like capital punishment or the absence of gun control, where we are the deviants in opinion among advanced countries. American support for the death penalty, for example, meets disapproval from two-thirds of the public in Great Britain, France, Germany, and Italy. Similarly, the American domestic response to terrorism after 9/11 runs some risk of reducing our soft-power resources. Attitudes toward immigration have hardened, and new visa procedures have discouraged some foreign students. A decline in religious tolerance toward Muslims hurts the image of the United States in Muslim countries such as Pakistan and Indonesia as well as in the Arab world.

C) This prevents extinction Esfandiari describes the scenario if Assad stays

ASSAD STAYS Assad shakes off the rebellion and high-level defections within his camp and emerges victorious. With the support of the Syrian Army, and unabated repression against rebel areas, he has worn down the resistance. Assad's control of the country's stockpile of chemical weapons staves off any thought of outside intervention and makes to dangerous to topple from within. A major crackdown against members of the Free Syrian Army ensues, and members of the opposition are forced to leave the country or go underground. Nevertheless, Assad is not in an envious position. Attacks by radical Islamists active in Syria rise. Assad's regime stands isolated, and faces tremendous challenges due to sanctions, a poor economy, and international pressure. Regional Impact Russia remains one of Assad's main allies, takes the diplomatic high road, and continues to support Syria internationally. Iran boosts assistance to its only Arab ally and builds on the precedent set that not all regional uprisings backed by the West are successful. Likelihood: Most observers consider the prospect of Assad remaining in power to be highly unlikely. But it isn't entirely out of the question. Gremmo director Balanche says there are at least two possible scenarios under which he could retain power. "He could stay in power if the Free Syrian Army is, for example divided, if there is fighting within the Free Syrian Army and some members accept negotiations with Assad, for example," he says. The other would be for internal actors to end their support for the Free Syrian Army. "If you have deal between Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar that Saudi and Qatar accept to not support the Free Syrian Army, then why not?" Balanche says. WILD CARDS Islamist Threat Radical insurgents who have taken up arms across Syria have gained strength as a result of the insurgency. "Al-Qaeda in Syria is on the increase and, with or without the Assad regime in place, Al-Qaeda is set to play an important role in months to come," notes Husein of the Council on Foreign Relations. Rogue Chemical Weapons Syria's arsenal of chemical weapons falls into unpredictable hands, leaving the entire world on high alert. "With Islamic militants loose in the country, some of which are openly declaring allegiance to Al-Qaeda, they could, some of them, get into extremist hands in the international arena, which is very dangerous. And also, a regime which was falling might pass them, in its death agony, pass some of them to Hizballah," says the Middle East Institute's Wayne White. "And the most lethal part of the arsenal is comprised of missiles with chemical-tipped warheads and artillery shells, and so if Hizballah gets a hold of that the Israelis are going to be absolutely terrified."

Chinese Advantage

A – Uniqueness: US-Chinese relations are uncertain after a recent change in leadership Qin 12/10

In November, both the U.S. presidential election and China’s change of leadership took place. They were the two most watched events of the year. China’s transfer of power within the party has become increasingly institutionalized. Meanwhile, America’s history of democratic election is deep-rooted and continues to play a fundamental role in its national and social dimensions. As the superpower and the emerging power, which are also the world's first and second largest economies, the development of Sino-US relations will have a direct impact on the global strategic and economic situation. The high-level changes of leadership provide an excellent window of opportunity for the development of their bilateral relations. Where will the two countries’ anointed leaders take Sino-US relations?

B – Link Retribution destroys US-Chinese relations

First, retributive policies on foreign nationals ruin international relations Walsh and Piazza 10

However, flagrant human rights abuses by countries fighting terrorism can damage international cooperation and assistance (Hoffman, 2004). Governments and international organizations that attach importance to respect for human rights, or are bound by international human rights treaties, may become less willing to provide support for the counterterrorism programs of states that violate human rights, fearing the domestic and international consequences of collaborating with a notorious regime (Abrahms, 2007, p. 244; Cingranelli & Richards, 1999).

Second, Death penalty and harsh punishments for immigrants draw criticism from around the world Nye

American soft power is eroded more by policies like capital punishment or the absence of gun control, where we are the deviants in opinon among advanced countires. American support for the death penalty, for example, meets disapproval from two-thirds of the public in Great Britain, France, Germany, and Italy. Similarly, the American domestic response to terrorism after 9/11 runs some risk of reducing our soft-power resources. Attitudes toward immigration have hardened, and new visa procedures have discouraged some foreign students. A decline in religious tolerance toward Muslims hurts the image of the United States in Muslim countries such as Pakistan and Indonesia as well as in the Arab world.

C – Impact

The resulting power struggle causes China to attack Taiwan, and extinction Bearden

History bears out that desperate nations take desperate actions. Prior to the final economic collapse, the stress on nations will have increased the intensity and number of their conflicts, to the point where the arsenals of weapons of mass destruction (WMD’s) are now possessed by some 25 nations, are almost certain to be released. As an example, suppose a starving North Korea launches nuclear weapons upon Japan and South Korea, including U.S. forces there, in a spasmodic suicidal response. Or suppose a desperate China, whose long-range nuclear missiles (some) can reach the United States, attacks Taiwan. In addition to immediate responses, the mutual treaties involved in such scenarios will quickly draw other nations into the conflict, escalating it significantly. Strategic nuclear studies have shown for decades that, under such extreme stress conditions, once a few nukes are launched, adversaries and potential adversaries are then compelled to launch on perception of preparations by one's adversary. The real legacy of the MAD concept is this side of the MAD coin that is almost never discussed. Without effective defense, the only chance a nation has to survive at all is to launch immediate full-bore pre-emptive strikes and try to take out its perceived foes as rapidly and massively as possible. As the studies showed, rapid escalation to full WMD exchange occurs. Today, a great percent of the WMD arsenals that will be unleashed, are already on site within the United States itself. The resulting great Armageddon will destroy civilization as we know it, and perhaps most of the biosphere, at least for many decades.
== == 
----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> Mark W. Lipsey [Director of Center for Evaluation Research and Methodology and Senior Research Associate at Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy, PhD in Psychology from John Hopkins University] and Francis T. Cullen [Professor at School of Criminal Justice at University of Cincinnati] “The Effectiveness of Correctional Rehabilitation: A Review of Systematic Reviews” //Annual Review of Law and Social Sciences// (Jul 5 2007)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Sam Harris //The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span> Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17. University of Chicago Law Professor explains,
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span> Mark W. Lipsey [Director of Center for Evaluation Research and Methodology and Senior Research Associate at Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy, PhD in Psychology from John Hopkins University] and Francis T. Cullen [Professor at School of Criminal Justice at University of Cincinnati] “The Effectiveness of Correctional Rehabilitation: A Review of Systematic Reviews” //Annual Review of Law and Social Sciences// (Jul 5 2007) **Methodology:** Reviews life skills (juveniles), cognitive-behavioral therapy, family counseling/intervention, aggression replacement training, group counseling, Milieu therapy, Drug courts, and therapeutic community (adults)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span> Mark W. Lipsey [Director of Center for Evaluation Research and Methodology and Senior Research Associate at Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy, PhD in Psychology from John Hopkins University] and Francis T. Cullen [Professor at School of Criminal Justice at University of Cincinnati] “The Effectiveness of Correctional Rehabilitation: A Review of Systematic Reviews” //Annual Review of Law and Social Sciences// (Jul 5 2007)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Wilson, Jane [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.] Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review, 2007. [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/19695235/Juvenile-Recidivism]] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (The Voice of Generation-Y) “Signs Of A Double-Dip Recession Emerge http://elitedaily.com/elite/2012/signs-doubledip-recession-emerge/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]</span> Joshua Wachtel “Restorative Justice Reduces Crime and Saves Money” //International Institute for Restorative Practices// (Dec 23 2008) [[http://www.iirp.edu/article_detail.php?article_id=NTY2]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> **Hamer 10** 3/6, *Prof Dr. Eberhard Hamer writes for Current Concerns, “Increasing Indications for a Third World War,” http://www.currentconcerns.ch/index.php?id=1012, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]]</span> Benedetta Berti (March 15 2012) “To help Syria, apply a mix of ‘soft’ and ‘hard’ power” //The Christian Science Monitor// [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2012/0315/To-help-Syria-apply-a-mix-of-soft-and-hard-power]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref11|[11]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">James I. Walsh and James A. Piazza. “Why Respecting Physical Integrity Rights Reduces Terrorism.” Comparative Political Studies 2010; 43; 551. 2010.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref12|[12]]]</span> Joseph S. Nye //Soft Power: The Means to Success In World// (2004) Perseus Books page 59
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref13|[13]]]</span> Golnaz Esfaniari “Scenarios for Syria” //Radio Free Europe Radio Liberty// (Dec 16 2012) [[http://www.rferl.org/content/syria-scenarios/24681054.html]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref14|[14]]]</span> Chen Qin “The Power Couple – US-China Relations at a Crossroads” //Worldcrunch// Dec 10, 2012 12:12pm [[http://www.worldcrunch.com/opinion-analysis/the-power-couple-us-china-relations-at-a-crossroads/panetta-diplomacy-jinping-obama-jiabao-asean/c7s10305/#.UMzw1XeRZp4|http://www.worldcrunch.com/opinion-analysis/the-power-couple-us-china-relations-at-a-crossroads/panetta-diplomacy-jinping-obama-jiabao-asean/c7s10305/#.UMzw1XeRZp4]]
[[home#_ftnref15|****[15]****]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">James I. Walsh and James A. Piazza. “Why Respecting Physical Integrity Rights Reduces Terrorism.” Comparative Political Studies 2010; 43; 551. 2010.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref16|[16]]]</span> Joseph S. Nye //Soft Power: The Means to Success In World// (2004) Perseus Books page 59
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref17|[17]]]</span> T.E. Bearden LTC U.S. Army (ret) Director of Association of Distinguished American Scientists and Fellow Emeritus, Alpha Foundation’s Institute for Advanced Study, The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly, 6-24-2k1, [[@http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm]]
== == 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative]][[#January-February-Negative]]Negative</span>== 
====**Emotivism NC**==== 
**The standard is consistency with neuroethics**

**First,** the only way for moral statements to avoid skepticism is for them to be based on human psychology – emotion is the only way for us to evaluate moral statements **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Greene</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>

As noted above, … we use to make moral decisions.

**Second,** morality must be grounded in our basic intuitions in order to be motivating **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Haidt</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">But in the 18th … against taking the action.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">My **thesis and sole contention** is that retribution is comparatively more consistent with neurological intuitions **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Clark</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span></span>
But, he points out, … are "inaccurate" in some sense.

**And,** this is empirically verified Fehr and Gachter<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>

Our results suggest … they free ride.



----
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Joshua Greene, [Cognitive Neuroscientist and Philosopher, Ph.D., Postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Psychology and Center for the Study of Brain, Mind and Behavior at Princeton University], “From neural ‘is’ to moral ‘ought:” what are the moral implications of neuroscientific moral psychology? ” Nature Reviews Neuroscience, Volume 4, October, 2003.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Jonathan Haidt, [University of Virginia Philosophy Department], “The Emotional Dog and Its Rational Tail: A Social Intuitionist Approach to Moral Judgment,” Psychological Review, Vol. 108. No. 4, 814-834, 2001.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Tom W. Clark, [Research associate, Institute for Behavioral Health, Heller School, Brandeis University], “Criminal Justice,” Naturalism.org, December, 2001.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Ernst Fehr [Professor of Microeconomics and Experimental Economic Research at Univ of Zurich] & Simon Gächter [University of St Gallen, FEW-HSG]–2002. “Altruistic Punishment in Humans” //Nature// (p < 0.005) [[http://www.neiu.edu/~jkasmer/Biol498R/carlson.pdf]] **Methodology:** sample size of 240 students, researchers observe whether or not people were punished for wrongdoing </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Pew Research “Continued Majority Support for Death Penalty” //Center for the People & The Press// (Jan 6 2012) [[http://www.people-press.org/2012/01/06/continued-majority-support-for-death-penalty/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Selim Berker “The Normative Insignificance of Neuroscience” //Philosophy and Public Affairs// 37, no. 4 [[http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~phildept/files/Faculty%20Papers/berker_norm-insignif-neuro_Final.pdf]]</span>

====**Before Jail CP**==== 
<span style="font-family: Times;">Part A is the text – Expand access to treatment to drug offenders before they enter the criminal justice system **Walsh<span style="font-family: Times;">[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; text-align: justify;">A more effective approach … all can get behind.</span>
Part B is the Competition –

A) Temporal competition
B) Net benefits
C) Textual competition
Part C is the Net Benefits –

**First,** Non-unique’s all aff advantages
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Second,** Rehabilitation makes the criminal justice system more punitive with incarceration. **Drug Policy Alliance<span style="font-family: Cambria;">[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">Drug courts have … culturally appropriate treatment.</span>
This outweighs because:
A) **Scope**
B) **Ruse** **of solvency**

----
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> “Letter to the editor: Drug courts don’t work” (Jul 7, 2011) //The Washington Times// </span><span style="color: #003399; font-family: Times; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/jul/7/drug-courts-dont-work/#ixzz2JKV1BQis|http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/jul/7/drug-courts-dont-work/#ixzz2JKV1BQis]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> //<span style="color: #000000;">Drug Courts Are Not the Answer: Toward a Health-centered Approach to Drug Use.</span>//</span> <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">New York: Drug Policy Alliance, 2011. Print.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October - Full Text Disclosure (Feel free to use any of these cards)]]September-October - Full Text Disclosure (Feel free to use any of these cards)</span>= 

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October - Full Text Disclosure (Feel free to use any of these cards)-Affirmative]][[#September-October-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.333333015441895px;">[[#September-October - Full Text Disclosure (Feel free to use any of these cards)-Affirmative--Organization Man AC]]**Organization Man AC**</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I affirm</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Presume aff because of time skew.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> If there is no offense at the end of the round, then the aff did the better debating, so they get your ballot.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">West’s Encyclopedia of American Law</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> defines constitutional due process</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__A__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> fundamental, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__constitutional guarantee that all legal proceedings will be fair__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">and that one will be given notice of the proceedings</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__and an opportunity to be heard before the government acts__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> to take away one's life, liberty, or property.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Also, a__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">constitutional</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__guarantee that a law shall not be unreasonable, [or] Arbitrary__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, or capricious. The constitutional guarantee of </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__due__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__process of law, found in the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">to the U.S. Constitution,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__prohibits__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> all levels of government from</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__arbitrarily__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> or unfairly </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__depriving individuals of__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">their basic constitutional</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__rights to life, liberty, and property__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> The due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, ratified in 1791, asserts that no person shall "be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law." This amendment</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[it]__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__restricts the powers of the federal government__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">and applies only to actions by it. The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, ratified in 1868, declares,"[N]or shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law" (§ 1). This clause limits</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[and] the__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> powers of</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the states__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, rather than those of the federal government.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Evan</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> defines the organization man’s ethic</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Increasing usage of</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the term "organization man"__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">among laymen, or of its tech- nical equivalents 1 among social scien- tists, suggests that Whyte 2</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__has identified a significant phenomenon in large organizations__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Although he asserts that</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the phenomenon__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">conveyed by this term </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__is__ __observable in__ __industrial__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, educational,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__governmental, and other__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> types of </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__organizations__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, his point of de- parture is the industrial organization; and the status of "organization man" that ap- pears to concern him primarily is that of the junior or middle executive. Unlike the ubiquitous entrepreneur of the nineteenth century whose ideology was rooted in the Protestant Ethic,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the ideology of the__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">equally ubiquitous</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__corporate__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">manager of the twentieth century, according to Whyte,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__is founded on the "Social Ethic."__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> 3 Whereas the entrepreneur was an individualist and an innovator,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the organization man is a "conformist," socialized into__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">the</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__values of organizational loyalty__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">"teamwork,"</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__and the avoidance of independent opinions or original ideas.__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">By "Social Ethic," Whyte means, "that contemporary body of thought which makes morally legitimate the pressures of so- ciety against the individual. Its major propositions are three: a belief in the group as the source of creativity; a belief in 'belonging- ness' as the ultimate need of the individual; and a belief in the application of science to achieve the belongingness." 4</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__This ethic or ideology of the organization man__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, as we shall refer to it, "</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__rationalizes the organization's demands for fealty and gives those who offer it wholeheartedly a sense of dedication__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">in doing so-in extremes, you might say, it con- verts what would seem in other times a bill of no rights into a restatement of individ- ualism." 5</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My standard is limiting the ideology of the organization man. Prefer this standard for 3 reasons.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1) Only creative agency can foster the meta-ethic of inclusive well-being – we need to be creative to find ways to achieve any form of moral goodness </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prozesky</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__What then does__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> the process </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__philosoph[y]__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">ical tradition </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__understand__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__by the__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> key ethical </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__concept of the good__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">? </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The answer is__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">as follows, as students of the tradition know: firstly, moral goodness is that which fosters the enjoyment of experience as fully as possible by all. In words </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__that__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> I personally prefer,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__moral goodness is__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">the maximizing of</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__inclusive well-being__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. This leads to the answer to the second question about the nature of the ethical</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">: </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__if we want to bring about the good we should do all we can to foster inclusive well-being__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> and help it be as richly enjoyable as possible for all. Things are however much more complex when we turn to my third question about the nature of the ethical, namely just why we should live in ways that maximize well-being, but the short answer is this: we should be ethical because, given the nature of things, there is no more rational way to live wisely and well, which is what we all want anyway. To explain this answer I must now deal with the way process thought understands the nature of things and above all how it understands human existence. This is seen as a flow of creative, inner-related, valorizing agencies manifesting both novelty and stability, adventure and order, a reality evident to us in our conscious experience, but, according to process thought, characteristic not just of human beings but of all that is real. This, of course, means that process thought sees moral values as grounded not only in our human reality, but in the bedrock of the way things are. If that is the case, then moral values are as deeply anchored as it is possible to be. In most of the process literature known to me, the themes of creativity and inner or essential relatedness receive the greatest emphasis. To my mind it is necessary to give special attention to what I have called valorizing agency if we want to develop the ethic that is latent in the process worldview. What I have in mind by this expression is the way human beings—and all else according to process thought—exemplify a special kind of agency. This is not just creative and not just essentially related to other actualities, but additionally involves the judging of experience for the satisfaction or dissatisfaction, enjoyment or aversion it yields, a judging that is, I think, rooted in our power to sense. Then we select for further enactment that which experience shows is likely to yield the former rather than the latter. I would say that</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__this is what gives direction to our creative agency by discerning and assigning values to things__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, selecting what is positively valued for realization, and thereby acting like a behavioral steering mechanism. As I reflect on my own experience, I sense</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__this enables me to react to, and move from, the settled past__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> as it enters into and is received by my own life</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__towards a future—preferred because of the__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> greater overall</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__well-being I wish to foster. By means of__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">these ideas—</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">creative</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, inner-related, valorizing</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__agency__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> without absence of order—the process perspective believes</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__we can best discern the grain of reality and thus also what kinds of action are likely to prove fruitful__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">by going with that grain and what kinds are likely to fail because they do not. To live in ways that express as fully as possible this set of related characteristics is therefore to live realistically and</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__with some prospect of productive existence. When all of them are expressed harmoniously in our lives, then life is ethical because it is productive of, and instantiates, the common good.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must reject the organization man ethic, because it inhibits creative agency and prevents solutions to social problems </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Evan 2</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__From the standpoint of the individual__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">ex- ecutive as well as the organization</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the ideology tends to inhibit__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">original and </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__creative effort which, by definition, departs from prevailing practices__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, and hence runs the risk of not being approved by a superordinate. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Ac- cordingly, the industrial organization must increasingly rely on staff specialists for new ideas rather than on line management. This entails a loss to the organization of a poten- tial source of valuable innovations-which is not to gainsay the advantages of having staff specialists concern themselves principally with problems of innovation. Another consequence of this ideology for the individual as well as for the organization is the paradoxical combination of high job immobility with high job insecurity. By defi- nition, the organization man's loyalty induces him to devote his entire career to his organi- zation. He has a "local" rather than a "cos- mopolitan" orientation; in other words, his reference group is his organization rather than the occupation of management which transcends a given organization. This tends to result in a high degree of job immobility among executive personnel. From the point of view of the organization, low turnover may be highly advantageous, provided the man- ager's performance is judged to contribute to the organization's effectiveness. In the event that his performance is judged to interfere with the organization's attainment of its goals, the organization may transfer him to an innocuous position, induce him to resign, or dismiss him.24 In the absence of due proc- ess of law for junior and middle managers, and we might even add top managers, those who are judged undesirable for whatever rea- sons-relevant or irrelevant-may be dis- charged without an opportunity for a fair hearing. Another consequence of the ideology which is dysfunctional for the organization is the tendency of the organization man to restrict upward communication to material which is calculated to enhance his self-image and si- multaneously not threaten the superordinate in any way. On the basis of studies of experi- mentally created hierarchies, we would ex- pect that organization men who are upwardly mobile-and this is presumably true of the bulk of junior and middle managers-would be strongly motivated to censor upward com- munication to insure positive appraisal and corresponding rewards.25 Such action, of course, complicates the planning and coordi- nation problems of top management. Yet another effect of the ideology on the individual executive, related to job insecurity and the pressures for restriction of upward communication, is the tendency for discrep- ancies to develop between overt and covert behavior. Covert nonconformity occurs pro- vided the probability of the discovery of such action is low. Where covert nonconformity does not occur, we may expect to find covert disbelief in the legitimacy of the authority exercised by the superior together with overt behavioral conformity. The resulting degree of cognitive dissonance, due to the discrep- ancy between overt conformity and covert disbelief, on the part of the organization man may be considerable. To reduce the resulting dissonance, the organization man can con- vince himself that his overt behavior is quite satisfactory after all, i.e., by changing his cognitions so that they are consonant with his overt behavior.26 The effect of the ideology of the organiza- tion man on society as a whole is probably more elusive than its effects on the individual manager and on the industrial organization, though nonetheless real.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__As a result of the premium put on cautious behavior__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">calculated</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__not to offend__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">the preferences and expectations of </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__a superior, the organization man may__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> tend to transfer this behavior pattern and prin- ciple of behavior to his community life and</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__engage in only "conformist" activity. This__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">approach to community life </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__lessens the chances of__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> successfully </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__coming to grips__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__with__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">new and </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__complex__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">social</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__problems requiring innovative rather than "conformist" behavior.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2) The ideology of the organization man creates inconsistencies which render morality incoherent</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a) The ideology of the organization man creates inconsistencies between overt and covert behavior </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Evan</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Yet </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__another effect__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> of the ideology on the individual executive, related to job insecurity and the pressures for restriction of upward communication, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__is__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> the tendency for </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__discrepancies__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> to develop </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__between overt and covert behavior__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Covert nonconformity occurs provided the probability of the discovery of such action is low__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Where covert nonconformity does not occur, we may expect__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> to find </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__covert disbelief in the legitimacy of the authority__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> exercised by the superior together with overt behavioral conformity. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The resulting degree of cognitive dissonance, due to the discrepancy between overt conformity and covert disbelief__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, on the part of the organization man</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__may be considerable.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b) The organization man’s ethic creates a paradox between immobility and insecurity </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Evan</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">4</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Another consequence of this ideology__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> for the individual as well as for the organization </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__is the paradoxical combination of__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">high job </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__immobility with__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">high job</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__insecurity. By definition, the organization man's loyalty induces him to devote__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">his entire career </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__to his organization.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> He has a "local" rather than a "cosmopolitan" orientation; in other words, his reference group is his organization rather than the occupation of management which transcends a given organization. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__This tends to result in a high degree of__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> job</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__immobility__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> among executive personnel. From the point of view of the organization, low turnover may be highly advantageous, provided the man-ager's performance is judged to contribute to the organization's effectiveness. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__In the event that his performance is judged to interfere with the organization__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">'s attainment of its goals, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the organization may__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">transfer him to an innocuous position, induce him to resign, or </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__dismiss him.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c) Preventing inconsistencies </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">precludes all neg frameworks</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> because inconsistency renders morality incoherent </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Velasquez</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Consistency—</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the absence of contradictions—has__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> sometimes </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__been called the hallmark of ethics__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. Ethics is supposed t</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[T]o provide us with a guide for moral living__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, and to do so it must be rational, and to be rational</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__it must be free of contradictions. If a person said, "Open the window but don't open the window," we would be at loss as to what to do__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">; the command is contradictory and thus irrational. In the same way, if our ethical principles and practices lack consistency, we, as rational people, will find ourselves at a loss as to what we ought to do and divided about how we ought to live. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Ethics requires consistency in the sense that__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> our </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__moral standards__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, actions, and values </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__should not be contradictory__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. Examining our lives to uncover inconsistencies and then modifying our moral standards and behaviors so that they are consistent is an important part of moral development.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3)</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> The aff advocacy of decreasing conformity to the organization is discursively good because conformity to social elites causes genocide </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alvarez</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">I would like to spend a few minutes talking with you about the role that social elites play in legitimating genocide. It is by now well recognized that</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **__genocide requires the active participation of many members of a society and the passive acquiescence of__** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">many</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **__more__**. **__It is a crime of the many__**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">, rather than of the few. The holocaust, for example has been called a “German national project” because it involved so many participants and accomplices from all walks of life. Similarly,</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **__[For example] the Rwandan genocide__**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">, while guided and orchestrated by military and political leaders, nonetheless</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **__relied upon many ordinary citizens to facilitate the killing__**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">. Other examples of genocide also exhibit the same kind of mass participation and/or acceptance. </span><span style="background-color: white;">**__Since all genocides are large-scale__** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">and</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **__systematic attempts to eradicate__** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">populations,</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **__their perpetration is utterly dependent upon large segments of a nation going along with the genocidal policies.__** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">This raises the important question of why does this acceptance take place? How is it possible for genocidally inclined states to enlist such mass support in their destructive and murderous policies?</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **__Many of the individuals who participate are typically ordinary citizens__** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">who may well have values antithetical to violence and criminality. Although it is popular to view them as such, the perpetrators of genocide are not monsters or psychopaths. Most are ordinary human beings engaged in extra-ordinary crimes. The psychopaths and sadists are far outnumbered by individuals who are “normal” in their psychological processes.</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **__How is it possible for all of these participants to put aside their values and engage in genocide?__** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">While there is no single answer to these questions, and while a complete understanding of how these crimes occur must draw from a number of different disciplines and perspectives, I believe</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **__one important factor concerns the role that social elites play in providing important justifications for the violence.__**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> discursive justifications come before substantive justifications because the discourse we use determines reality </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wisnant</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Discourse creates a world. By shaping our perceptions of the world, [and] pulling together chains of associations that produce a meaningful understanding__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, and then organizing the way we behave towards objects in the world and towards other people, one might say that discourse generates the world of our everyday life.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__After all, even though science teaches us__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">that </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> real </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__world is__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> the material world </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__made up of atoms__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> and energy, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__in a real way the world for most of us is a world of__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> colors, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__emotions, ideas, and life. It is a__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> kind of </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__virtual world generated by our minds__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, but not by us alone we construct this world</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__socially through a complex interaction between experience__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, upbringing, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__and education__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Discourses__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> as chains of language that bind us social beings together,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__play a key role in the social construction of reality.__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My thesis is that extending due process to non-citizens charged with terrorism decreases the ideology of the organization man within the corporation of the Federal Government</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1 –</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Since 9/11, social conformity has allowed for Machiavellian abuses of human rights </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bassiouni</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The U<span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">nited</span>S<span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">tates of America has historically been regarded as a moral leader opening the pathway for human rights. The country which has long struggled for the establishment of the rule of law – as well as to be a model for other nations in observing it </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__has, since [9/11]__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> 11 September 2001 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__committed abhorrent practices of torture__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">against which it has fought when committed by others. What seems astonishing is that </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__such practices took place__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">in the U.S. within a climate of significant public indifference and even </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__with some public support__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Time and again, observers of tragic historic events reveal that </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__it is not so much the evil doing of the few which allows the worst atrocities to occur, as it is the indifference of the many__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">The Bush administration assumed neither moral nor legal responsibility, and in the end, it is hard-put to show what positive results may have been obtained for so many transgressions.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The history of law and__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__legal institutions has long proven the error of accepting__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the Machiavellian principle__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">that the ends justify the means. In addition, the proposition that torture prevents terrorism cannot be proven true. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Under torture, people tend to say whatever is expected of them.__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">However, this is not only about pragmatic pursuits. It is about morality and ethics. The judgment has already been made that torture is unlawful. In addition, the Guantánamo Bay practices and the unlawful seizure of persons in different parts of the world by the CIA after which they are transferred to countries where they are tortured, have proven that reliable evidence is highly unlikely to be attained under torture. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__In addition,__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__most detainees have been proven to have no connection to terrorism__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">and most of them have been released because they were wrongly arrested. Guantánamo represents a failed policy that has caused much damage to the moral authority of the United States.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Aberrant views of torture as necessary__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">because ”the ends justify the means” </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__have not generated much negative reaction from the legal profession__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__despite__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">the fact that </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> 1984 Convention against Torture, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the Geneva Conventions__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, the U.S. Constitution, and the laws of the United States have clearly prohibited such practices.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There is no doubt that status quo abuses are institutionalized and the result of the organization </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Davidson</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Though, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__since war throughout history has consistently resulted in rape and torture, one has to wonder if there is in fact something institutional about these abuses__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">; even if</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__these atrocities__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">aren't directly ordered, they </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__are at times condoned and even encouraged. The U.S. is hardly alone on this__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, but just look at the atrocities in the Philippines, or during the Native American genocide, or Vietnam. When one considers statements like General Westmoreland's - "The Oriental doesn't put the same high price on life as does a Westerner. Life is plentiful. Life is cheap in the Orient." - it's easy to see how</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the attitude of the war planners can filter down to butchery among the infantry.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">It could be argued</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__this is by design__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. Hey - "Stuff happens." Del Signore later said Westmoreland's "racist rationalizations" were a "sickening world view." But, a Strategic Studies Institute paper (pdf) echoed Westmoreland, saying the Communist North Vietnamese "possess a willingness to die" and would fight to the last person. The paper also quoted Prof. Richard K.Betts who assessed, Hanoi “preferred endless war to defeat.” The Gothamist blogger then added,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> "</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__while it may never be confirmed that__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> regular army </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__soldiers are trained to waterboard prisoners, someone is doing it, either in the CIA or Special Forces__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__or private contractors__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 –</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Due process decreases the organization man ethic in the Federal Government Corporation</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A) Transparency caused by due process limits the organizational reach of government </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nickel</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> gives 2 warrants</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">One way that DPRs</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[First, Due process rights] protect__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">people's</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__liberty__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">is</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__by requiring legal justification__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">for incarceration - a justification that shows that the accused person violated a law that was already in existence and knowable at the time the alleged criminal offense occurred.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__For example, when the police__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> and many ordinary citizens</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__dislike__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> the recreational activities of certain teenagers, or the door-to-door</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__witnessing of__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> certain</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__religious groups__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, the police</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[they] may__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">harass such people by arresting them for minor or imaginary offences and then</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__beat__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">ing </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__them up__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">during or after arrest. DPRs</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[Due process rights] protect such people__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> by making conviction of a criminal offense more difficult; t</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[T]hey prescribe a fair trial in which it is shown that the person violated a valid law__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Further, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[Second,] by opening__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> arrest, interrogation, abuse, and detention to</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__judicial and public scrutiny they help make it risky for police to use unauthorized violence.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B) Public trials and juries are key </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nickel 2</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">DPRs </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[Due process rights] give us important protections__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">for our lives, liberty, and property. 9 Like the criminal law itself they protect our security. But instead of protecting us against private criminals they protect us</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__against government__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">DPRs protect us not only directly when we are personally accused of crimes, but also indirectly by serving as checks on governmental power. They make less available tempting but tyrannical (or just heavy-handed) ways of governing, and thereby promote good government. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__They__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__make tyrannical ways of governing less available by__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__making__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">criminal</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__procedure more transparent. Public trials give citizens a view of how the__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> criminal</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__justice system is working.__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Oppression, if it is occurring, is more likely to be open to public view. An attractive feature of</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[Second]__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__trials by jury__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">is that they</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__bring randomly selected members of the public__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> into the criminal justice system as participants, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__and__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__test legal judgments against__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">their consciences and</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__common sense__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Democratic practices, and the rights to campaign, protest, and vote that go with them, make transparency more valuable and DPRs more stable</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C) Providing rights is the first step to empowerment of individuals to resist the organization </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Minow</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">"</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Rights__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">" </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">can</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__give rise to "rights consciousness" so that individuals__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> and groups</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__may__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> imagine and</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__act in light of rights that have not been formally recognized__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> or enforced</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__. Rights__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, in this sense,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__are neither limited__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">tonor co-extensive</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__with precisely those rules formally announced__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> and enforced by public authorities. Instead,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__rights represent articulations__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">-- public or private, formal or informal --</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__of claims that people use to persuade others__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">(and themselves) about how they should be treated and about what they should be granted. I mean, then,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__to include__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">within the ambit of rights discourse</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__all efforts to claim new rights, to resist and alter official state action that fails to acknowledge such rights, and to construct communities apart from the state to nurture new conceptions of rights.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Rights here encompass even those claims that lose, or have lost in the past, if they continue to represent claims that muster people's hopes and articulate their continuing efforts to persuade. Consciousness, or cognizance, of rights, then, is not simply awareness of those rights that have been granted in the past, but also knowledge of the process by which hurts that once were whispered or unheard have become claims, and claims that once were unsuccessful, have persuaded others and transformed social life.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The connections between past and future claims of rights are voiced through interpretations of inherited understandings of rights.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, this is empirically confirmed. Liberal democratic protections prevent military action and the slide to totalitarianism—wealth of evidence proves </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heins</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Its goal is not the preservation__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__of life__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> reduced to a bare natural fact, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__but conversely the protection of__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> civilians and thereby</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the protection of elementary standards of civilization which prevent__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">the</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__exclusion__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__of individuals__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__from any legal and moral order__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The same holds true for human rights, of course.__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Agamben fails to appreciate the fact that</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__human rights laws are not about some cadaveric "bare life", but about the protection of moral agency.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> His sweeping critique also lacks any sense for essential distinctions. It may be legitimate to see "bare life" as a juridical fiction nurtured by the modern state, which claims the right to derogate from otherwise binding norms in times of war and emergency, and to kill individuals, if necessary, outside the law in a mode of "effective factuality."[[http://www.germanlawjournal.com/article.php?id=598#_ftn34|[34]]] Agamben asserts that sovereignty understood in this manner continues to function in the same way since the seventeenth century and regardless of the democratic or dictatorial structure of the state in question. This claim remains unilluminated by the</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__wealth of evidence__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">that</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__shows__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">how</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the humanitarian motive not only shapes the mandate of a host state__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">and nonstate agencies,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__but also serves to restrict the operational freedom of military commanders in democracies, who cannot act with impunity and who do not wage war in a lawless state of nature__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Furthermore, Agamben ignores the crisis of humanitarianism that emerged as a result of the totalitarian degeneration of modern states in the twentieth century.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__States cannot always be assumed to follow a rational self-interest which informs them that there is no point in killing others indiscriminately.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D) Looking to alternatives creates infinite burdens because there is always a marginally better alternative out there, and we will spend forever trying to reach the perfect solution, never being content and constantly scrapping current projects. Improving within the current legal system is the only way for stable progress.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> working within the existing legal system is the best way of protecting the weak against the strong. Instead of focusing on alternatives, we should focus on making what he have better </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hegland</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">So, what are these chips?</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__I fear deconstruction because people might come to believe__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> in it, come to</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;"> believe</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__that the Rule of Law is a hoax masking illegitimate power__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. I believe this would be a bad thing. I offer, in support, one war story and one literary quote. In the summer of 1965, I went south as a member of the Law Student Civil Rights Research Council. I worked with attorney C.B. King in Albany, Georgia. That summer there were many civil rights marches, and the police often refused to protect the demonstrators. I recall sitting in a Federal District Court with C.B. King and listening to the judge tell a rural sheriff, "The law requires you to protect the demonstrators. If you don't, I have no choice but to hold you in contempt." Be this illusion, I would not blithely dispel it.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Law can protect the weak from the strong.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Economic and racial</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__minorities would be in a worse condition in a deconstructed world, for our southern sheriff would argue, "The only reason I must protect them folks is to protect their first amendment rights__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, and the only reason they have first amendment rights is to get their voices heard, and, what with television being what it is,</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**I can assure them of a much larger audience by turning my dogs on them**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">." </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Right on, Sheriff! </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">n38</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> [*1220] A character in Robert Bolt's play, A Man for All Seasons, argues that he would "cut down every law in England" to get the Devil. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">n39</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Sir Thomas More responds: And when the last law was down, and the Devil turned around on you -- where would you hide, the laws all being flat? This country's planted thick with laws from coast to coast . . . and if you cut them down . . . </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">d'you</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> really think you could stand upright in the winds that would blow then? </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">n40</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> I realize that one war story and one literary quote will not prove the need for the Rule of Law. I realize there are counter examples and, indeed, conflicting images: "In Heaven there will be no law, and the lion will lie down with the lamb," Grant Gilmore assures us, while "[</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">i]n</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Hell there will be nothing but law, and due process will be meticulously observed." n41 No doubt,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the issue of the importance of the Rule of Law ultimately resolves itself into a vision of human nature__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. Morton </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">Horwitz</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> has written that to see the Rule of Law as an "unqualified human good" is to "succumb to Hobbesian pessimism" and to embrace a "conservative doctrine." n42</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__One hates to admit to being suspicious__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, fearful and, perhaps, even mean-spirited.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Yet, we live in a century that has produced Hitler and Stalin.__ __<span style="background-color: yellow;">Perhaps now is not the time to dump the Rule of Law</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">."Goodbye to Deconstruction" -- I stole the title. In 1936 Fred </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">Rodell</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> of Yale wrote a delightful essay, "Goodbye to Law Reviews." n43 Mostly he pokes fun at the pomposity of law reviews.There are two things wrong with almost </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">all legal</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> writing. One is style. The other is content. That, I think, about covers the ground. [*1221] . . . [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">I]t</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> seems to be a cardinal principle of law review writing and editing that nothing may be said forcefully and nothing may be said amusingly. This, I take it, is in the interest of something called dignity. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">n44Rodell's</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> ultimate point goes, however, to content. And in this he is quite serious.I do not wish to labor the point but perhaps it had best be stated once in dead earnest.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__With law as the only alternative to force as a means of solving the myriad problems of the world,__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">it seems to methat</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the articulate__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">among the clan of lawyers</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__might__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, in their writings,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__be more pointedly aware of those problems__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, might</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__recognize that the use of law to help toward their solution is the only excuse for the law's existence__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, instead of blithely continuing to make mountain after mountain out of tiresome technical molehills.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Articulate deconstructionists, instead of</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">blithely</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__denying the existence__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">of the mountain with tiresome epistemology,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__might better devote their obvious talents to making it more habitable.__</span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> "Due Process of Law." West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. 2008. The Gale Group. [[http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Due+Process+of+Law]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> William M. Evan “Organization Man and Due Process of Law” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">American Sociological Review</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Vol. 26, No. 4 (Aug 1961) pp. 540-547 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2090252]] Accessed: 8/20/12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Martin Prozesky “Chapter VI – Ethical Creativity in a Culture of Uneasy Religious Pluralism, Incomplete Democratization and Economic Injustice” [[http://www.crvp.org/book/Series02/II-6/chapter_vi.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> William M. Evan “Organization Man and Due Process of Law” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">American Sociological Review</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Vol. 26, No. 4 (Aug 1961) pp. 540-547 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2090252]] Accessed: 8/20/12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> William M. Evan “Organization Man and Due Process of Law” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">American Sociological Review</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Vol. 26, No. 4 (Aug 1961) pp. 540-547 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2090252]] Accessed: 8/20/12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> William M. Evan “Organization Man and Due Process of Law” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">American Sociological Review</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Vol. 26, No. 4 (Aug 1961) pp. 540-547 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2090252]] Accessed: 8/20/12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Manuel Velasquez [Charles J. Dirksen Professor of Business Ethics at Santa Clara University], Claire Andre, Thomas Shanks, S.J., and Michael J. Meyer “Consistence and Ethics” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Issues in Ethics</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Vol. 1, No. 4 (Summer 1988) Santa Clara University[[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/practicing/decision/consistency.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Alex Alvarez [PhD in sociology form Univ of New Hampsire, Assoc Professor at Dept of Criminal Justice at Northern Arizona University] “Justifying Genocide: The Role of Professionals in Legitimizing Mass Killing” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IDEA: A Journal of Social Issues</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Vol 6, No. 1 (Dec 20 2001) [[http://www.ideajournal.com/articles.php?sup=10]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> Dr. Clayton Whisnant [Associate Professor of European History @ Wofford College] “Foucault & Discourse” Wofford College[[http://webs.wofford.edu/whisnantcj/his389/foucault_discourse.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Cherif Bassiouni [Law Professor at DePaul Univ in Chicago and Key Author of </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Convention Against Torture</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">] “The Institutionalization of Torture – Six Questions for Cherif Bassiouni” Interviewed by Scott Horton </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harper’s Magazine</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Feb 8 2011)[[http://www.harpers.org/archive/2011/02/hbc-90007961]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Lynn Davidson “Gothamist: Military Encourages Institutional ‘Atrocities’ ‘Rape’ ‘Torture’” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NewsBusters</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Jan 25 2008)[[http://newsbusters.org/blogs/lynn-davidson/2008/01/25/gothamist-military-encourages-institutional-atrocities-rape-torture]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> James W. Nickel [Professor of Law at Arizona State, and former Prof of Phil at Univ. Colorado, Boulder] “Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">European Journal of Legal Studies</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Issue 1. (2007) [[http://wiki.victorybriefs.com/images/3/3f/Nickel_-_Due_Process_Rights_and_Terrorist_Emergencies.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> James W. Nickel [Professor of Law at Arizona State, and former Prof of Phil at Univ. Colorado, Boulder] “Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">European Journal of Legal Studies</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Issue 1. (2007) [[http://wiki.victorybriefs.com/images/3/3f/Nickel_-_Due_Process_Rights_and_Terrorist_Emergencies.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> Martha </span><span class="spelle" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Minow</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> [Professor of Law, Harvard University] //Yale Law Journal// “</span><span class="grame" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Interpreting</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> Rights: An Essay for Robert Cover” </span><span class="spelle" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">(</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">1987)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> **Heins, 05** (Volker, visiting professor of political science at Concordia University and Senior Fellow at the Institute for Social Research in Frankfurt, 6 German Law Journal No. 5, May,[[http://www.germanlawjournal.com/article.php?id=598]] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Kenney</span><span class="spelle" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> Hegland</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> [Prof. of Law @ Arizona] “Goodbye to Deconstruction,” 58 S. Cal. L. Rev. 1203, (July 1985)</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October - Full Text Disclosure (Feel free to use any of these cards)-Negative]][[#September-October-Negative]]Negative</span>== 

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.333333015441895px;">[[#September-October - Full Text Disclosure (Feel free to use any of these cards)-Negative--Symbolic Legality NC]]**Symbolic Legality NC**</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 1 - We Must Use Truth Testing</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a) Textuality – If I say that a thief is better than a murderer, that doesn’t mean that a thief is good. Similarly, just because the resolution is comparatively better than a neg counterplan does not mean that we ought to do it.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b) Philosophy Ground– Comparative worlds ignores key phil literature like deontology that only evaluates actions and not worlds.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c) Ground – Comparative worlds creates a double-bind: EITHER the neg defends the status quo, and negs lose since they must defend things like torture OR the neg defends a counterplan, which creates bidirectionality since neg cp’s can either cover more rights and solve better for the aff, or pic out of one bad right from the aff. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 2 - All Symbolic Legalities are Immoral</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Symbolic legalities are laws that are not interpreted based on their text, but by social opinions. I contend that symbolic legalities are immoral, and that constitutional due process is a symbolic legality.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, symbolic legalities create contradictions because they permit courts to provide different treatment since there is no clear legal text </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haney 1</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Our inability to ever__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__define these terms with__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> clarity and </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__precision__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">is what </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__enables us to tolerate dramatic contradictions and__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> to ignore </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__gross violations in the underlying principles while at the same embracing the ideals that the terms represent__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__These are__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">also </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__symbols whose current usage masks their history.__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Our claims to being a fair and just society are based largely on Fourteenth Amendment concepts of fair process and equal treatment. Yet, the Fourteenth Amendment has become functionally autonomous of its developmental determinants. This amendment-and the sense of justice it engenders-was the product not of the wisdom of the Founding Fathers (as constitutional celebrations sometimes suggest) but of a devastating Civil War and mass political action in the years that followed. The historical legacy most often attached to this aspect of the</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__symbolic legality fails to accurately recognize__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> or depict these </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__historical realities. Instead, it misleadingly glorifies__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> the divinely inspired genius of</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__"the Framers" instead of a legacy of political struggle.__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, the existence of a contradiction precludes the AC because it renders ethics meaningless </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Velasquez</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Consistency—</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the absence of contradictions—has__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> sometimes </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__been called the hallmark of ethics__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. Ethics is supposed t</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[T]o provide us with a guide for moral living__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, and to do so it must be rational, and to be rational</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__it must be free of contradictions. If a person said, "Open the window but don't open the window," we would be at loss as to what to do__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">; the command is contradictory and thus irrational. In the same way, if our ethical principles and practices lack consistency, we, as rational people, will find ourselves at a loss as to what we ought to do and divided about how we ought to live. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Ethics requires consistency in the sense that__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> our </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__moral standards__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, actions, and values </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__should not be contradictory__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, it is impossible for us to imagine any other form of ethics – legal reality is inescapable </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haney 2</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The Court must mediate this struggle between the nation's ideal and real legal selves.__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Fiss (1976) has suggested that "the Equal Protection Clause provides</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the Court__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">with a textual platform from which it can make pronouncements as to the meaning of equality; it</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__shapes the ideal__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">" (p. 173).</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__But it cannot escape the real__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">- on the one hand, real and increasingly sophisticated data about the nature and profound impact of continuing structural inequalities in this society, and, on the other hand, real reluctance to engage in the social transformation necessary to implement any meaningful vision of equality. Bell (1987) writes that</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__"the discrepancy between the nation's__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> deeply held</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//__beliefs__// __and__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> its daily</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__behavior adds a continuing confusion to racial inequities that undermine effective action.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Thus,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__we take refuge in the improbable and seek relief in increasingly empty repetitions of tarnished ideas__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">" (p. 5).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haney 2</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">precludes</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the AC</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a) It is about legal ethics, so it’s at the center of the topic. This is key because statements are meaningless without context. For example, the statement “John is walking” means nothing, unless we know where he is walking from and to. That means you prefer my framework because its more contextual.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b) It is logically prior since the warrant says the AFF standard would inevitably collapse when people realize the discrepancy between the real and ideal.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, the neg burden is to show the resolution is a symbolic legality. The sufficient aff burden is to show that it isn’t one.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 3 – The resolution is false because Constitutional Due Process is a symbolic legality</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the Constitution is the center of symbolic legality </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haney 3</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Supreme Court decisions-constitutional law-serve as powerful moralizing agents in American society.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__It is not__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> so much</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__that constitutional law teaches people about good and evil__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">or right and wrong,</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__but__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> more</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__that it serves__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> as the basis for</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__our expectations about legal__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">fairness and</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__justice.__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The Constitution__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, as it is publicly understood and discussed,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__stands as a major source of our symbolic legality__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">By symbolic legality I mean the ideological core of values and beliefs that we associate with law and justice in democratic society.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__It is what we //believe// our legal institutions stand for__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, the principles upon which we //believe// our agencies of justice operate.</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The Constitution is at the center of that symbolic legality.__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the Due Process Clause is a symbolic legality because of its textual vagueness </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haney 4</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">I believe that no part of the Constitution-no phrase, article, or amendment- is more important to the maintenance of our symbolic legality than the Fourteenth Amendment. What most people are thinking about when they say "I'm an American citizen; I've got rights!" are Fourteenth Amendment rights to fair and equal treatment. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The Due Process__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> and Equal Protection</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Clause__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">s are </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__[is] absolutely central__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> to our symbolic legality,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__yet__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">they are </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__terribly vague and undefined.__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Indeed</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__their vagueness is crucial to their importance__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">and effectiveness </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__as symbols. "No State shall deprive any person of__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">life, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__liberty__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, or property </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__without__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">the </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__due process__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">of law. ... </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__" But what kind of process is due and exactly when?__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">No state "shall deprive to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." But </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__what do we mean by protection, and exactly how much inequality will we tolerate?__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Thus, I negate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> Craig Haney [Professor of Psychology at UC Santa Cruz, author of //Reforming Punishment: Psychological limits to the pain of imprisonment//] “The Fourteenth Amendment and Symbolic Legality: Let Them Eat Due Process” //Law and Human Behavior// Vol 15, No 2 (April 1991) pp. 183-204 Published Springer. Accessed: 18/08/2012 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1394266]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Manuel Velasquez [Charles J. Dirksen Professor of Business Ethics at Santa Clara University], Claire Andre, Thomas Shanks, S.J., and Michael J. Meyer “Consistence and Ethics” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Issues in Ethics</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Vol. 1, No. 4 (Summer 1988) Santa Clara University[[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/practicing/decision/consistency.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> Craig Haney [Professor of Psychology at UC Santa Cruz, author of //Reforming Punishment: Psychological limits to the pain of imprisonment//] “The Fourteenth Amendment and Symbolic Legality: Let Them Eat Due Process” //Law and Human Behavior// Vol 15, No 2 (April 1991) pp. 183-204 Published Springer. Accessed: 18/08/2012 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1394266]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> Craig Haney [Professor of Psychology at UC Santa Cruz, author of //Reforming Punishment: Psychological limits to the pain of imprisonment//] “The Fourteenth Amendment and Symbolic Legality: Let Them Eat Due Process” //Law and Human Behavior// Vol 15, No 2 (April 1991) pp. 183-204 Published Springer. Accessed: 18/08/2012 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1394266]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> Craig Haney [Professor of Psychology at UC Santa Cruz, author of //Reforming Punishment: Psychological limits to the pain of imprisonment//] “The Fourteenth Amendment and Symbolic Legality: Let Them Eat Due Process” //Law and Human Behavior// Vol 15, No 2 (April 1991) pp. 183-204 Published Springer. Accessed: 18/08/2012 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1394266]]</span>