[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
==1ac - IRIS== 
===1ac –Drones=== 
<span class="Underline">**Advantage 1 is Drones**</span>

**Drone strikes are inevitable and expanding -- it’s a core part of US strategy.**
**Masters, 3-6-12**
[Jonathan, Associate Staff Writer -- CFR, “Targeted Killings,” http://www.cfr.org/intelligence/targeted-killings/p9627]
__The United States adopted targeted … that operates with a smaller footprint__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**But, they’re ineffective due to networking gaps.**
**Lee, ‘11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Spenser D., Second Lieutenant, USAF “ROUTING UAVS TO CO-OPTIMIZE MISSION EFFECTIVENESS AND NETWORK PERFORMANCE WITH DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING,” http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a545857.pdf]</span>
__The motivation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this </span>__research … communication links__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, such as SATCOM. </span>

**Effective strikes devastate terrorist groups and alleviate the threat.**
**Byman, ‘11**
[Daniel L., Professor at Georgetown University and Research Director of the Saban Center at Brookings Institution, “The Targeted Killings Debate,” 6-8, http://www.cfr.org/international-peace-and-security/targeted-killings-debate/p25230]
__Killing terrorist leaders and key … cohesion and strategic direction suffer.__

**UAV’s are key to reconnaissance which solves nuclear development**
**Hennigan** **10**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">W.J. reporter for Los Angeles Times, “ High-tech drones aiding the war on terrorism” November 28, 2010,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.statesman.com/business/technology/high-tech-drones-aiding-the-war-on-terrorism-1079496.html]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LOS ANGELES — A Global Hawk robotic … </span><span class="tagChar">__estimate when it was fired.__</span>

<span class="Underline">**Terrorists will either use nukes or knock out power plants, either way causing millions of deaths**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kimery 11** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Homeland Security Today's senior reporter and online editor (Anthony, W. Scott Malone, multiple Emmy and Peabody award-winning investigative journalist and former senior editor of NavySEALs.com. He runs the website's counterterrorism newsletter spin-off, “BlackNET Intelligence Channel,” 05/12, “Al Qaeda Could Try to Replicate Fukushima-type Meltdowns,” http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/the-kimery-report/blog/al-qaeda-could-try-to-replicate-fukushima-type-meltdowns/aa96292934d83bb8c9f97fd9d685f32b.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A May 5 "intelligence brief" prepared … </span><span class="Underline">or rupturing the right pipes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**Nuclear terrorism causes miscalc and Global Nuclear war**
**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand, Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies. “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects. //Studies in Conflict and Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, pages 571-593)</span>

__Washington's early response to a terrorist …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">unable or unwilling to provide.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Nuclear meltdowns cause extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lendman 11** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization (Stephen, 03/ 13, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reuters said the 1995 Kobe quake … </span><span class="Underline">, and parts of South America. </span>



**Bioterrorism attack causes extinction**
**Matheny 7 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, where his work focuses on technology forecasting and risk assessment - particularly of global catastrophic risks and existential risks.[1] He previously worked for the World Bank, the Center for Biosecurity, the Center for Global Development, and on national security projects for the US government. He is a Sommer Scholar and PhD candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University. He holds an MPH from Johns Hopkins, an MBA from Duke University, and a BA from the University of Chicago. (Jason Matheny, 2007, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” [[http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html)JCP]]</span>

**__Of current extinction risks, the …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>




**Status quo inaccuracies guarantee high levels of civilian casualties.**
**Thompson, ‘11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Loren, Chief Operating Officer at the Lexington Institute, Forbes contributor, 8-29, “The Revolution In Unmanned Aircraft Is Overrated,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/08/29/the-revolution-in-unmanned-aircraft-is-overrated/ </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span>__unmanned aircraft aren’t__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> really … their endurance is considerably greater.</span>

**High levels of collateral damage fuel terrorism -- boosts anti-Americanism and recruitment -- motivates attacks.**
**Schilmoeller, 2-22-12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Janessa, Mint Press News, “Pakistan Civilian Casualties Mounting In Obama’s Drone War,” http://www.mintpress.net/pakistan-civilian-casualties-mounting-in-obamas-drone-war/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Harming Relationships, Supporting the “enemy” … even more </span>__covert, technological tactics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Resentment destabilizes Pakistan -- increasing intel capabilities is key to prevent excessive casualties.**
**Byman, ‘9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Daniel L., Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, 7-14, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0714_targeted_killings_byman.aspx]</span>

__Killing terrorist leaders__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is difficult, … </span>__country and turning them against us."__

**Result: nuclear war, terrorism and global instability**
**Morgan, 10** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee. A political writer, his first book was "The Mind of a Terrorist Fundamentalist - the Cult of Al Qaeda." He is a journalist and columnist for http://www.thecheers.org/ magazine (Stephen, “Better Another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban Nuclear,” 6/4, http://society.ezinemark.com/better-another-taliban-afghanistan-than-a-taliban-nuclear-pakistan-4d0ce18ba75.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">S</span><span class="Underline">trong centrifugal forces have always … </span>and Russia pitted against the US.

**Nuclear winter**
**Toon et al., 2007**
[Owen B., –Professor of Atmospheric … __attacks with high-yield weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (4).</span>

**IRIS is key to solve these networking gaps**
**Cisco 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Cisco whitepaper reporting the results of a joint IRIS test mission with the DoD (2011, “Improving Communications Effectiveness and Reducing Costs with Internet Routing in Space: A DoD Joint Technology Capabilities Demonstration,” http://www.cisco.com/web/strategy/docs/gov/c11-644555_wp.pdf)JCP</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today’s national </span>__governments require ever-…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">off-the-shelf (COTS) technologies </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1ac – Internet</span>
<span class="Underline">**Advantage 2 is the Internet**</span>

<span class="Underline">**A “digital divide” is growing between the rich and poor – resolving this is key to telemedicine, the economy and democracy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Crawford 11**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Susan P. Crawford is a</span><span class="Underline"> professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law and a former special assistant to President Obama for science, technology and innovation policy,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “ The New Digital Divide” 12-3-11, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/04/opinion/sunday/internet-access-and-the-new-divide.html?pagewanted=all]], NEH)</span>

<span class="Underline">FOR the second year in a … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">subsidies for basic Internet access.) </span>

**Better internet connections key to the economy**
**Coit 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">America and the Global Economy Blog Leader, used the New York Times, McKinsey Global Institute, InternetNews.com, World Economic Forum, Business week, WhiteHouse.gov (John Coit, March 1, 2011, “US Broadband and International Competitiveness,” [[http://americaandtheglobaleconomy.wordpress.com/2011/03/01/us-broadband-and-international-competitiveness/]]) DR. H</span>

__The birthplace of the internet … base that supports economic growth.__

**Global economic crisis causes war---__…__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Thus, the answer to the … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**And the digital divide is collapsing American democracy – EVERYBODY needs to have broadband to solve**
**Rintels, 8**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Principal of Heathcote Strategies, Inc (Jonathan, Benton Foundation, “USING TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION TO ADDRESS OUR NATION’S CRITICAL CHALLENGES,”<span class="Text">[[@http://www.ntia.doc.gov/broadbandgrants/comments/1EA6.pdf]]</span> )</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sadly, </span>America<span class="Style2Char"> today </span>is<span class="Style2Char"> too … -century America, that is unacceptable. </span>

**This is vital to human survival**
**Montague 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Peter Montague, co-director Environmental Research Foundation and publisher of Rachael’s Environment and Health News, 14 October 1998 http://www.greenleft.org.au/1998/337/20135]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The environmental movement …</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;"> for human survival</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**IRIS is able to solve global broadband**
<span class="Underline">**Armstrong-Smith 11**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mike Armstrong-Smith, Space Newsfeed reporter, “ Will IRIS Change The Space Business”, May 2011, [[http://www.spacenewsfeed.co.uk/index.php/features/93-features/8142-will-iris-change-the-space-business]], NEH)</span>

<span style="color: #666666;">The Future </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="color: #333333;">IRIS </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">concept … </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">contain several hundred thousand terminals. </span>

**And it’s the only way to make the internet fast enough for everybody**
**Rowinski 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - staff reporter covering communications technologies for GCN (Government Computer News) (Dan, 2/9/11, “Can broadband plan connect the dots?,” http://gcn.com/Articles/2011/02/09/Technical-budget-problems-of-National-Broadband-Plan.aspx?p=1)JCP</span>

__The ways and means of … to those in remote areas.__

====Plan==== 



**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">The United States Department of Defense should implement a top-down acquisition strategy for the development of Internet Routing in Space.</span>**

===1ac – Solvency=== 

<span class="Underline">**Status quo can’t solve, but a new DOD IRIS strategy results in commercial investment** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Armstrong-Smith 11**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mike Armstrong-Smith, Space Newsfeed reporter, “ Will IRIS Change The Space Business”, May 2011, [[http://www.spacenewsfeed.co.uk/index.php/features/93-features/8142-will-iris-change-the-space-business]], NEH)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">If any one company is … </span>__<span style="color: #333333;">, cost savings could be significant.</span>__
<span style="color: #666666; font-size: 8pt;">Is It Commercial? </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cisco has just contracted with TeleCommunication Systems Inc to commercialise IRIS now that the demonstration phase of the project has been successfully completed (<span style="color: #135cae;">[[@http://www.cisco.com/web/strategy/docs/gov/TCS_pr021711.pdf]]</span>). This is the first big test of the commercial viability of IRIS. If TeleCommunication Systems can sell IRIS to commercial and government clients it will be a clear indicator that IRIS has a future. The next big test will be to see if one of the big four satellite operators (Eutelsat, Inmarsat, Intelsat and SES) will buy the concept and include an IRIS based payload on one of their future satellites. These satellite operators are extremely conservative and will require a great deal of persuasion to include such a commercially risky payload. Three key factors will make it difficult to sell IRIS to these satellite operators: Most of the income of Eutelsat, Intelsat and SES comes from TV transmission. VSAT services only generate a small part of their income, possibly making it difficult to justify the risk of including an innovative payload. These satellite operators are currently completing a phase of replacing satellites in their inventories and are slowing down their pace of procuring satellites. For several years there will be few launch opportunities with these operators. Eutelsat has already experimented with on-board processing with its Skyplex payloads which were included on three satellites, two of which are still operational. Clearly, Eutelsat has not found Skyplex to be a commercial success because it has not included Skyplex payloads in its recent satellite procurements. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whilst the major satellite operators … comfortable with it as a technology.</span>


<span class="Underline">**IRIS is key to NCW and DOD top-down acquisition approach is key – commercial spillover**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Szajnfarber and Weigel 08**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zoe </span><span class="Underline">Szajnfarber is an Assistant Professor of Engineering Management</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Systems Engineering at the George Washington University. and Annalisa L. </span><span class="Underline">Weigel is a Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ” Enabling Radical Innovation through Joint Capability Technology Demonstrations (JCTD): The Case of the Internet Routing in Space (IRIS) JCTD” [[http://seari.mit.edu/documents/preprints/SZAJNFARBER_JCTD_AIAA09.pdf]], NEH)</span>

<span class="Underline">This paper analyzes the case … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">system will ever be adopted. </span>


<span class="Underline">**DOD procurement is key to commercial spillover and costs**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Szajnfarber and Weigel 08**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zoe </span><span class="Underline">Szajnfarber is an Assistant Professor of Engineering Management</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Systems Engineering at the George Washington University. and Annalisa L. </span><span class="Underline">Weigel is a Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ” Enabling Radical Innovation through Joint Capability Technology Demonstrations (JCTD): The Case of the Internet Routing in Space (IRIS) JCTD” [[http://seari.mit.edu/documents/preprints/SZAJNFARBER_JCTD_AIAA09.pdf]], NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Advantages of Government Involvement </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a converse challenge associated with them.</span>

==2ac== 
===2ac - drones=== 

**High risk of Paki instability and collapse -- expert consensus.**
**Cohen, ‘11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen P., Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative -- The Brookings Institution, 12-5, “Pakistan: No Friend and a Fading Ally,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2011/1205_pakistan_cohen]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the current scenario is … </span>__five years, if not longer.__


===2ac – t human=== 



**CI: space development is creation of commercial market opportunities and exploration is R&D – Our aff meets both**
**Hsu and Cox, 9** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND **Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20,** </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]])</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Particularly, NASA needs reforms on … in solely by taxpayer contributions.</span>**


**Comparative evidence that your definition is wrong**
**Lester 9****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy, providing science and management policy, and is representing the astronomical community on the Lunar Exploration Roadmap effort he serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC), which reviews and provides advisory oversight and coordination of both space and ground-based astronomical research at NASA, NSF and DOE (Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” //Space Policy// Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What to do? There are few easy answers. However, the history of US exploration offers insight about places we can start.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, we should accept that “</span>__… no longer a particularly relevant distinction__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===2ac - XO cp=== 

**“The” is used to denote a specific entity**
**American Heritage, 00** (Fourth Edition, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/the)

**__the__**1 P (//th// //before a vowel;// //th// //…// : rural life in the Thirties.

**‘Resolved’ implies a specific course of action**
**American Heritage 2k** (The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language: Fourth Edition, http://www.bartleby.com/61/87/R0178700.html)
INTRANSITIVE VERB:1. To reach a decision<span class="underline0"> … </span>constituents. 3. Music To undergo resolution.




**XO links to politics**
**Risen, 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Clay Risen, Managing editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas, M.A. from the University of Chicago, 7-16-2004 “The Power of the Pen: The Not-So-Secret Weapon of Congress-wary Presidents” The American Prospect, [[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_power_of_the_pen]]]</span>

__The most effective check on …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as an anti-environmental president.</span>



**Congress rollback**
<span class="Heading2Char">Bedell ‘99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Acting General Counsel</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert Bedell, Office of Management and Budget Acting General Counsel, FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE, Lexisnexus.com, 10-27-99</span>

__With regard to the impact … of prerogatives to deal with it.__




===2ac – Psychoanalysis k=== 


**Violence is proximately caused – root cause logic is poor scholarship**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sharpe 10</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">lecturer, philosophy and psychoanalytic … and psychoanalytic studies – Deakin University, ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew and Geoff, Žižek and Politics: An Introduction, p. 231 – 233) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We realise that this argument, … it nor taking it seriously.</span>




**Violence is inevitable – it’s inherent in nature**
**Saunders, 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cat Saunders, PhD in psychotherapy, “Violence, Pacifism, and War.” October, http://drcat.org/dchh/html/violence.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like it or not, </span>__violence …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the horrors committed there.</span>


**No prior questions—focus on critical theory makes it impossible to describe the world and act**
**Owen 2,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 200**2** p. 655-7</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span>__so a potentially vicious circle arises.__





**Positing the role of the ballot as solely an intellectual rejection reflects a paranoid detachment from reality. Theory is useful when it provides an avenue for broader social change. Their act of rejection alone provides no useful method for explaining the world and reflects nothing more than their slavish devotion to the dogma of theory and their assumption of omnipotence**
**Bird, 06 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">University of the West of England, Bristol, UK (John, Psychoanalysis, Culture, & Society, “On the Poverty of Theory”, December, proquest)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Faced with these dilemmas, intellectuals … called a healthy relationship to theory. </span>

**2. No verifiable support for psychoanalysis outside of the clinical setting, it’s a tautology that can be used to explain ANY phenomena and the same method can justify two opposite conclusions**
**Gordon, 01 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> psychotherapist living and working in London. (Paul, Race & Class, “Psychoanalysis and racism:the politics of defeat”, April, sage publications database)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cohen's work unavoidably raises the … </span>__therefore nothing can be true__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Perm do both**


**4. Extend Wapner, focus on social theory allows the political to be ceded, that’s bad because****it will result in the takeover by the extreme right, leading to discrimination and war worldwide—only the perm solves**
**Rorty 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor emeritus of comparative literature and philosophy, by courtesy, at Stanford University (Richard, “ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America”, 1998, pg. 89-94)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many writers on socioeconomic policy … and insistent as a resourceful spook."10</span>


**Util**
<span class="tagChar">Harries, 94</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Editor @ The National Interest</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Owen, Power and Civilization, The National Interest, Spring, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Performance is the test. Asked … always have to be considered.</span>

===2ac – ex-IM ptx=== 

**The US is so far ahead that this impact is a joke**
**Work 09** (Robert, VP of Strategic Studies @ Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “Strategy for the Long Haul: the US Navy Charting A Course for Tomorrow’s Fleet”, http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20090217.The_US_Navy_Charti/R.20090217.The_US_Navy_Charti.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">On August 1, 2008, the TSBF numbered 280 … relationships with more international partners.12</span>

**Passage is inevitable – GOP is behind it, momentum, and bipartisanship**
**Barkley and Boles 4-26**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tom Barkley and Corey Boles Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES April 26, 2012, Conservative Republicans Urge Leadership To Renew Ex-Im Bank's Authority http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20120426-726035.html</span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A group of</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 30 conservative </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Republican</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">been proposed in the Senate.</span>

**Buffett rule thumps**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Benson 4-12</span>
Guy Benson Political Editor, Apr 12, 2012 Liberal Columnist: Yeah, the Buffett Rule is Kind of a Joke http://townhall.com/tipsheet/guybenson/2012/04/12/liberal_columnist_yeah_the_buffett_rule_is_kind_of_a_joke
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With respect, the House-passed … [link not found]. Milbank continues:</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pol Cap not key - ideologies</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jacobs and King 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">-- </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lawrence and Desmond, University of Minnesota (“Varieties of Obamaism: Structure, Agency, and the Obama Presidency,” Perspectives on Politics (2010), 8: 793-802) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But </span>personality is not a<span class="Underline"> … </span>pitches go only so far<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">DoD shields the link</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kaplan 10</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation [Fred, 10/6/2010, Slate Magazine, “The Marines Go Green,” <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.slate.com/id/2270165/pagenum/all/#p2|http://www.slate.com/id/2270165/pagenum/all/#p2]]</span>, DS]</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Two other factors increase the … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">fields and villages of</span>__ __<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Afghanistan.</span>__


**Obama caught up in Jackson vanik**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 4-25</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reuters April 25, 2012 U.S. eyes easier access to China, Russia markets http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-04-25/classified/sns-rt-us-ustr-singaporebre83p05j-20120425_1_russia-markets-trade-representative-ron-kirk-jackson-vanik</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> administration wants China … of the World Trade Organization."</span>


**Broadband is key to job creation.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cauley 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reporter for USA Today (Leslie Cauley, June 8, 2009, "Rural Americans long to be linked; Costs keep broadband connections from many,” Lexis) DR. H</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">By pushing hard on broadband, … </span>__, such as power or water.__

**The impact is an intolerable systemic harm affecting millions**
**Schewebel 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Distinguished professor in the Graduate School of Applies and Professional Psychology at Rutgers (Milton Schewebel, 1997, “Job Insecurity as Structural Violence: Implications for Destructive Intergroup Conflict,” Peace & Conflict journal, Volume 3 Issue 4, p.338-340, WEA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE MEANING OF WORK Psychologists … consequences for good or ill. </span>


==1ar== 


===1ar - drones=== 

**Several causes of Sino-Russian tension**
**Dyer 08** (Geoff, FT's Beijing bureau chief, Financial Times, 8/28, "Russia could push China closer to the west" proquest)

Chinese leaders will not be … was firmly on its side.



===1ar – psychoanalysis k=== 

**Focus on representations destroys social change**
**Taft-Kaufman, 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jill, professor, Department of Speech Communication And Dramatic Arts, at Central Michigan University, Southern Communication Journal, Spring, proquest)</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The postmodern passwords of "polyvocality," "… the budgets that fuel them.</span>



**No root cause. Blaming systems of thought or action is pointless. Impacts are proximately caused.**
**Curtler, 1997**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Hugh Mercer, Prof. Phil. – Southwest State U. “Rediscovering values: coming to terms with Postmodernism”, Netlibrary, p. 164-165]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time,</span> __we …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">additional problems with postmodernism, however.</span>



**And, the fact that we may not become policymakers makes this education more important, not less**
**Keller, Whittaker, and Burke, 2001** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Thomas E., James K., and Tracly K., Asst. professor School of Social Service Administration U. of Chicago, professor of Social Work, and doctoral student School of Social Work, "Student debates in policy courses: promoting policy practice skills and knowledge through active learning," Journal of Social Work Education, Spr/Summer, EBSCOhost)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Experiential learning, in the form … </span>__, may remember longer__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Meyers & Jones, 1993).</span>


**Death exists, Lanza has no evidence to the contrary and he monumentally misinterprets quantum physics**
**Orac, 10 -** Orac is the nom de blog of a humble pseudonymous surgeon/scientist **,** Orac's "real" identity is more or less an open secret among some parts of the blogosphere, but he nonetheless keeps using the Orac pseudonym because he doesn't want his blog to be the first thing that comes up when patients Google his "real" name. Note from DH – some research turned up who he actually is – despite it not being on his blog - David Gorski is an associate professor of medicine at the Department of Surgery in the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School (**“**[[http://scienceblogs.com/insolence/2010/06/dr_lanza_and_biocentrism_time_to_get_out.php|Dr. Robert Lanza and "biocentrism": Time to get out the paper bag again]],” 6/15 [[http://scienceblogs.com/insolence/2010/06/dr_lanza_and_biocentrism_time_to_get_out.php]] [[http://scienceblogs.com/insolence/2010/06/dr_lanza_and_biocentrism_time_to_get_out.php0|)]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here's what I mean. Get a load … things. Our consciousnesses are prime. </span>













=Round 2= 

==1nc== 

===1nc ptx da=== 

**Jackson-Vanik will be repealed soon and is key to relations– Obama and business support**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korotun 4-4 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lada Korotun, reporter for voice of Russia, Apr 4, 2012 Jackson-Vanik amendment may be gone by summer english.ruvr.ru/2012_04_04/Cold-War-law-russian-trade-world-trade/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The last remaining “dinosaur” of … </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">a metaphor and means something</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (end)</span>


**ORS is politically unpopular**
**Rendleman, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

__Whether the DOD will decide …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to support a winning space strategy.</span>



**Political capital is key to repealing Jackson-Vanik**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Stokes 11 – </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bruce Stokes January 26, 2011 An Agenda, If You Can Keep It http://nationaljournal.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/member/daily/an-agenda-if-you-can-keep-it-20110126?mrefid=site_searchAfter years of relative quiescence, Congress actually has a trade agenda in 2011: possible votes on the Korea, Colombia, and Panama trade agreements, and on Russia’s application to join the World Trade Organization.</span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Whether</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline">when, how, and which</span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… </span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline">could be an uphill slog.</span>
**Repealing Jackson-Vanik is key to Russian relations**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aslund & Bergsten 10 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ANDERS ASLUND and C. FRED BERGSTEN June 21, 2010 Foreign Policy: Let Russia Join the WTO [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=127981016]]</span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">nited </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">tates </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">still maintains </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russian cooperation</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> more than ever.</span>__</span>


<span class="Underline">**Russian relations key to prevent** **nuclear war** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Allison and Blackwill 10-30**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-11. Graham Allison director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School and a former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration. Robert Blackwill is Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration. They are co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest “ 10 reasons why Russia still matters” Politico [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1011/67178.html]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">House Speaker John Boehner recently … , in advancing our national interests.</span>

===1nc commercial only=== 

**A. Interpretation - Exploration is space science and development is the creation of commercial market activities**
**Hsu and Cox, 9 -** *Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND **Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Particularly, NASA needs reforms on … in solely by taxpayer contributions.</span>

===1nc INTELSAT cp=== 

**The United States federal government should propose to the United Nations to develop Operationally Responsive Space by developing a launch infrastructure that allows launch on demand, small satellite development, reconstitution, maneuverability, hardening of satellites, and space situational awareness to be undertaken by a new global space agency, modeled off of INTELSAT. The United States should offer to provide any requested resources and expertise for the global space agency to develop Operationally Responsive Space, but leave the program design and deployment to the global space agency.**

**Competes - ‘Its’ requires US ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 5**
(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

Mine, yours, his, hers, __its__, … to __show__ possession or __ownership__.
EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

**The counterplan renounces US ownership in favor of international control**
**Crawford, 92** - Department of Physics and Astronomy University College London (Ian, Space Policy, “A Space Programme for Planet Earth”, April, Science Direct)

<span style="color: #020202; font-size: 8pt;">These are the major arguments … </span>__the principle is basically sound.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In my earlier article [1] I suggested that a world space agency should be institutionally linked to the United Nations; given that its responsibilities will include the maintenance of international law in outer space and the provision of assistance to developing countries in the field of space research, there is no reason to change this view. Indeed there now appears to be a much greater probability of the UN taking on some much needed functions of world government, and I believe that space policy certainly ought to be one of these - a sort of Foreign Policy for Planet Earth.</span>

**It solves the case, other spacefaring powers say yes and it creates a more sustainable space strategy that avoids duplication of effort**
**Sample, 11** – correspondent for The Guardian (Ian, The Guardian, “Nasa must collaborate if it is to continue its mission in space,” 7/21,
http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2011/jul/21/global-space-station-future-nasa)

<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">The uncertainty that swirls around … </span>__<span style="color: #333333;">and distributes contracts and responsibilities</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">There are good reasons a global space agency does not exist. Those nations that have space programmes have their own agendas and want the political prestige for themselves. More practically, by learning how to send robots and humans into space, nations gain the kind of first-hand knowledge that drives competitive, high-technology industries.</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">But all this comes at a cost. Space exploration is piecemeal, fragile and sluggish when nations go their own way. In the half century since Yuri Gagarin's flight in 1961, we have not gone far: only the two dozen Apollo astronauts have ventured beyond low Earth orbit, a few hundred kilometres high.</span>
__<span style="color: #333333;">There is a vast and expensive … </span>____<span style="color: #333333;">achieve ambitious goals more swiftly</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Plan’s unilateralism destroys the transition … incorporate cooperation __prior to__ implementation**
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf </span>

<span class="Underline">International </span>cooperation in space exploration … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">cooperation would be more likely.</span>

**Creating formal international space cooperation spills over globally to other forms of cooperation – key to the economy, preventing pandemics and warming**
**Gallagher, 10** – Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland, University of Maryland (Nancy, “Space Governance and International Cooperation” http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/space_governance_and_international_cooperation.pdf

__The central strategic challenge facing … **build effective global governance institutions**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Extinction**
**Tickell 8** (Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, 8-11, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We need to get prepared … us towards </span>__a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> similar </span>__hothouse Earth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**Mitchell et al, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__


===1nc tech k=== 

**Utilitarianism demands thinking of time frames differently; we do not just have an obligation to the now but to the infinite lives of the future. Rapidly embracing technology that we do not understand jeopardizes the planet.**
**Brand, 99** (Stewart, Editor of the Whole Earth Catalog, Founder of the Long Now Foundation, //The Clock of the Long Now, Time and Responsibility,// 8-9).

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The number of human beings … , if those changes are slow.”</span>


**Each new technological doubling threatens cataclysmic change. We are blindly crashing into the Singularity (an era where computers are smarter and more creative than humans).**
**Brand, 99** (Stewart, Editor of the Whole Earth Catalog, Founder of the Long Now Foundation, //The Clock of the Long Now, Time and Responsibility,// 15-17).

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With technological acceleration driving economic … </span>__of the century: the Singularity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>


**Singularity causes extinction—environmental collapse**
**Bell 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Author and Writer for Sustain, a national environmental information group, Earth Island Journal, Vol. 17 No. 2, “Technotopia & the Death of Nature, Clones, Supercomputers, and Robots,” http://www.earthisland.org/eijournal/new_articles.cfm?articleID=586&journalID=64)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet </span>__there is something missing … could be only one winner.__


**The alternative is not a complete rejection of all aspects of humanism but a rejection of faith in technology and our ability to master the universe.**
**Ehrenfeld, 81** (David, //The Arrogance of Humanism//, Professor of Biology @ Rutgers, <span style="background-color: white;">Fellow: American Association for the Advancement of Science, page 4-6).</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is more than an … expressed and is sometimes denied.</span>



===1nc - Deterrence adv=== 

<span class="bbl">**China will only pursue a defensive strategy in space – its focusing on the economy and wants a dialogue** </span>
<span class="bbl">**Li** </span>**11** – <span class="bdl">secretary-general of China Arms Control and Disarmament Association</span> (Hong, August 3, China Daily: :MAKE OUTER SPACE SAFE FOR ALL,” LexisNexis WSX)

__China has always advocated peaceful …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">on equality and mutual respect.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US' policies and legal frameworks, including arms sales to Taiwan, high-tech exports restrictions on China and non-use of Chinese rockets to launch US satellites seriously undermine the political foundation of China-US dialogue on space.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Besides carrying out such dialogue,</span> __…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the two countries' militaries. </span>

<span class="Underline">**No impact to space attack - the US only needs 4 to have full GPS capabilities and redundancy means an attack would leave some standing**</span>
**Forden, 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– writer for Arms Control Today (Geoffrey, “After China's Test: Time For a Limited Ban on Anti-Satellite Weapons. Arms Control Today, April 2007, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2007_04/Forden</span>**)**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, </span>__an … , are not as time critical.__

**Plan fails - Cyberattacks**
**Donahue, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)</span>

__Another unpredictable driving force that … impact space systems for years__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.90</span>

**Heg inevitable – their ev is perennial scaremongering**
**Nye, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- December University Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard University and former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (December 2010, “THE FUTURE OF AMERICAN POWER: DOMINANCE AND DECLINE IN PERSPECTIVE.” Published by Foreign affairs, http://1431731ontario.net/Current/Articles/TheFutureOfAmericanPower_DominanceAndDeclineInPerspective.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite such differences, </span>__Americans are … to dangerous mistakes in policy.__

**Heg doesn’t solve war -- structure of the international system checks.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Preble 9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Christopher, Director of Foreign Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (May 20, 2009, Does Military Power Keep Us Safe? (Part II),” http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10228)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For too long, we have … </span>__darkest reaches of his imagination__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Deterrence by denial fails – adversaries will attack even if success chances are small because the pay-off is large**
**Morgan, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Difficulties of Denial-Based Deterrence in Space</span>
__Efforts to deter__ __would-be …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of them suffer certain limitations.</span>




===1nc - launch costs adv.=== 

**1) Space is analogous to the submarine industry – technological advances don’t decrease costs because of fundamental chemistry and physics barriers**
**Dudley-Flores and Gangale, 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - * CEO/Chief Research Scientist, OPS-Alaska AND **Executive Director, OPS-Alaska (Marilyn and Thomas, “The Globalization of Space – The Astrosociological Approach,” http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&sqi=2&ved=0CBUQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fciteseerx.ist.psu.edu%2Fviewdoc%2Fdownload%3Fdoi%3D10.1.1.119.3333%26rep%3Drep1%26type%3Dpdf&ei=UsUyTvjvL5HFswas8dnoBg&usg=AFQjCNFhAa0_nHNl7TtsJeUDsSZBeTFnAg**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When Gangale was in engineering … kind of future we want.</span>**

2) Regulations and economics mean launch costs won’t ever be reduced
Stephenson, 11 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2/2/11, Neal, Slate Future Tense – science collaboration with Arizona State University and the New America Foundation, “Space Stasis,” http://www.slate.com/id/2283469/pagenum/all)RK</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2. If </span>__satellites and launches__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>** __merely expensive; it's a physical impossibility.__

Resource wars won’t escalate to great power conflict
Dombrowski 4 **– associate professor, US Naval War College's Strategic Research Department (Peter, Naval War College Review, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_1_57/ai_113755359/print)**

**Unfortunately, __Klare barely pauses to …__ fundamental and elemental as water.**

All previous human spaceflight is insignificant – long term colonization is still infeasible.
Launius 10** – (2010, Roger, PhD, Curator, Planetary Exploration Programs, National Air and Space Museum, expert on Aerospace history, fellow and board member of the American Astronautical Society, “Can we colonize the solar system? Human biology and survival in the extreme space environment,” Endeavour Volume 34, Issue 3, September 2010, Pages 122-129, science direct, DH)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although microbial life might survive … </span><span class="Underline">engaged in space colonization</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Figure 4). </span>



==2nc== 

===cp solves - generic=== 

**International collaboration is a prerequisite to fast technological development, stable industry investment, and peaceful space security.**
**Kalam, ‘9** - former President of India (A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, “Can Space Cooperation Lead to Space Security?” Space Security and Global Cooperation, Ajay Lele and Gunjan Singh (Eds), New Delhi: Academic Foundation/Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, 2009. p.23-24 CT)

__The future space programme__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">has … </span>have a great challenge and opportunity.
===cp solves - aerospace=== 

**International cooperation boosts US employment and the aerospace industry by creating the perception of greater program stability**
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reason #4: </span>__International Cooperation Enables Workforce …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">least </span>__less likely to decrease__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

===cp solves – space security=== 

**A World Space Agency will solidify global cooperation in space – it creates political momentum to solve all problems regarding security dilemmas and treaty verification**
**Crawford, 92** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Department of Physics and Astronomy University College London (Ian, Space Policy, “A Space Programme for Planet Earth”, April, Science Direct)</span>

<span style="color: #020202; font-size: 8pt;">This article argues that the … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for essentially the same reasons.</span>



===AT: Perm do both=== 

**The permutation pays lip service … __planning__ stages from the outset.**
**Abbey and Lane, 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– * Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University AND ** Malcolm Gillis University Professor at Rice University (George and Neal, “United States Space Policy: Challenges and Opportunities Gone Astray,” http://carnegie.org/fileadmin/Media/Publications/PDF/spaceUS.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In our 2005 paper, we expressed … that degree of international cooperation.</span>




===AT: Perm do the CP=== 

**Gallagher, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland, University of Maryland (Nancy, “Space Governance and International Cooperation” http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/space_governance_and_international_cooperation.pdf</span>

__The **most important step** in … comprehensively to global space governance.__


===2nc impact overview=== 

**Taboo and deterrence prevents the risk of nuclear war, the threshold for space conflict is much lower**
**Bao** **7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bao Shixiu, senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, Academy of Military Sciences of the PLA of China, visiting scholar at the Virginia Military Institute//,// “Deterrence Revisited: Outer Space,” China Security, Winter, 2007, p2-11, http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_1.pdf]</span>

__Space weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and their use </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of a “deterrent capability” in space.</span>

===weaponization – turns heg=== 
**Space weaponization undermines hardpower - makes the US net more vulnerable**
**Hitchens 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Hitchens, Theresa. Director, Center for Defense Information, Leader of Space Security Project in cooperation with the Secure World Foundation. The author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” Cited by Center for Nonproliferation Studies Mountbatten Centre for “International Studies Future Security in Space: Commercial, Military, and Arms Control Trade-Offs Occasional”]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Karl Mueller, a former Air … — with maintenance costs a key issue.</span>
===links – unilateral actions=== 

**The plan’s unilateralism undermines the … the commitment to international partnership**
**Smith 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- Space and Technology Policy Group </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(February, 2011, Marcia A., Space Policy, Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Over succeeding months </span>__national … for which all are responsible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2. Implementing the new policy</span>
__A policy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, of course, </span>__is …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at the UN in October 2010 [5]. </span>




===link – defense: passive=== 
**Other countries will assume the worst**
**Zhang 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Political Science … ,” </span>__Asian Survey__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332)</span>

__This strategy of space dominance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … </span>__of the world won’t accept__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”17</span>



===link – spending=== 

**Plan removes the primary motive driving cooperation – the expectation of a declining space budget**
**Fukushima 11—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Institute for Defense Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(February, 2011, **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Yasuhito, Space Policy, </span>**“An Asian perspective on the new US space policy: The emphasis on international cooperation and its relevance to Asia” Vol. 27, Issue 1, Science Direct, FS) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Leveraging the increasing opportunities to … market access for US industry.”</span>


===XT – china=== 
**Obama solves any alt causes and the plan’s unilateralism triggers the link**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Zhang 11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Baohui, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship The Prospects for Arms Control,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, Number 2, pp. 311–332, Proquest</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Kevin Narizny points out … </span><span class="Underline">prevention of an arms race</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” 45</span>

===XT: coop solves impacts=== 

**A. Cooperation NOW creates shared vocabulary, bilateral arrangements, and guidelines**
**Hayes, 9 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lt Col, USAF, paper submitted to the Faculty of the Joint Advanced Warfighting School in partial satisfaction of the requirements of a Master of Science Degree in Joint Campaign Planning and Strategy (Tracey, “PROPOSAL FOR A COOPERATIVE SPACE STRATEGY WITH CHINA”, http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada530117.pdf)</span>

__Cooperation can prevent conflict escalation, … , thus preventing potential crisis escalation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




===cp solves - x-37b=== 
**Don’t believe the hype – it’s just a military space shuttle – there is zero weaponization potential and the international community is only seeking assurances**
**Abramson, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeff, “U.S. Launch Stirs Space Weaponization Concerns,” May, Arms Control Today, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7462/is_201005/ai_n54364100/)</span>

__<span style="color: #252525;">The U.S. Air Force launched a reusable … </span>__<span style="color: #252525; font-size: 8pt;">before the first one returns.</span>

**Opposition to the X-37B is only because it was a secret program that raised suspicion – a commitment to greater transparency solves**
**Axe, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Wired, “Secret U.S. Space … Plane May Be </span>//Too//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mysterious,” 11/18, </span>
http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2010/11/secret-spaceplane-eludes-observers-spooks-governments/

__The X-37’s__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> flexibility — “</span>__dual-use__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” … , but it takes a fine balance.”</span>


**A new political window exists now – the cancelation of the space shuttle and nascent global cooperation efforts creates political will to move beyond US leadership**
**Sample, 11** – correspondent for The Guardian (Ian, The Guardian, “Space shuttle retirement leaves 'yawning gap' in human spaceflight,” 7/7,
http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2011/jul/07/space-shuttle-retirement-human-spaceflight)

<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">According to Crawford, </span>__<span style="color: #333333;">there is a … </span>____<span style="color: #333333;">all the spacefaring nations contribute</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>









==1nr== 

===A2: asteroids addon=== 
**There’s no imminent threat to the Earth and we would have centuries of warning in the status quo**
**BENNETT 2010** (James, Prof of Economics at George Mason, //The Doomsday Lobby: Hype and Panic from Sputniks, Martians, and Marauding Meteors//, p. 168-169
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Cooler heads intervened. Donald Yeomans … </span>__time to decide what to do__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”97</span>

**Not an existential risk – you use bad science**
**BENNETT 2010** (James, Prof of Economics at George Mason, //The Doomsday Lobby: Hype and Panic from Sputniks, Martians, and Marauding Meteors//, p. 144-145)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It should be noted that </span>__… 40 million years. We have time__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===A2: norad addon=== 


**Existing SSA solves NORAD**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ben </span>**Baseley-Walker and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brian </span>**Weeden**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 20</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; Ben Baseley-Walker is Legal and Policy Advisor at the Secure World Foundation, based in Superior, Colorado, United States. He is currently working on the disarmament aspects of space security. Brian Weeden is Technical Advisor at the Secure World Foundation. and currently focuses on global space situational awareness, space traffic management, protection of space assets and preventing conflict in space. “Verification in space: theories, realities and possibilities”http://www.unidir.ch/pdf/articles/pdf-art3001.pdf</span>

__The orbital parameters of space … satellites or with space debris.__

**--Backups provide redundancy, new services are being added, and priority shifting in the Air Force solves**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amy </span>**Butler**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 7-3-200</span>**9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; Aviation Week, USAF Boosts Space Situational Awareness </span>[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story.jsp?id=news/AWARE070309.xml&headline=USAF%20Boosts%20Space%20Situational%20Awareness&channel=defense]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition, officials are adding … 20 more people to sustain operations. </span>



**No miscalc or accidents—every crisis ever disproves and neither side would launch**
**Quinlan 9** (Michael, Former Permanent Under-Sec. State – UK Ministry of Defense, “Thinking about Nuclear Weapons: Principles, Problems, Prospects”, p. 63-69)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Even if initial nuclear use … </span>__way belongs to science fiction__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


===A2: budget cuts addon=== 

**Years and years of data prove no impact—doses are low and natural chemicals are worse.**
**Trewavas 2004** (Anthony, Prof. U. Edinburgh Studying Plant Physiology and Molecular Biology, Crop Protection, “A critical assessment of organic farming-and-food assertions with particular respect to the UK and the potential environmental benefits of no-till agriculture”, 23:9, ScienceDirect)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Chemophobia, </span>the unreasonable fear of … <span class="UnderlineChar">public health</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ( Coggon and Inskip, 1994).</span>


**Turn – chemical hormesis, fool**
**Trewavas 2004** (Anthony, Prof. U. Edinburgh Studying Plant Physiology and Molecular Biology, Crop Protection, “A critical assessment of organic farming-and-food assertions with particular respect to the UK and the potential environmental benefits of no-till agriculture”, 23:9, ScienceDirect)

Hormesis is the paradoxical effect … <span class="UnderlineChar">beneficial action in reducing cancer</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


===1nr - deterrence adv=== 


**The US won’t preemptively attack, and even if we did, we’d quickly win the war before escalation**
**Bin 1 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">associate professor and director of the Arms Control Program at the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua University (March 2001, Li, "The Effects of NMD on Chinese Strategy”, Jane’s Intelligence Review, Vol. 13, No. 3, pg. 49-52, http://irchina.org/en/xueren/china/view.asp?id=703) MGM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chinese nuclear development may be … </span>__a first nuclear attack from the U.S.__


**Heg is sustainable -- demographics, political and economic flexibility, culture/diversity, hard power, ag/fossil fuel resources -- no one even comes close. For real.**
**Hanson, 2-8-12**
[Victor Davis, Martin and Illie Anderson Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, classicist and an expert on the history of war, regular contributor to National Review Online and many other national and international publications, he has written or edited twenty books, “A Post-American World?” http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/290335/post-american-world-victor-davis-hanson]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__is the latest cry-… -American than a post-American age.__

===__<span style="text-decoration: none;">1nr - launch costs</span>__=== 

**Space policy activists are fixated on technology – ORS is a prime example of how wildly they exaggerate the benefits and how disconnected they are from real world economic and technological constraints**
**Day, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - space policy analyst and senior program officer with the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board at the National Research Council (Dwayne, “Space fetishism: space activism’s obsession with technological and ideological saviors,” 12/21, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1534/1)</span>

__You don’t have to spend …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the activists are excited about. </span>








=Round 3= 
==1nc== 
Uniqueness counterplan to offset SLS costs
Tech k above
Jackson vanik da above

===T - increase=== 

**“Substantial increase” in the … means __at least 500 million dollars__.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chase 3</span> (Brian, US Space Agent, March-April 2003, “Washington Update: The Columbia Investigation,” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume15/v15n2/contents/v15n2f1.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Columbia was lost just … </span><span class="Underline">to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> nearly </span>__$<span class="Underline">15.5 billion</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in FY04. </span>

**And “increase” means to become … larger or greater in __quantity__.**
**Encarta Online Dictionary.** 20**06** ["Increase." [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741]] //STRONG]
in•crease<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ in krss ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">transitive … </span>in number, quantity, or degree
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">noun (plural in•creas•es)</span>

===1nc solvency=== 

**High launch costs mean the plan’s catalytic effect won’t occur**
**Mankins, 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - president of the Space Power Association, and former Manager, Advanced Concepts Studies, Office of Space Flight at NASA (John, Ad Astra, “Inexhaustible Energy from Orbit” Spring 2008, pg. 20, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Lower-Cost Space Access. </span>__Space … services at the lower prices.__

<span class="Underline">**Regulations and economics mean launch costs won’t ever be reduced**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Stephenson, 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2/2/11, Neal, Slate Future Tense – science collaboration with Arizona State University and the New America Foundation, “Space Stasis,” http://www.slate.com/id/2283469/pagenum/all)RK</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2. If </span>satellites and launches<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span><span class="Underline">**merely expensive; it's a physical impossibility.**</span>

**Cost barriers crush projects even if the technology is fully achievable – history proves their aff is a pipedream**
**Dudley-Flores and Gangale, 7**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - * CEO/Chief Research Scientist, OPS-Alaska AND ** Executive Director, OPS-Alaska (Marilyn and Thomas, “The Globalization of Space – The Astrosociological Approach,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&sqi=2&ved=0CBUQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fciteseerx.ist.psu.edu%2Fviewdoc%2Fdownload%3Fdoi%3D10.1.1.119.3333%26rep%3Drep1%26type%3Dpdf&ei=UsUyTvjvL5HFswas8dnoBg&usg=AFQjCNFhAa0_nHNl7TtsJeUDsSZBeTFnAg]]</span>

__Just because the …they are governmental or commercial__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


===1nc - rockets adv=== 

**Extinction genetically impossible and ahistorical**
**Posner 2005** (Richard A., Judge U.S. Court of Appeals 7th Circuit, Professor Chicago School of Law, January 1, 2005, Skeptic, Altadena, CA, Catastrophe: Risk and Response, http://goliath.ecnext.com/coms2/gi_0199-4150331/Catastrophe-the-dozen-most-significant.html#abstract)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Yet the fact </span>__that Homo …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">pathogen than smallpox ever was.</span>

**SARS proves intervening actors check**
**Nishiura 05** (H Nishiura Bangkok School of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University,Thailand , K Patanarapelert, M Sriprom, W Sarakorn, S Sriyab , Department of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Mahidol University and I Ming Tang Institute of Science and Technology for Research and Development, Mahidol University “EVIDENCE BASED PUBLIC HEALTH POLICY AND PRACTICE Modelling potential responses to severe acute respiratory syndrome in Japan: the role of initial attack size, precaution, and quarantine” http://www.hawaii.edu/hivandaids/Modelling_Potential_Responses_to_Sev ere_Acute_Respiratory_Syndrome_in_Japan.pdf August 29, 2005)

__There has been an intensive … workers__ __as was pointed out__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>



<span class="Underline">**Zero impact --- no acquisition.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Leitenberg ‘6** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Milton, Senior research scholar at the University of Maryland, Trained as a Scientist and Moved into the Field of Arms Control in 1966, First American Recruited to Work at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, Affiliated with the Swedish Institute of International Affairs and the Center for International Studies Peace Program at Cornell University, Senior Fellow at CISSM,</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.commondreams.org/views06/0217-27.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So what substantiates the alarm … are creating our worst nightmare.</span>



<span class="Underline">**Death tolls are massively exaggerated.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Leitenberg ‘6** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Milton, Senior research scholar at the University of Maryland, Trained as a Scientist and Moved into the Field of Arms Control in 1966, First American Recruited to Work at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, Affiliated with the Swedish Institute of International Affairs and the Center for International Studies Peace Program at Cornell University, Senior Fellow at CISSM,</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.commondreams.org/views06/0217-27.htm)</span>

<span class="Underline">The United States has spent … than 11 million people each year?</span>







===1nc – launch costs=== 
**Double bind, either warming science is already solid and skeptics deny it which means the aff fails or the science is flawed and there’s no impact**

**Status quo solves and turn – disbelief deepens as the scale of the threat grows**
**Hanley 11** – AP Special Correspondent (Charles, September 25, “The American 'allergy' to global warming: Why?”, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5hchUFDTcFVXkIzVWWH9iYGIXmCtw?docId=d837de45d0f44d3e8d178949d13b180c, WSX)

NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked … that sustains us."


**No extinction**
**INPCC 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Surviving the unprecedented climate change of the IPCC. 8 March 2011. [[http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2011/mar/8mar2011a5.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a paper published in //Systematics …// </span>__wide amplitude fluctuations in climate."__


=aerospace= 
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Aerospace unbelievably strong – GDP growth, exports, air traffic, huge demand</span>**</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Zacks 12/7 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Zacks Equity Research, “Aerospace … )</span></span>

__<span style="color: #030303;">The tide for commercial **aerospace …** </span>__<span style="color: #030303; font-size: 8pt;">investors, employees and employers alike.</span>



**No impact to econ**
**Bennett and Norstrom 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> D. Scott Bennett and Timothy Nordstrom, February 2k. Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State. “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, Ebsco.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this analysis, </span>__we focus …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">account for substitutability between them.</span>


**Lowering launch costs causes a competitive spiral and takes away European aerospace’s key market share**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John K. </span>**Strickland**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Jr. 9-30-20</span>**11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; chairman for the Austin Space Frontier Society, “The SpaceX Falcon Heavy Booster: Why Is It Important?” http://blog.nss.org/?p=3080</span>

__Decades ago, the US lost …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">transportation in and beyond orbit. </span>


**European aerospace strength and procurement advantage is key to overall EU defense and prevents extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">General Håkan </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Syrén</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chairman of the European Union Military Committee (EUMC), “Strengthening European Military Capabilities Through Enhanced Cooperation”, Summer, Aerospace and Defence Focus, http://www.asd-europe.org/site/fileadmin/user_upload/publications/FOCUS-5.pdf</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">European security concerns </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As we … </span>a<span class="UnderlineChar"> truly </span>open<span class="UnderlineChar"> European </span>defence market<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




=Round 4= 



==<span class="Underline"> 1ac- eml2</span>== 
===Advantage 1: hegemony=== 
**A moon presence is critical to hegemony –geopolitical competition now**
**Schmitt 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">— adjunct professor of engineering … back on the right track.</span>



**And, Lunar dominance is critical to overall leadership---bolsters hard and soft power---now is key**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spudis 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, February 9, “The New Space Race,” [[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Opinion_Editorial/NewSpaceRace.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">In one of his early … the Vision for Space Exploration.</span>




**Unipolarity is necessary to prevent miscalculation and global war -- empirics -- decline makes every impact inevitable.**
**Kagan, 2-11**-<span style="font-size: 8pt;">12</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Robert, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe, “Why the World Needs America,” [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2012/0211_us_power_kagan]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">History shows that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">world orders</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, … American order came into being. </span>


**Social science proves that the alternative to hegemony is great power war—no peaceful transition**
**Wohlforth, 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– professor of government at Dartmouth (</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, andGreat Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The upshot is a near scholarly … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">tend to be zero sum</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.9</span>




===Advantage 2: radioastronomy=== 
<span class="Underline">**Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered** </span>
<span class="Underline">**NRC 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Research Council Committee … .nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>

__Ground-based telescopes have difficulty … as possible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, especially imminent impactors.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Far side of the moon key to radioastronomy and NEO detection**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wieczorek et al. 11**, </span><span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">Marc Wieczorek Planetary … , NEH)</span>

The farside of the Moon … <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the origin of these objects.</span>


<span class="Underline">**And L2 radio astronomy is key to asteroid detection – flux distributions and more precise measurements**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wieczorek et al. 11**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marc Wieczorek Planetary … , NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2.2.4 Earth–Moon impact hazards </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">better than 1 km and 0.5 s, respectively. </span>




**Early Warning systems are critical to accurate deflection**
**Millis, 11.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John is an assistant professor of astronomy and physics at Anderson University. He received his PhD from Purdue in High Energy Astrophysics. He has taught physics and astronomy at the collegiate level since 2001. No date, site updated in 2011, “Killer Asteroids and Comets: How Will We Stop Armageddon?” http://space.about.com/od/frequentlyaskedquestions/a/KillerAsteroids.htm, CALLAHAN)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There have been movies made … </span>__taking these threats more seriously__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



**Asteroids are aperiodic means timeframe can’t be evaluated**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Brownfield 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roger, Gaishiled Project, “A Million Miles a Day”, Presentation at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth From Asteroids, 2-26, http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable= Paper&g ID=17092)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Once upon a time there was a … expectation... and its attendant fear. </span>


**This is a truly existential threat**
**McGUIRE 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Tunguska events pale into … </span>__considerably more__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of my </span>__business__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**Asteroids outweigh everything and evacuation would do nothing**
<span class="Underline">**Lewis 96** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- professor of planetary science at the University of Arizona's Lunar and Planetary Laboratory (John S., Rain of Iron and Ice, p. 183-222 1996)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The cost of finding and … densely populated planet is unacceptable.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Radio astronomy is critical to American competitiveness** </span>
<span class="Underline">**NRAO 06** – National Radio Astronomy Observatory (October 2006, staff of NRAO, “Radio Astronomy Contributing to American Competitiveness” http://www.nrao.edu/news/Technology_doc_final.pdf) CB</span>

Radio astronomy is an exemplary … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the country and the world. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is clear that radio astronomy is a valuable national resource that not only increases our fundamental knowledge of the universe, but also contributes significantly to American competitiveness. Only a few endeavors lead to a wide variety of useful and marketable technologies, processes, and techniques, and at the same time, stir the imagination of young and old minds alike. Radio astronomy is one of them. </span>


**Competitiveness prevents great power nuclear war**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad 11 – </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Zalmay</span><span class="CitesChar" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Khalilzad</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, “ The Economy and National Security”, 2-8-11, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We face this domestic challenge … crisis that we face today.</span>



===Advantage 3: colonization=== 
<span class="Underline">**Extinction is inevitable – space col key to solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gott 02,** </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">J Richard Gott III, professor of astrophysical sciences at Princeton University. “ Spaceflight or Extinction” [[http://www.spaext.com/info/gott/index.html]], NEH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Staying on Earth increases the … </span><span class="Underline">chances instead of one. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Ibid., 231. </span>


**Reducing existential risk****__by even a …__ is**//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">conclusively on our side</span>**//**.**
**Bostrom 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become … benefit of such an action.</span>

**Space colonization accesses this**
**Bostrom ’03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, Research Fellow and professor of philosophy at Oxford, “Astronomical Waste”, Utilitas, Vol. 15, No. 3, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html/)</span>

__From a utilitarian perspective, this huge … that level of utilitarian payoff.__


<span class="Underline">**And an EML-2 waypoint allows for successful lunar colonization**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mosher** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2-21-</span><span class="Underline">**12**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dave, reporter for Popular Mechanic, “Why Is Everyone So Fascinated With the Far Side of the Moon?” [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/moon-mars/why-is-everyone-so-fascinated-with-the-far-side-of-the-moon]], NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why the sudden interest, both … through pretty terrible movie plots." </span>


===Plan=== 

<span class="Underline">**The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of a human-tended waypoint at Earth-moon libration point 2.**</span>





<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Solvency</span>


<span class="Underline">**NASA’s architecture is key to success and EML-2 waypoint significantly advances radio astronomy, earth science and space life sciences** </span>
<span class="Underline">**David** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2-10-</span><span class="Underline">**12**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Leonard David, SPACE.com’s Space Insider, has been reporting on the space industry for more than five decades. He is a winner of last year's National Space Club Press Award and a past editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines. He has written for SPACE.com since 1999. “ NASA Eyes Plan for Deep-Space Outpost Near the Moon” [[http://www.space.com/14518-nasa-moon-deep-space-station-astronauts.html]], NEH)</span>

NASA is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pressing forward on </span>… <span class="Underline">the surface of the moon. </span>




==2ac== 


===2ac - ozone da=== 


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Space launches don’t disrupt the ozone</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">NASA 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NASA, 2-24-2008, Federal Government agency dedicated to space policy, “Space Shuttle and International Space Station,” NASA Kennedy Space Center Frequently Asked Questions, http://www.nasa.gov/centers/kennedy/about/information/shuttle_faq.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Q. </span><span class="Underline">Is it true that … </span>global impact would be inconsequential<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Alt cause - Space tourism</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Minard 9 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Geographic</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anne Minard, National Geographic Researcher, 4-14-2009, “Rocket Launches Damage Ozone Layer, Study Says,” National Geographic News, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2009/04/090414-rockets-ozone.html</span>
<span class="Underline">Increased international space launches and </span>… of Earth's depleted ozone layer<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



===2ac - heg bad=== 


**Even if heg collapse is inevitable, maintaining primacy preserves international stability in the short-term.**
**Kagan, 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe -- Brookings Institution, 1-17-12, “Not Fade Away: Against the Myth of American Decline,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2012/0117_us_power_kagan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But there is a danger. It … </span>__of the world they live in.__




===2ac - t preexist=== 


**Increase doesn’t require pre-existence**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Reinhardt, 05</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – U.S. Judge for the UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT (Stephen, JASON RAY REYNOLDS; MATTHEW RAUSCH, Plaintiffs-Appellants, v. HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.; HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY, Defendants-Appellees., lexis)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">Specifically, we must decide whether … </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">individual has previously been charged</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Substantially means to a large degree**
**Words and Phrases, 2** (Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “Substantially,” Volume 40B, p. 324-330 October 2002, Thomson West)
N.D.Ill. 2002. Under ADA, “__substantially”__ … __considerable, or to a large degree__.


===2ac - un cp=== 

b. critical path redundancy is good – creates more sustainable cooperation
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is unlikely that the … </span>__spaceflight activities of that nation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The CP crushes heg -**
**Dinerman, 9 -** <span style="color: #222222;">senior editor at the</span> //…// , 4/27, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1358/1

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The group is … think about this</span>

**Massive delays, gridlock and implementation problems in UN space policy – means it says no**
**Hitchens, 10 -** director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies (Theresa, Space and Defense, “Multilateralism in Space: Opportunities and Challenges for Achieving Space Security,” Summer 2010, http://www.unidir.ch/unidir-views/pdf/pdf-uv-30-33.pdf

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As noted above … </span>**__been no agreement to proceed__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**UN space multilateralism fails – no other country will cooperate**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pedersen, 93 -** </span>Research Professor of International Affairs at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service (Kenneth, “Is it time to create a World Space Agency?,” Space Policy, May, Science Direct) **WSA = World Space Agency, Pedersen assumes it is run by the UN**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, while </span>__the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> __guarantee reliable funding__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Global multilateralism is impossible**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Khanna, 10** – senior research fellow at the New America Foundation (Parag, “How’s That New World Order Working Out?,” Foreign Policy, December, </span>[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/29/hows_that_new_world_order_working_out]]

<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 8pt;">Bush Sr. chose to give the … rather than the top down.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===2ac - race k=== 



**Util**
<span class="tagChar">Harries, 94</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Editor @ The National Interest</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Owen, Power and Civilization, The National Interest, Spring, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Performance is the test. Asked … always have to be considered.</span>


**Their epistemology is flawed and causes the alt to fail**
<span class="cite">Andersen 3</span> – Margaret L. Andersen, Professor of Sociology and Women's Studies and Vice Provost for Academic Affairs at the University of Delaware, 2003, “Whitewashing Race: A Critical Perspective on Whiteness,” in White Out:

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Continuing Significance of Racism, ed Doane & Bonilla-Silva, p. 28</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conceptually, </span><span class="underline0">one of the major </span>… ends up meaning hardly anything<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**White supremacy isn’t a monolithic root cause---proximate causes determined through empirics are more likely---and their arg shuts off productive debate over solutions**

**Shelby 7** – Tommie Shelby, Professor of African and African American Studies and of Philosophy at Harvard, 2007, We Who Are Dark: The Philosophical Foundations of Black Solidarity

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Others might challenge the … federal funding for higher education).</span>


**Even if they win we don’t get fiat, talking about asteroids in high school solves the impact**
<span class="Underline">**Boyle 11-16** Alan Boyle. As MSNBC.com's science editor, Alan Boyle runs a virtual curiosity shop of the physical sciences and space exploration, plus paleontology, archaeology and other ologies that strike his fancy. Since joining MSNBC.com in 1996, Boyle has won awards from the National Academies, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the National Association of Science Writers, the Society of Professional Journalists, the Space Frontier Foundation, the Pirelli Relativity Challenge and the CMU Cybersecurity Journalism Awards program. (Alan Boyle, 11-16, “Asteroid debate rises to next level”, [[http://cosmiclog.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2011/11/16/8845471-asteroid-debate-rises-to-next-level]]) RP</span>

<span class="Underline">Education effort needed</span>
<span class="Underline">**The long-term scenario would …** to address the asteroid issue. </span>


**Asteroid advocacy is key to alerting policymakers to the danger of NEAs**
**Morrison et al. 2002** - NASA Astrobiology Institute (… )
__It is only … and governmental response.__





===2ac - india elections da=== 

**No impact to econ**
**Bennett and Norstrom 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> D. Scott Bennett and Timothy Nordstrom, February 2k. Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State. “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, Ebsco.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this analysis, </span>__we focus …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">account for substitutability between them.</span>















=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Plan= 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of the Euclid program.** 



=Adv. 1: ESA-NASA coop= 

**Exomars withdrawal is wrecking ESA-NASA cooperation – new flagship programs are critical**
<span class="Underline">**Morring and Svitak 2-17**-12, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frank Morring Jr. and Amy Svitak are reporters for Aviation Week, “NASA Leadership In Space Exploration Shaken” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story.jsp?channel=awst&id=news/awst/2012/02/20/AW_02_20_2012_p33-426085.xml&headline=NASA%20Leadership%20In%20Space%20Exploration%20Shaken&next=0]], NEH)</span>

NASA faces a loss of confidence … to agree on a barter arrangement.

<span class="Underline">**Brink is now – NASA must commit to Euclid by May or else cooperation will collapse. It’s key to astronomy and astrophysics**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Leone 12**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dan Leone, reporter for space news, “ ESA Official Says NASA Decision on Euclid Needed Before May” 1-20-12, [[http://www.spacenews.com/civil/120120-esa-official-nasa-decision-euclid.html]], NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>If NASA wants to … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Infrared Survey Telescope, or WFIRST. </span>

**And Euclid commitment is key to boosting ESA-NASA cooperation – sharing dark matter information**
**NRC 12**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Research Council, The National Research Council was organized by the National Academy of Sciences in 1916 to associate the broad community of science and technology with the Academy’s purposes of furthering knowledge and advising the federal government. Functioning in accordance with general policies determined by the Academy, the Council has become the principal operating agency of both the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering in providing services to the government, the public, and the scientific and engineering communities. The Council is administered jointly by both Academies and the Institute of Medicine. Dr. Ralph J. Cicerone and Dr. Charles M. Vest are chair and vice chair, respectively, of the National Research Council. “Assessment of a Plan for U.S. Participation in Euclid”, Committee on the Assessment of a Plan for U.S. Participation in Euclid Space Studies Board Board on Physics and Astronomy Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences , PDF, NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1 Background </span>__The 2010 Astronomy and …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a Plan for U.S. Participation in Euclid </span>4



<span class="Underline">**Sustained NASA-ESA cooperation key to overall relations and all global and space security problems**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jankowitsch 10****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Peter, Member of the European Space Policy Institute Advisory Council, “ Towards a New Era in Transatlantic Cooperation” European Space Insitute, July 2010, ESPA Perspectives 36 [[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=124688]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From a historical perspective, the </span>cooperation … to terms<span class="Underline"> with these challenges. </span>

**1. Space debris will destroy early warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war** 
**Lewis, 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy (Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>) // DCM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of … nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>


**Immediate extinction**
**Helfand and Pastore 2009** [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.
March 31, 2009, <span class="vitstoryheadline">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian President … in 1995 remains in place today. </span>

**2. US-European relations solve a global war.**
**O’Sullivan** **4**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John O'Sullivan, editor of The National Interest, March 2004,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">www.inthenationalinterest.com/Articles/Vol3Issue13/Vol3Issue13OSullivanPFV.html</span>
The report's starting point -- that U__.S.-…__ __great powers that led to 1914__.

**That goes nuclear.** 
**Shakhnazarov 97**
Georgi Shakhnazarov, chairman of the Soviet Academy of Political Science in 1974, presidential adviser in 1990, when Gorbachev assumed the presidency, October 27, 1997, The Daily Yomiuri

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the year 2010, Korea has … nations involved represent different civilizations.</span>

3. **Space cooperation is key to weather monitoring that allows for climate change adaptation** 
**Friedman** **11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Former 30 year Executive Director … 3, 2011, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1751/1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space offers much more than … </span>__political cooperation in the former.__

**Global warming causes extinction -- scientific consensus that it’s real and anthropogenic.** 
**Morgan, 2009** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]</span>

__As horrifying as the scenario … **against our chances of survival**?__

=Adv 2. Dark Matter= 



**NASA Euclid contribution is critical to dark energy and astronomy research – it’s our NIR sensors**
**NRC 12**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Research Council, The National Research Council was organized by the National Academy of Sciences in 1916 to associate the broad community of science and technology with the Academy’s purposes of furthering knowledge and advising the federal government. Functioning in accordance with general policies determined by the Academy, the Council has become the principal operating agency of both the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering in providing services to the government, the public, and the scientific and engineering communities. The Council is administered jointly by both Academies and the Institute of Medicine. Dr. Ralph J. Cicerone and Dr. Charles M. Vest are chair and vice chair, respectively, of the National Research Council. “Assessment of a Plan for U.S. Participation in Euclid”, Committee on the Assessment of a Plan for U.S. Participation in Euclid Space Studies Board Board on Physics and Astronomy Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences , PDF, NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2 Findings THE PROPOSED EUCLID … the Atacama Large Millimeter Array. </span>

**NASA key to solvency**
**NRC 12**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Research Council, The National Research Council was organized by the National Academy of Sciences in 1916 to associate the broad community of science and technology with the Academy’s purposes of furthering knowledge and advising the federal government. Functioning in accordance with general policies determined by the Academy, the Council has become the principal operating agency of both the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering in providing services to the government, the public, and the scientific and engineering communities. The Council is administered jointly by both Academies and the Institute of Medicine. Dr. Ralph J. Cicerone and Dr. Charles M. Vest are chair and vice chair, respectively, of the National Research Council. “Assessment of a Plan for U.S. Participation in Euclid”, Committee on the Assessment of a Plan for U.S. Participation in Euclid Space Studies Board Board on Physics and Astronomy Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences , PDF, NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finding: </span>**__Previous NASA and ESA …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">these data with other surveys.48 </span>

**2 impacts**
**First, dark matter research is key to non-proliferation – increases Neutrino detector sensitivity**
**Acosta-Kane et. al., ‘7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Professor of Physics @ Princeton University, “Discovery of underground argon with low level of radioactive 39Ar and possible applications to WIMP dark matter detectors,” 12-3, http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/arxiv/pdf/0712/0712.0381v1.pdf]</span>

__The existence of dark matter … neutron detectors for port security.__


**Increasing the sensitivity of our neutrino detectors is key to enforce the CTBT – solves proliferation.**
**Bahcall et. al. 01** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(3/16/01, John, PhD in Physics from Harvard University, School of Natural Sciences, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton American astrophysicist, best known for his contributions to the solar neutrino problem, the development of the Hubble Space Telescope and for his leadership and development of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, “Underground Science,” DUSEL Laboratory, http://www.int.washington.edu/DUSEL/SupplementaryInfo.pdf)</span>

__The field of underground particle … **nuclear proliferation around the world.**__ 



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Proliferation will be rapid and escalate – kills stability – multiple reasons. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Horowitz ‘9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[April, Michael, Department of Political Science, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons,” journal of conflict resolution, vol 53, no 2]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Learning as states gain experience … </span><span class="underline0">the preferences of the adopter.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We’re at a tipping point. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perry & Schlesinger ‘9 </span>[<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William J., Chairman, United States Institute of Peace, James R., Vice-Chair, “America’s Strategic Posture,” http://www.usip.org/files/file/strat_posture_report_adv_copy.pdf]</span>
There is no greater global … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">public education on these issues. </span>


**Any nuclear use culminates in extinction**
**Robock 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alan, Professor of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University, editor of //Reviews of Geophysics//, PhD from MIT in meteorology and fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, “Nuclear Winter”, May, Wiley Periodicals)</span>
__Nuclear winter is the term … the world of nuclear weapons.__


**Second impact** 
**Euclid dark matter research is key to finding habitable exoplanets – complements Kepler**
**Beaulieu et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">J.P. Beaulieu won "prix Louis Arman" from the French "Academie des Sciences (really big award), ,D.P. Bennett 4;3 , V Batista 1;3 , A Cassan 1;3 , D. Kubas 1;3 , P. Fouque 5;3 , E. Kerrins 6 , S. Mao 6 , J. Miralda-Escude 7 , J. Wambsganss 8 , B.S. Gaudi 9 , A. Gould 9;3 and S. Dong 1, “ EUCLID : Dark Universe Probe and Microlensing planet Hunter” 1-19-10, [[http://arxiv.org/pdf/1001.3349v1.pdf]], NEH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Abstract. </span>__There is a remarkable synergy … , habitable, frozen to free oating.__ 

**Finding ExoPlanets is key to space colonization**
**Harrold, 08** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's … </span>__they would not support life__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>


**Outweighs every other impact**
**Bostrom ’03** (Nick, Research Fellow and professor of philosophy at Oxford, “Astronomical Waste”, Utilitas, Vol. 15, No. 3, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html/)

__From a utilitarian perspective, this huge … that level of utilitarian payoff.__










=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]