=Bronx Science Novices= 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">This page was solely created for the Woodward tournament</span>

***Please note: As of right now, Bronx Science is only sending //two// novice teams. On this page are a list of arguments (with full text cites!) that our novices often go for. Please note that there are different variations of the 1AC that both teams run (their 1ACs vary by round) but we have disclosed what has been read before/is being read.**

**- Lucy and Dale**

\[[toc]]
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Send any questions or requests to either:**</span>
Lucy Shen - shenl@bxscience.edu (Aff cites)
or Dale Li - dalel4612@gmail.com (Neg cites)


=Affirmative= 
==NIB 1AC== 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>== 
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Infrastructure investment is declining in the status quo</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nutting, 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">--- MarketWatch's international commentary editor (6/1/2012, Rex, “Investments in the future have dried up; Commentary: Infrastructure spending down 20% since recession began,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/investments-in-the-future-have-dried-up-2012-06-01]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">) // LShen</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) – When I was growing up in the 1960s and 1970s, the legacy of the Great Depression was everywhere: Dams, bridges, roads, airports, courthouses and even picnic areas and hiking trails. Leaders of that dire time — Democrats and Republicans — took advantage of the Depression to put millions of Americans back to work, building the infrastructure that we still rely on today.¶ They had lemons, and they made lemonade.¶ This time, however, we’re not so fortunate. Instead of picking up the shovel and getting to work, we’ve thrown the shovel aside, complaining that we just can’t afford to repair what Hoover, FDR, Eisenhower, and LBJ built, much less invest in the infrastructure than our grandchildren will need.¶ The fact is, we’re investing less than we were before the recession hit more than four years ago, not just in government money but in private money, as well.¶ Here are the facts, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis: Government investments (in structures and in equipment) ramped up between 2007 and 2010, only to fall back to 2005 levels by early 2012. The trajectory for private-sector investments was the opposite — a collapse followed by a modest rebound — but they arrived in the same place: back at 2005 levels, some 6% lower than when the recession began.¶ Looking just at investments in structures (such as buildings, roads, mines, utilities and factories), private companies are investing no more today (in inflation-adjusted terms) than they were in late 1978, according to data from the BEA.¶ All together, public- and private-sector investments in structures are down about 20% compared with 2007, in inflation-adjusted terms. In 2007, we spent $684 billion on structures; in 2011, we spent $550 billion.¶ Even before the recession arrived, we were underinvesting. Investments in infrastructure as a share of the economy had declined by 20% compared with 1960, according to a study by the Congressional Research Service. One widely cited estimate from civil engineers put the infrastructure gap at more than $2 trillion.¶ When Barack Obama was campaigning in 2008, he suggested a massive increase in public works projects. He pointed to the large number of unemployed people (especially trained construction workers). He called attention to the great need to repair our crumbling schools, roads and bridges, and to the opportunity to build the foundation for an economy that could compete in the next century. And he noted the very low borrowing costs the government would pay to make these investments.¶ It was a no-brainer to build schools and hospitals, and to invest in transportation, energy and communications networks, and to spend more on research into the technologies of the future. We had the resources, and we had the needs.¶ The only thing we lacked was the will to do it.¶ </span>
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure via a National Infrastructure Bank.</span>==== 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is the Economy</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1 is stimulus </span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Public investments in infrastructure leads to an economic recovery - leads to private investment and economic growth</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Stiglitz 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(University Professor at Columbia University, and a Nobel laureate in Economics) 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(Joseph E. Stiglitz, “Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit”, The Economists’ Voice Journal, March 2012) </span>
Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall between actual and potential unemployment is huge and that monetary policy has proven ineffective, at least in restoring the economy to anything near full employment. Under these circumstances, the traditional economists’ solution has been to advocate the use of fiscal policy—tax cuts and/or spending increases. There is an especially compelling case for increasing public investments because they would increase GDP and employment today as well as increase output in the future. Given low interest rates, the enhanced growth in GDP would more than offset the increased cost of government spending, reducing national debt in the medium term. Moreover, the ratio of debt to GDP would decrease and the ability of the U.S. economy to sustain debt (debt sustainability) would improve. This happy state of affairs is especially likely given the ample supply of high-return investment opportunities in infrastructure, technology, and education resulting from underinvestment in these areas over the past quarter century. Moreover, well-designed public investments would raise the return on private investments, “crowding in” this additional source of spending. Together, increased public and private investment would raise output and employment in the short run, and increase growth and debt sustainability in the medium and long run. Such spending would reduce (not increase) the ratio of debt to GDP. Thus, the objection that the U.S. should not engage in such fiscal policies because of the high ratio of debt to GDP is simply wrong; even those who suffer from deficit fetishism should support such measures. Critics of this standard Keynesian prescription raise two objections: (a) government is not likely to spend the money on high return investments, so that the promised gains will prove elusive and (b) the fiscal multipliers are small (perhaps negative), suggesting that the shortrun gains from fiscal policy are minimal at best. Both of these objections are easily dismissed in the current economic environment. First, the assertion that government is incapable of making high return investments is just wrong. Studies of the average returns on government spending on investments in technology show extraordinarily high returns, with returns on investments in infrastructure and education returns well above the cost of borrowing. Thus, from a national point of view, investments in these areas make sense, even if the government fails to make the investments with the absolute highest returns. Second, the many variants of the argument that the fiscal multiplier is small typically rest on the assumption that as government spending increases, some category of private expenditure will decline to offset this increase. 1 Certainly, when the economy is at full employment and capital is being fully utilized, GDP cannot increase. Hence, under the circumstances, the multiplier must be zero. But today’s economic conditions of significant and persistent resource underutilization have not been experienced since the Great Depression. As a result, it is simply meaningless to rely on empirical estimates of multipliers based on post-World War II data. Contractionary monetary policy is another reason why multipliers may be markedly larger now than they were in some earlier situations of excess capacity. In these cases, monetary authorities, excessively fearful of inflation, responded to deficit spending by raising interest rates and constraining credit availability, thus dampening private spending. But such an outcome is not inevitable; it is a result of policies, often guided by mistaken economic theories. In any case, such an outcome is irrelevant today. This is because the Federal Reserve is committed to an unprecedented policy of maintaining near-zero interest rates through at least the end of 2014, while at the same time encouraging government spending. With interest rates at record lows and the Federal Reserve committed to keeping them there, crowding out of private investment simply will not occur. On the contrary, as I have noted, public investment— for instance, in better infrastructure—is more likely to increase the returns to private investment. Such public spending crowds in private investment, increasing the multiplier. Sometimes economists claim that consumers, worried about future tax liabilities in the wake of government spending, would contract their spending. However, the applicability of this notion (referred to as Ricardian equivalence) is contradicted by the fact that when George W. Bush lowered taxes and massively increased the deficit, savings plummeted to zero. But even if one believed in the applicability of Ricardian equivalence in today’s economy, government spending on investments that increase future growth and improve the debt-toGDP ratio would induce rational to spend more today. Consumption would also be crowded in by such government expenditures, not crowded out. Indeed, if consumers had rational expectations, the multiplier would increase even more in a long-lived downturn like the current one. The reason is that some of the money that is saved this year will be spent next year, or the year after, or the year after that—periods in which the economy is still well-below capacity. This increased spending will lead to higher employment and incomes in these later years. But if individuals are rational, the realization that their future incomes will be higher will lead them to spend more today. Deficit spending today crowds in not just investment, but also consumption. Thus, a careful look at the current situation suggests that the impact of well-designed government programs will be to stimulate the economy more than is assumed to be the case in standard Keynesian models (which typically assume a short-lived downturn and yield a short run fiscal multiplier of around 1.5). Even in the current period, fiscal policy results in greater output increases because investment and consumption is crowded in, because: (a) the Federal Reserve is unlikely either to increase interest rates or reduce credit availability; (b) public investments are likely to increase the returns to private investments; and (c) rational consumers/ taxpayers may recognize that future tax liabilities will decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NIB boosts employment and jumpstarts immediate growth</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Zakaria 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">-PhD in Political Science @ Harvard (6/13/2011, Fareed, “Zakaria: U.S. needs an infrastructure bank,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/06/13/zakaria-u-s-needs-an-infrastructure-bank/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
President Obama has proposed a number of specific policies to tackle the jobs crisis, but they have gone nowhere because Republicans say that their top concern is the deficit and debt. Those of us worried about the debt - and I would strongly include myself - need to remember that if unemployment doesn't go down fast, the deficit is going to get much worse. If you're serious about deficit reduction, the single most important factor that will shrink it is to have more people working and paying taxes. I want to focus on one of Obama's proposals because it actually would add very little to the deficit, it has some Republican supporters and it would have an immediate effect on boosting employment and growth. Plus, it's good for the country anyway. We need a national infrastructure bank to repair and rebuild America's crumbling infrastructure. The House Majority Leader, Eric Cantor, has played down this proposal as just more stimulus, but if Republicans set aside ideology, they would actually see that this is an opportunity to push for two of their favorite ideas - privatization and the elimination of earmarks. That's why Republicans like Kay Bailey Hutchison and Chuck Hagel are strongly in favor of such a bank. The United States builds its infrastructure in a remarkably socialist manner. The government funds bills and operates almost all American infrastructure. Now, in many countries in Europe and Asia the private sector plays a much larger role in financing and operating roads, highways, railroads, airports and other public resources. An infrastructure bank would create a mechanism by which you could have private sector participation. Yes, there would be some public money involved, though mostly through issuing bonds. And with interest rates at historic lows, this is the time to use those low interest rates to borrow money and rebuild America's infrastructure. Such projects have huge long-term payoffs and can genuinely be thought of as investments, not expenditures. A national infrastructure bank would also address a legitimate complaint of the Tea Party - earmark spending. One of the reasons federal spending has been inefficient is that Congress wants to spread the money around in ways that might make political sense but are economic nonsense. An infrastructure bank would make those decisions using cost-benefit analysis in a meritocratic system rather than spreading the wealth around and basing these decisions on patronage, politics and whimsy. Let's face it, America's infrastructure is in a shambles. Just a decade ago, we ranked sixth in infrastructure in the world according to the World Economic Forum. Today we rank 23rd and dropping. We will not be able to compete with the nations of the world if we cannot fix this problem. Is it too much to ask that Republicans and Democrats find a way to come together on this? That moment of bipartisanship might actually be the biggest payoff of all.
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jobs are critical to revitalizing the economy</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Tyson 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">-Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, BA Summa Cum Laude in Economics @ Smith College, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council [Laura, The Washington Post, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” 9/18/2011)</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html,0]]</span>
The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. economy is the jobs deficit, not the budget deficit. Nearly 14 million Americans are unemployed, another 8.4 million are working part time because they cannot find full-time jobs, and yet another 2.8 million want a job and are available to work but have given up an active search. At 64 percent, the labor force participation rate is lower than it has been in nearly three decades. The magnitude of this jobs crisis we’re in is best measured by the jobs gap—the number of jobs the U.S. economy needs to add in order to return to its pre 2008-2009 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html|employment]]</span> level and absorb new entrants to the work force since then. The jobs gap at the end of August was more than 12 million jobs. Even at double the rate of employment growth realized during the last year, it would take more than 12 years for the U.S. economy to close this gap. The U.S. labor market, long admired for its flexibility and strength, is badly broken. Most American jobs are in the private sector, and private sector jobs have in fact been growing for 17 consecutive months; indeed, the private sector added about 1.8 million nonfarm <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html|payroll]]</span> jobs during the last year. This pace of job creation is faster than during the previous recovery in the early 2000s and in line with the recovery of the early 1990s. But there’s one major problem: Private-sector job losses were more than twice as large in the recent recession as in the previous two, and job growth has fallen far short of what is necessary to offset these losses. In addition, public-sector employment has been declining in this recovery—this in contrast to other postwar recovery periods, in which such employment has increased. We’ve lost 550,000 public-sector positions in the last year alone, making the jobs crisis even more severe. Since the private sector creates (and eliminates) most jobs in the United States, and since budget constraints will likely mean more painful cuts in public-sector employment for the foreseeable future, Americans are understandably looking to business for solutions to the jobs crisis. To uncover the business solutions that could work, however, we first must acknowledge the fundamental cause of the problem: the dramatic collapse in aggregate demand that began with the 2008 financial crisis and that triggered huge job losses. Even with unprecedented amounts of monetary and fiscal stimulus, the recovery has been weak because consumers have curbed their spending, increased their saving and started to reduce their personal debt. And they still have a long way to go. Business <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html|surveys]]</span> confirm that for both large and small companies, the primary constraint on job growth is weak demand, not regulation or taxation. In the apt words of a small business owner, “If you don’t have the demand, you don’t hire the people.” So what can the business community do to boost demand and job creation? It can convince Congress to establish a National Infrastructure Bank and pass a multi-year surface transportation bill to boost infrastructure <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html|investment]]</span>. And while it’s at it, business can work with the Obama administration to reduce multi-year delays in the approval of infrastructure projects that would otherwise create tens of thousands of good-paying jobs in the next few years.
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline leads to war</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (see also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Feaver, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner. 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult [end page 213] to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. “Diversionary theory" suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995). and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. [end page 214] Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US economy is key to the world economy</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Caploe 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">—Ph.D., International Political Economy, Princeton University, M.A., Politics, Princeton University, Honors A.B., Social Theory, Harvard University (David, Focus still on America to lead global recovery, 7 April 2009, http://www.straitstimes.com/vgn-ext-templating/v/index.jsp?vgnextoid=908c318314c70210VgnVCM100000430a0a0aRCRD&vgnextchannel=0162758920e39010VgnVCM1000000a35010aRCRD, )</span>
IN THE aftermath of the G-20 summit, most observers seem to have missed perhaps the most crucial statement of the entire event, made by United States President Barack Obama at his pre-conference meeting with British Prime Minister Gordon Brown: 'The world has become accustomed to the US being a voracious consumer market, the engine that drives a lot of economic growth worldwide,' he said. 'If there is going to be renewed growth, it just can't be the US as the engine.' While superficially sensible, this view is deeply problematic. To begin with, it ignores the fact that the global economy has in fact been 'America-centred' for more than 60 years. Countries - China, Japan, Canada, Brazil, Korea, Mexico and so on - either sell to the US or they sell to countries that sell to the US. This system has generally been advantageous for all concerned. America gained certain historically unprecedented benefits, but the system also enabled participating countries - first in Western Europe and Japan, and later, many in the Third World - to achieve undreamt-of prosperity. At the same time, this deep inter-connection between the US and the rest of the world also explains how the collapse of a relatively small sector of the US economy - 'sub-prime' housing, logarithmically exponentialised by Wall Street's ingenious chicanery - has cascaded into the worst global economic crisis since the Great Depression. To put it simply, Mr Obama doesn't seem to understand that there is no other engine for the world economy - and hasn't been for the last six decades. If the US does not drive global economic growth, growth is not going to happen. Thus, US policies to deal with the current crisis are critical not just domestically, but also to the entire world. Consequently, it is a matter of global concern that the Obama administration seems to be following Japan's 'model' from the 1990s: allowing major banks to avoid declaring massive losses openly and transparently, and so perpetuating 'zombie' banks - technically alive but in reality dead. As analysts like Nobel laureates Joseph Stiglitz and Paul Krugman have pointed out, the administration's unwillingness to confront US banks is the main reason why they are continuing their increasingly inexplicable credit freeze, thus ravaging the American and global economies. Team Obama seems reluctant to acknowledge the extent to which its policies at home are failing not just there but around the world as well. Which raises the question: If the US can't or won't or doesn't want to be the global economic engine, which country will? The obvious answer is China. But that is unrealistic for three reasons. # First, China's economic health is more tied to America's than practically any other country in the world. Indeed, the reason China has so many dollars to invest everywhere - whether in US Treasury bonds or in Africa - is precisely that it has structured its own economy to complement America's. The only way China can serve as the engine of the global economy is if the US starts pulling it first. # Second, the US-centred system began at a time when its domestic demand far outstripped that of the rest of the world. The fundamental source of its economic power is its ability to act as the global consumer of last resort. China, however, is a poor country, with low per capita income, even though it will soon pass Japan as the world's second largest economy. There are real possibilities for growth in China's domestic demand. But given its structure as an export-oriented economy, it is doubtful if even a successful Chinese stimulus plan can pull the rest of the world along unless and until China can start selling again to the US on a massive scale. # Finally, the key 'system' issue for China - or for the European Union - in thinking about becoming the engine of the world economy - is monetary: What are the implications of having your domestic currency become the global reserve currency? This is an extremely complex issue that the US has struggled with, not always successfully, from 1959 to the present. Without going into detail, it can safely be said that though having the US dollar as the world's medium of exchange has given the US some tremendous advantages, it has also created huge problems, both for America and the global economic system. The Chinese leadership is certainly familiar with this history. It will try to avoid the yuan becoming an international medium of exchange until it feels much more confident in its ability to handle the manifold currency problems that the US has grappled with for decades. Given all this, the US will remain the engine of global economic recovery for the foreseeable future, even though other countries must certainly help. This crisis began in the US - and it is going to have to be solved there too.
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2 is Fiscal Discipline</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Declining transportation infrastructure is undermining the __foundation__ of the U.S. economy </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Donohue, 11 (President and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Factiva)</span>
As Obama and Congress talk jobs, here's an appeal from the US Chamber of Commerce: Invest heavily in roads, air transport, and other infrastructure. The economy and jobs depend on it. Adopt innovative financing, including an infrastructure bank to leverage private investment. Throughout America's history, feats in infrastructure, like the Interstate Highway System, have not only been symbols of national achievement but also conduits for commerce and keys to prosperity. Today, however, much of this foundation of the US economy is costly, cracked, and crumbling. Roads, rail, airports, and harbors need continual investment to keep pace with demand. Recent research by the US Chamber of Commerce discovered that underperforming transport infrastructure cost the US economy nearly $2 trillion in lost gross domestic product in 2008 and 2009. The chamber's Transportation Performance Index showed that America's transit system is not keeping up with growing demands and is failing to meet the needs of the business community and consumers. Most important, the research proved for the first time that there is a direct relationship between transportation infrastructure performance and GDP. The index findings also showed that if America invests wisely in infrastructure, it can become more reliable, predictable, and safe. By improving underperforming transport infrastructure, the United States could unlock nearly $1 trillion in economic potential. Making investments that tackle immediate challenges, like congestion, and that account for growing demand into the future, America would boost productivity and economic growth in the long run and support millions of jobs in the near term. Investment in infrastructure would also improve quality of life by reducing highway fatalities and accidents and easing traffic congestion that costs the public $115 billion a year in lost time and wasted fuel - $808 out of the pocket of every motorist. Such an investment would also allow the country to better protect the environment while increasing mobility. If America fails to adequately invest in transportation infrastructure, by 2020 it will lose $897 billion in economic growth. Businesses will see their transportation costs rise by $430 billion, and the average American household income will drop by more than $7,000. US exports will decline by $28 billion. Meanwhile, global competitors will surge past us with superior infrastructure that will attract jobs, businesses, and capital. So how can the US get its infrastructure to go from insufficient and declining to safe, competitive, and productive? An obvious place to start is for Congress to pass core bills for surface transportation, aviation, and water programs - at current funding levels. Congress must move forward with multiyear reauthorizations to restore the nation's highways; modernize air traffic control and improve airports; and maintain American ports, harbors, dams, and levees.Doing so would enable communities to plan projects, hire employees, and prevent devastating layoffs of existing workers. Reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration alone would help keep 70,000 workers on the job. Next, America should expand energy infrastructure to support growing needs. A great example is the Keystone XL pipeline to connect Canadian oil sands with Texas refineries. The sooner the project is approved and construction begins, the sooner the US can rake in the benefits of added investment and government revenues, job creation, and more resources to fuel energy needs and keep costs down for businesses and consumers. Likewise, the US can't let a needlessly cumbersome permitting process stand in the way of infrastructure development. The administration should limit environmental reviews to six months and forgo reviews when no significant environmental impact is expected. Duplicative reviews by state and federal governments should be prevented and, when multiple agencies are involved, a lead agency should be appointed to coordinate actions and move things along. Accelerating the permitting process would quickly mobilize construction and hiring from one end of the country to the other. In this era of tight government budgets, America must adopt innovative financing approaches and spur on public-private partnerships. A national infrastructure bank must be a part of a long-term investment strategy. An initial government investment of $10 billion could leverage up to $600 billion in private funds.But regulatory impediments must also be removed. They take an estimated $250 billion in global capital out of play. If that private capital were invested in infrastructure projects, it could create 1.9 million jobs over 10 years and spur untold economic growth. As for public investments, sooner or later we'll have to face the fact that the federal fuel tax has not been raised 1 cent in 17 years. The country needs modest, phased-in increase. Comprehensively restoring America's infrastructure and revitalizing the economy are monumental tasks. Fortunately, we are the same nation that built our world-class system in the first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are.
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Uncertainty holds back federal infrastructure projects – NIB solves</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Tyson et al. 10-* Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council, **Phillips, former President of Oracle, MBA @ Hampton University, member of the Economic Recovery Advisory Board,** *Wolf, CEO and Chairman of UBS Americas, member of the Economic Recovery Advisor Board, BS in Economics @ Wharton [Laura, Charles, Robert, The Wall Street Journal, “The U.S. Needs and Infrastructure Bank,” January 15, 2010, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704586504574654682516084584.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>
We believe that the NIB should be structured as a wholly owned government entity to keep borrowing costs low, align its interests with the public's, and avoid the conflicting incentives of quasi-government agencies. We also recommend that the NIB be run by a government-appointed board of professionals with the requisite expertise to evaluate complex projects based on objective cost-benefit analysis. Today, projects are subject to the uncertainties of the opaque congressional appropriations process, which is how we end up with proverbial and actual bridges to nowhere. The private sector raised over $100 billion in dedicated infrastructure funds in recent years, but most of that money is being spent on infrastructure projects outside the U.S. The NIB could attract private funds to co-invest in projects that pass rigorous cost-benefit tests, and that generate revenues through user fees or revenue guarantees from state and local governments. Investors could choose which projects meet their investment criteria, and, in return, share in project risks that today fall solely on taxpayers. The NIB would not only help the nation meet the infrastructure needs of the future, it would also support the economy's recovery over time. According to a study by Moody's Economy.com, an increase in infrastructure spending of $1 increases GDP by about $1.59. This spending creates real jobs, particularly in the construction industry, which accounted for about a quarter of the nation's total job losses last year and shed another 53,000 jobs in December alone. Construction could face years of anemic growth, and the NIB could help boost this sector. We are not advocating make-work projects, but wiser and timelier investment in sorely needed projects of national significance. President Obama has proposed $25 billion in federal funding for a national infrastructure bank in his 2010 budget. Whatever the amount of initial funding, we think it's important to establish the bank now and then justify its continued funding based on its performance and investment returns.
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Discretionary spending programs solve fiscal restraint</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kin 2008</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> (George, Edwin S. Cohen Distinguished Professor of Law and Taxation and Class of 1966 Research Professor, University of Virginia, “Temporary-Effect Legislation, Political Accountability, and Fiscal Restraint,” http://law.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1154&context=uvalwps&sei-redir=1&referer=http%3A%2F%2Fscholar.google.com%2Fscholar%3Fq%3Duse%2Bof%2B%2522temporary%2Blegislation%2522%2Bin%2Bpublic%2Btransportation%2Bfunding%26btnG%3D%26hl%3Den%26as_sdt%3D0%252C33#search=%22use%20temporary%20legislation%20public%20transportation%20funding%22)</span>
The privileged treatment in the legislative process of both mandatory spending programs and tax expenditures points to one change that might help to forestall the predicted fiscal meltdown. If increases in mandatory spending and tax expenditures were enacted in the same manner as discretionary spending, that is, as temporary-effect rather than permanent legislation, it would boost political accountability and might force the same type of fiscal restraint that has occurred in the case of discretionary spending.10 Like discretionary spending programs, the initial enactment of temporary-effect legislation is accounted for accurately in the legislative process. In addition, like discretionary spending programs, the cost of extending an expiring tax or entitlement program competes with and potentially crowds out the cost of new tax and spending initiatives.11 To be sure, any change in favor of temporary-effect legislation would only affect the shape and fate of new laws and would not help to reverse the unsustainable budgetary consequences of government programs already on the books.12 Still, given that the looming fiscal problem primarily results from permanent legislation enacted in the past,13 the change might at least help to restrain future legislative action that would exacerbate the problem. The significance of passing temporary-effect rather than permanent legislation to enhance fiscal restraint is widely misunderstood. In recent years, for example, many analysts have sharply criticized the enactment of laws with delayed effective dates and early termination dates, or “sunsets,” for their irresponsible budgetary impact. These critics have argued that Congressional budget accounting rules allowed the true cost of temporary-effect legislation, but not permanent legislation, to be misrepresented. This position is precisely the opposite of the one taken in this article.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is Solvency</span>__**</span></span>
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NIB results in more critical review processes to guarantee net profit, results in more private investment and enhances competitiveness that cannot be achieved by a state run bank</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Thomasson 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> (Testimony of Scott Thomasson Progressive Policy Institute—published October 12, 2011—congressional testimony—Scott Thomasson is the director of the Progressive Policy Institute’s economic and domestic policies—The PPI is a D.C. based think tank founded in 1989 that has a long legacy of promoting break-the-mold ideas relating to economic growth, national security and policy innovation.</span>
<span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/92300621/Congressional-Testimony-National-Infrastructure-Bank-Separating-Myths-from-Realities%20/|http://www.scribd.com/doc/92300621/Congressional-Testimony-National-Infrastructure-Bank-Separating-Myths-from-Realities /]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> LShen</span>
There are also advantages a national bank could offer to state infrastructure banks to expand their investment options and lower their borrowing costs. A national bank could assist states in financing large, expensive projects that are beyond the scale of state bank capitalization or lending power. A national bank would also be better able to evaluate and finance projects of regional and national significance—those that produce clear economic benefits to the country, but which otherwise wouldnot benefit any one state enough to justify bearing the cost alone. And a properly structured national bank would have much lower borrowing costs than state banks, particularly with U.S. Treasury ratesat historically low levels, as they are now. Those savings could be passed through to states by partnering with state banks to finance projects selected and preapproved by the states themselves. By improving the economics of such projects, the national bank would also make them more attractive to investors, making more private capital available to states to leverage scarce taxpayer dollars. In short, the approaches used so far to expand public investment tools and mobilize private capital for infrastructure financing have been positive steps for the country. But even with more money, they can not address all of our national investment needs, and they should not be thought of as substitutes for a national infrastructure bank, but rather as complementary partners to the bank. Misconceptions About the National Infrastructure Bank As the unavoidable costs of repairing and maintaining our nation’s infrastructure climb into thetrillions of dollars, the time has come for a clear-eyed look at how a national bank might be onepiece of a multi-pronged approach to making the investments we need. Doing that means we need toput aside polarizing rhetoric from both sides and talk frankly about what a national infrastructurebank is, and what it is not. The driving motivation behind the national infrastructure bank is twofold. First, the financing offered by the bank would provide an additional tool for reducing the costs of new projects and attracting private capital to share in the risks and expenses of these investments. The bank would be an optional tool available to states and local governments and for federally-sponsored projects likeNextGen Air Traffic Control. Second, the bank’s evaluation and financing of projects would be atransparent and predictable process, staffed by professional finance experts and guided by clearly defined, merit-based criteria. This would ensure that at least some portion of our public investment decisions would focus on projects that will generate economic benefits and enhance competitiveness at a national or regional level.
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A national bank will overcome failures endemic to the current system of funding transportation infrastructure --- lack of cooperation and insufficient resources make federal action necessary for __large-scale__ projects</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">McConaghy & Kessler, 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND **Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf)</span>
America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods, power, and ideas. Today, our infrastructure is far from meeting the challenge. Upgrading our existing infrastructure and building new conduits to generate commerce will put people to work quickly in long-term jobs and will create robust growth. Funding for new infrastructure will be a crucial investment with substantial future benefits, but the current way that Congress doles out infrastructure financing is too political and wasteful. A National Infrastructure Bank will provide a new way to harness public and private capital to bridge the infrastructure gap, create jobs, and ensure a successful and secure future. THE PROBLEM America’s investment in infrastructure is not sufficient to spur robust growth. In October, Governor Chris Christie announced his intention to terminate New Jersey’s participation in the Access to the Region’s Core (ARC) Tunnel project, citing cost overruns that threatened to add anywhere from $2-$5 billion to the tunnel’s almost $9 billion price tag. At the time, Christie stated, “Considering the unprecedented fiscal and economic climate our State is facing, it is completely unthinkable to borrow more money and leave taxpayers responsible for billions in cost overruns. The ARC project costs far more than New Jersey taxpayers can afford and the only prudent move is to end this project.”1 Despite the fact that the project is absolutely necessary for future economic growth in the New Jersey-New York region and would have created thousands of jobs, it was held captive to significant cost escalation, barriers to cooperation between local, state, and federal actors, and just plain politics. Sadly, these factors are increasingly endemic in the execution of major infrastructure projects. America’s infrastructure has fallen into a state of disrepair, and will be insufficient to meet future demands and foster competitive growth without significant new investment. However, the public is fed up with massive deficits and cost overruns, and increasingly consider deficit reduction to be a bigger economic priority than infrastructure investment.2 They have lost confidence in government’s ability to choose infrastructure projects wisely, complete them, and bring them in on budget. At the same time, traditional sources of funding are strained to the breaking point and federal support is hindered by an inefficient process for selecting projects. Finding the resources necessary to construct new infrastructure will be also be a significant challenge. A new of way of choosing and funding infrastructure projects— from roads, bridges, airports, rail, and seaports to broadband and power transmission upgrades—is necessary to ensure growth and create jobs in America. America’s infrastructure isn’t ready to meet future growth needs. The safety risks and economic costs associated with the deterioration of America’s infrastructure are increasingly apparent across multiple sectors. The American Society of Civil Engineers has awarded the nation’s overall infrastructure a grade of D.3 Since 1990, demand for electricity has increased by about 25% but construction of new transmission has decreased by 30%.4 Over about the last 25 years, the number of miles traveled by cars and trucks approximately doubled but America’s highway lane miles increased by only 4.4%.5 Over 25% of America’s bridges are de!cient6 and about 25% of its bus and rail assets are in marginal or poor condition.7 America’s broadband penetration rate ranks only 14th among OECD countries.8 As America’s population and economic activity increases, the stress on its infrastructure will only grow. The number of trucks operating daily on each mile of the Interstate Highway system is expected to jump from 10,500 to 22,700 by 2035,9 while freight volumes will have increased by 70% over 1998 levels.10 It is also expected that transit ridership will double by 2030 and that the number of commercial air passengers will increase by 36% from 2006 to 2015.11 Total electricity use is projected to increase by 1148 billion kWh from 2008 to 2035.12 In order to cope, America’s infrastructure will need a significant upgrade. America’s infrastructure deficit hurts its competitiveness and is a drain on the economy. America’s infrastructure gap poses a serious threat to our prosperity. In 2009, the amount of waste due to congestion equaled 4.8 billion hours (equivalent to 10 weeks worth of relaxation time for the average American) and 3.9 billion gallons of gasoline, costing $115 billion in lost fuel and productivity.13 Highway bottlenecks are estimated to cost freight trucks about $8 billion in economic costs per year,14 and in 2006, total logistics costs for American businesses increased to 10% of GDP.15 Flight delays cost Americans $9 billion in lost productivity each year,16 and power disruptions caused by an overloaded electrical grid cost between $25 billion and $180 billion annually.17 These losses sap wealth from our economy and drain resources that could otherwise fuel recovery and growth. The infrastructure gap also hinders America’s global competitiveness. Logistics costs for American business are on the rise, but similar costs in countries like Germany, Spain, and France are set to decrease.18 And while America’s infrastructure spending struggles to keep pace,19 several main global competitors are poised to make significant infrastructure enhancements. China leads the world with a projected $9 trillion in infrastructure investments slated for the next ten years, followed by India, Russia, and Brazil.20 In a recent survey, 90% of business executives around the world indicated that the quality and availability of infrastructure plays a key role in determining where they do business.21 If America is going to remain on strong economic footing compared to its competitors, it must address its infrastructure challenges. There are too many cost overruns and unnecessary projects—but not enough funds. Cost overruns on infrastructure projects are increasingly prevalent and exact real costs. One survey of projects around the world found that costs were underestimated for almost 90% of projects, and that cost escalation on transportation projects in North America was almost 25%.22 Boston’s Central Artery/Tunnel Project (a.k.a. the “Big Dig”) came in 275% over budget, adding $11 billion to the cost of the project. The construction of the Denver International Airport cost 200% more than anticipated. The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge retrofit project witnessed overruns of $2.5 billion—more than 100% of the original project cost— before construction even got underway.23 And of course, there are the “bridge to nowhere” earmarks that solve a political need, but not an economic one. The current system for funding projects is subject to inefficiency and bureaucratic complication. Funding for infrastructure improvements is divided unevenly among federal, state, local, and private actors based on sector.24 Even in instances where the federal government provides funding, it has often ceded or delegated project selection and oversight responsibilities to state, local, and other recipients, weakening linkages to federal program goals and efforts to ensure accountability.25 Federal efforts are also hampered by organization and funding allocations based strictly on specific types of transportation, as opposed to a system-wide approach, which create inefficiencies that hinder collaboration and effective investment.26 Complicating matters even further are the emergence of multi-state “megaregions,” which have common needs that require multijurisdictional planning and decision making ability.27 Infrastructure funding has also become significantly politicized. Congressional earmarking in multi-year transportation bills has skyrocketed from 10 projects in the STAA of 1982 to over 6,300 projects in the most recent bill (SAFETEA-LU).28 Even under a working system, the infrastructure improvements necessary to foster growth will require substantial investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that it would require $2.2 trillion over the next five years to bring our overall infrastructure up to par.29 However, sources of funding for infrastructure improvements are under significant strain and may not be sufficient.30 The Highway Trust Fund has already experienced serious solvency challenges, and inadequate revenues could lead to a $400 billion funding shortfall from 2010 to 2015.31 The finances of state and local governments, which are responsible for almost three-quarters of public infrastructure spending,32 have been severely impaired. At least 46 states have budget shortfalls in the current fiscal year, and it is likely that state financial woes will continue in the near future.33 In a recent survey by the National Association of Counties, 47% of respondents indicated more severe budget shortfalls than anticipated, 82% said that shortfalls will continue into the next year, and 54% reported delaying capital investments to cope.34 THE SOLUTION A National Infrastructure Bank In order to provide innovative, merit-based financing to meet America’s emerging infrastructure needs, Third Way supports the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank (NIB). The NIB would be a stand-alone entity capitalized with federal funds, and would be able to use those funds through loans, guarantees, and other financial tools to leverage private financing for projects. As such, the NIB would be poised to seize the opportunity presented by historically low borrowing costs in order to generate the greatest benefit for the lowest taxpayer cost. Projects would be selected by the bank’s independent, bipartisan leadership based on merit and demonstrated need. Evaluation criteria may include economic benefit, job creation, energy independence, congestion relief, regional benefit, and other public good considerations. Potential sectors for investment could include the full range or any combination of rail, road, transit, ports, dams, air travel, clean water, power grid, broadband, and others. The NIB will reform the system to cut waste, and emphasize merit and need. As a bank, the NIB would inject accountability into the infrastructure investment process. Since the bank would offer loans and loan guarantees using a combination of public and private capital, it would have the opportunity to move away from the traditional design-bid-build model and toward project delivery mechanisms that would deliver better value to taxpayers and investors.35 By operating on principles more closely tied to return on investment and financial discipline, the NIB would help to prevent the types cost escalation and project delays that have foiled the ARC Tunnel. America’s infrastructure policy has been significantly hampered by the lack of a national strategy rooted in clear, overarching objectives used to evaluate the merit of specific projects. The politicization and lack of coordination of the process has weakened public faith in the ability of government to effectively meet infrastructure challenges. In polling, 94% of respondents expressed concern about America’s infrastructure and over 80% supported increased federal and state investment. However, 61% indicated that improved accountability should be the top policy goal and only 22% felt that the federal government was effective in addressing infrastructure challenges.36 As a stand-alone entity, the NIB would address these concerns by selecting projects for funding across sectors based on broadly demonstrated need and ability to meet defined policy goals, such as economic benefit, energy independence, improved health and safety, efficiency, and return on investment. The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. By providing a new and innovative mechanism for project financing, the NIB could help provide funding for projects stalled by monetary constraints. This is particularly true for large scale projects that may be too complicated or costly for traditional means of financing. In the short-term, providing resources for infrastructure investment would have clear, positive impacts for recovery and growth. It has been estimated that every $1 billion in highway investment supports 30,000 jobs,37 and that every dollar invested in infrastructure increases GDP by $1.59.38 It has also been projected that an investment of $10 billion into both broadband and smart grid infrastructure would create 737,000 jobs.39 In the longer-term, infrastructure investments supported by the NIB will allow the U.S. to meet future demand, reduce the waste currently built into the system, and keep pace with competition from global rivals. The NIB will harness private capital to help government pay for new projects. The NIB would magnify the impact of federal funds by leveraging them through partnerships with private entities and other actors, providing taxpayers with more infrastructure bang for their public buck. Estimates have placed the amount of private capital readily available for infrastructure development at $400 billion,40 and as of 2007, sovereign wealth funds—another potential source of capital—were estimated to control over $3 trillion in assets with the potential to control $12 trillion by 2012.41 While these and other institutional funds have experienced declines as a result of the economic downturn, they will continue to be important sources of large, long-term investment resources. By offering loan guarantees to induce larger private investments or issuing debt instruments and securities, the NIB could tap these vast pools of private capital to generate investments much larger than its initial capitalization. In doing so, it could also lower the cost of borrowing for municipalities by lowering interest on municipal bonds for state and local governments by 50 to 100 basis points.42 The NIB would also be poised to help taxpayers take full advantage of historically low borrowing costs. In 2010, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries reached a historic low of 3.22%, as compared to a rate of 6.03% in 2000 and a peak rate of 13.92% in 1981. Prior to the Great Recession, this rate had not dipped below 4% since 1962.43 By allowing government and private actors to access financing at historically low rates, the NIB would help to capitalize on a once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.

==1AC== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention (___): Inherency</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate change is __undoubtedly__ past the tipping point – majority of scientists agree adaptation is the way to go</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Blaine 10/18</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – [BDLive, News provider “Adaptation to climate change’ should be focus” 10/18/12[[http://www.bdlive.co.za/national/science/2012/10/18/adaptation-to-climate-change-should-be-focus]] //NGopaul]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ATTEMPTS to control or curb the emission of greenhouse gases, linked by science to the overall rise in global temperatures, were "probably too late to arrest the inevitable trend of global warming", two scientists, one from South Africa’s University of the Witwatersrand (Wits), said in an opinion piece published in the peer review journal Nature Climate Change on Wednesday. Governments and institutions, especially in developing countries, should focus on adapting to climate change, instead of simply trying to limit or stop it, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has warned. The panel is an intergovernmental scientific intergovernmental body, set up in 1988 under the auspices of the United Nations at the request of member governments. The research was "very, very important", said Prof Mark Swilling, programme co-ordinator of the University of Stellenbosch School of Public Leadership’s Sustainable Development Programme. Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) chief biodiversity and ecosystems services scientist Belinda Reyers said there was already a body of work that called for a stronger emphasis on adaptation. What was new in this article was the call to look at changes in non-living things such as mountains and glaciers. In South Africa this was important, for example, because projections were that the country would face longer droughts closing with episodes of more intense rainfall than previously experienced, she said. "This is very challenging for South Africa because we already have very poor soils. It will exacerbate siltation in dams ... and we should be considering how to manage that because it is very expensive to deal with," she said. Prof Swilling said the "key take home message" from the piece was that the global community’s failure to take the key decisions to mitigate climate change would cause global warming by more than 2°C and this would cause major changes, especially for the poor. "So we must now anticipate these changes and prepare. This is what adaptation is. But adaptation done properly is really about social justice, people-centred development and restoration of ecosystem services. We should be doing all this anyway, irrespective of whether it is needed for adaptation or not," he said. Wits geoscientist Jasper Knight and his co-author Dr Stephan Harrison, quaternary science professor at the UK’s University of Exeter, argued governments’ focus on the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions through carbon cap-and-trade schemes and renewable energy sources instead of on the monitoring, modeling and managing the impacts of climate change on the dynamics of Earth surface systems, such as glaciers, rivers, mountains and coasts was "a critical omission". "This is a critical omission, as Earth surface systems provide water and soil resources, sustain ecosystem services and strongly influence biogeochemical climate feedbacks in ways that are as yet uncertain," they wrote in the article, titled "The Impacts of climate change on terrestrial Earth surface systems". Dr Knight said mitigation strategies, such as building flood defences, were "seen as a more immediate quick fix solution" to issues of increased flood hazard than to come up with adaptation strategies, such as improved building codes or planning regulations, which were often seen as "longer-term solutions" that had less direct relevance. "In the short term mitigation is fine, but it doesn’t address long-term root causes," he said. Dr Reyers’ colleague, Bob Scholes, leader of the CSIR’s Natural Resources and the Environment Research Group, said until recently, adaptation was thought of as a "developing world issue", while mitigation was a "developed world issue".</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 1: Inherency-Put your warming CPs away – climate change is past the tipping point]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Put your warming CPs away – climate change is past the tipping point**</span></span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Sutley et al 10</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">**(**Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin//Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP // Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Published on October 5th, 2010)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">¶ 14PROGRESS REPORT OF THE INTERAGENCY CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION TASK FORCE - 2010 PART TWO. THE IMPORTANCE OF ADAPTATION¶ Climate change is affecting many aspects of our society, our livelihoods, and our environment. Communities across the Nation are experiencing climate change impacts, such as changes in average temperatures, more extreme weather events, and rising sea levels.3 Historically, societies¶ and ecosystems have adjusted or adapted to natural variability in climatic conditions. However, the pace and impacts of climate change are occurring outside the range of past experiences, rendering many of our current adaptive mechanisms insufficient. In addition, climate change impacts do not act in isolation; rather, climate-related changes interact with and often magnify the impacts of existing non- climatic stressors. Decision-makers across the Nation will need to take proactive measures to better understand and prepare for current and future changes in climate conditions.¶ There is scientific consensus that the Earth’s climate is changing due to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases (including carbon dioxide) in the atmosphere.4,5,6 As a result, increased energy trapped in the atmosphere and the oceans due to these higher concentrations is already leading to impacts, including warmer average water and air temperatures (Figure 1), in the United States and globally.¶ The Obama Administration is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions to minimize the future impacts of climate change. However, the climate impacts we are observing today will continue to increase, at least in the short-term, regardless of the degree to which greenhouse gas emissions are managed. This is driven by factors such as the long-lived nature of certain greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and the absorption of heat by the Earth’s oceans. Even if we reduce our emissions, global average temperatures are predicted to rise over the next 100 years (Figure 2).7 In the long-term, theability to manage greenhouse gas emissions and moderate or reduce atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases will affect the magnitude of the impacts to which we will need to adapt.8 Therefore, mitigation and adaptation are inextricably linked, and both are required in order to reduce the impacts of climate change</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 1: Inherency-That disrupts all transportation infrastructure]]That disrupts all transportation infrastructure</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EPA ‘12</span>__</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">--</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[Impacts on Land-Based Transportation; June 14, 2012 < [[http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/impacts-adaptation/transportation.html]]>]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Impacts on Roadways Higher temperatures can cause pavement to soften and expand. This can create rutting and potholes, particularly in high-traffic areas and can place stress on bridge joints. Heat waves can also limit construction activities, particularly in areas with high humidity. With these changes, it could become more costly to build and maintain roads and highways. On the other hand, certain areas may experience cost savings and improved mobility from reduced snowfall and less-frequent winter storms since warmer winters may lead to reductions in snow and ice removal, as well as salting requirements. [1] [2]¶ Climate change is projected to concentrate rainfall into more intense storms. Heavy rains may result in flooding, which could disrupt traffic, delay construction activities, and weaken or wash out the soil and culverts that support roads, tunnels, and bridges. [1] [2]¶ Roadway damaged by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Source: NASA (2005)¶ Exposure to flooding and extreme snow events also shortens the life expectancy of highways and roads. The stress of water and snow may cause damage, requiring more frequent maintenance, repairs, and rebuilding. Road infrastructure in coastal areas is particularly sensitive to more frequent and permanent flooding from sea level rise and storm surges. Approximately 60,000 miles of coastal roads in the United States are already exposed to flooding from coastal storms and high waves. Furthermore, major highways in coastal areas serve as critical evacuation routes. Evacuation routes must be protected from flooding and damage so they may be used for emergencies. [2] [3] In some locations, warmer temperatures are projected to cause more winter precipitation to fall as rain instead of snow. Winter flooding could occur more frequently, if the frozen ground cannot absorb precipitation. Landslides and wash-outs could also occur more frequently, as saturated soils are exposed to more rainwater. Drought in areas such as the Southwest could increase the likelihood of wildfires that reduce visibility and threaten roads and infrastructure. [1] [2] Impacts on Ice Roads Freezing temperatures are required for ice roads in Alaska. These are frozen routes used to connect northern communities, as well as the oil, gas, and mining industries. The tundra beneath these frozen roads is fragile, so transportation is limited to periods when the road is frozen. Warming temperatures would reduce the number of days ice roads are open, limiting transportation access to these areas. Impacts on Vehicles As temperatures increase, many types of vehicles can overheat, and tires will deteriorate more quickly. But milder winters, reductions in the number of cold days, delays in winter freezing, and earlier spring thaws may reduce cold-weather damage to vehicles. [1]Impacts on Railways Extreme heat can cause rails to buckle. Source: Volpe National Transportation Systems Center High temperatures cause rail tracks to expand and buckle. More frequent and severe heat waves may require track repairs or speed restrictions to avoid derailments. [1] Heavy precipitation could also lead to delays and disruption. For example, the June 2008 Midwest floods closed major east-west rail lines for several days. Tropical storms and hurricanes can also leave debris on railways, disrupting rail travel and freight transport. [1] [2] Like roadways, coastal railways and subways are subject to inundation from sea level rise and storm surges. This is particularly true in underground pathways and tunnels, which are often already below sea level. Increased flooding from heavy precipitation and storm surges could disrupt rail travel as well as freight operations. Damages from flooding may require rail lines and subway infrastructure to be rebuilt or raised in future expansion projects. [1] [2] Impacts on Air Transportation Infrastructure In addition to causing closures or delays, flooding may damage facilities, including airstrips. Some of the busiest airports in the United States are located in low-lying coastal areas, making them particularly vulnerable to inundation. For example, in the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut, many critical transportation infrastructure facilities (including Newark and LaGuardia airports) lie within the range of current and projected 50-year coastal storm surges. Many airstrips in Alaska are built on permafrost. Warmer temperatures would thaw permafrost and cause soils to settle, potentially damaging the foundation and structure of key infrastructure. Runways and airports may require rebuilding, relocation, or increased maintenance. [1] [2] Impacts on Ships and Sea Lanes¶ Ships are sensitive to many factors, including the depth of a channel and the extent of sea ice. Increasing temperatures could reduce the amount of sea ice in many important shipping lanes, extending the shipping season. Warmer winters will likely lead to less snow and ice accumulation on vessels, decks, and rigging in marine transportation. In the Arctic, warmer temperatures could also open up the possibility of a Northwest Passage, which could reduce shipping times and distances. However, these new passages may also provide a pathway for invasive species transport and survival. [1] [2]¶ Shipping lanes experiencing sea level rise will be able to accommodate larger ships, reducing shipping costs. However, higher sea levels will mean lower clearance under waterway bridges. In inland waterways where water levels are expected to decline, as in the Great Lakes, ships could face weight restrictions, as channels become too shallow. [1] [2]¶ Changes in precipitation can affect shipping in many ways. Flooding could close shipping channels, and increased runoff from extreme precipitation events could cause silt and debris to build up, leading to shallower channels. Changes in precipitation patterns could also affect the rate at which sediments accumulate, which may also make existing channels shallower and less accessible. In areas experiencing increasing drought, water levels could periodically decrease, limiting inland shipping on rivers. More severe storms could increase disruptions in marine travel and shipping.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 1: Inherency-Status quo lacks a viable plan for transportation infrastructure resilience]]**Status quo lacks a viable plan for transportation infrastructure resilience**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">MacArthur et al 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In early January 2009, a severe winter storm hit the Pacific Northwest (PNW). Heavy snow, followed by abundant, warm rain led to extreme flooding and destructive landslides throughout the state of Washington, forcing emergency closures of multiple state and local highway routes, including Interstate 5 and Interstate 90, and the interruption of freight and passenger rail service. The economic consequences from storm effects on the transportation system, including freight disruptions and infrastructure damage, were estimated in the tens of millions of dollars. Governor Christine Gregoire eventually requested disaster relief from the federal government (Gregoire, 2009). However, this weather event was not an isolated case. During the previous winter, a similar storm created crippling conditions in the same areas. The costs of freight delays alone were estimated around $75 million for the winter storm and flooding that closed Interstate 5 and Interstate 90 in the winter of 2007-08 (WSDOT, 2008). While we must be careful to distinguish individual extreme weather events, such as those above, from long-term trends in climate, consensus in the scientific community projects an increased frequency and intensity of major storms, temperature increases, and changes in seasonal precipitation as a very likely outcome of global climate change. Patterns that today are considered “extreme” may instead become a new normal. This is a potentially very costly problem as our existing surface transportation system has been designed and constructed based upon historical climate trends. Assumptions that have been used historically to design facilities and respond to weather-related “emergencies” may no longer work. A transportation system built without planning for changing climate will likely experience a variety of costly impacts in terms of damage and traveler delay. Among these impacts are inundation of coastal roads from SLR; erosion of roadways and bridge supports from heavy precipitation and storms; increased road and rail maintenance due to flooding and temperature extremes; and travel delays due to weather events and more widespread wildfires. As a major source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (28 percent nationally), transportation was one of the early sectors to begin responding to the climate change threat, primarily through efforts to account for and reduce the amount of GHGs released into the atmosphere (Center for Transportation and the Environment, 2008). Strategies involve a wide range of activities, including improvements in vehicle and fuel technologies, and land use planning and transportation operation improvements that reduce vehicle miles travelled and increase the overall efficiency of travel (Table 1). These activities are collectively referred to as climate mitigation (Cambridge Systematics, 2009). Recent studies indicate that climate change planning efforts conducted by governments have thus far overwhelmingly focused on mitigation strategies to reduce GHGs, while relatively few are working towards climate adaptation (Wheeler, 2008).</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 2: Economy]]Contention (): Economy</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 2: Economy-Climate change will destroy current transportation networks wrecking the economy]]**Climate change will destroy current transportation networks wrecking the economy**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potter et al</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>,</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Joanne R. March, 2008 Michael J. Savonis, Virginia R. Burkett U.S. Climate Change Science Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 4.7 “Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://files.library.northwestern.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/transportation/online/restricted/200819/PB2008110533.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation is such an integral part of daily life in the United States that few pause to consider its importance. Yet the Nation’s strong intermodal network of highways, public transit, rail, marine, and aviation is central to our ability to work, go to school, enjoy leisure time, maintain our homes, and stay in touch with friends and family. U.S. businesses depend on reliable transportation services to receive materials and transport products to their customers; a robust transportation network is essential to the economy. In short, a sound transportation system is vital to the Nation’s social and economic future. Transportation professionals – including planners, designers, engineers, financial specialists, ecologists, safety experts, and others – work hard to ensure that U.S. communities have access to safe and dependable transportation services. Given the ongoing importance of the Nation’s transportation system, it is appropriate to consider what effect climate change may have on this essential network. Through a regional case study of the central Gulf Coast, this report begins to examine the potential implications of climate change on transportation infrastructure, operations, and services. Investments in transportation are substantial and result in infrastructure that lasts for decades. Transportation plans and designs should, therefore, be carefully considered and well informed by a range of factors, including consideration of climate variability and change. Climate also affects the safety, operations, and maintenance of transportation infrastructure and systems. This research investigates the potential impacts of climate variability and change on transportation, and it assesses how planners and managers may incorporate this information into their decisions to ensure a reliable and robust future transportation network. This report does not contain recommendations about specific facilities or adaptation strategies, but rather seeks to contribute to the information available so that States and local communities can make more informed decisions when planning for the future.¶ The climate models used to estimate temperature changes agree that it will be warmer in the future. According to the IPCC report, global average warming is expected to be about 0.4°C (0.72°F) during the next 20 years. Even if the concentrations of all greenhouse gases and aerosols had been stabilized at 2000 levels, warming of 0.2°C (0.36°F) would be expected during this period (IPCC, 2007). Over the longer term, the IPCC models project average global temperature increases ranging from 1.1°C (1.98°F) to 6.4°C (11.5°F) by the end of the 21st century, although climate responses in specific regions will vary. These projections are the result of reviewing a robust set of global climate models under a variety of future scenarios – using a range of assumptions for future economic activity and energy use – for the Earth as a whole. The average increase in temperature may not be as important to the transportation community as the changes in extreme temperature, which also are expected to increase. Over the last 50 years, the frequency of cold days and nights has declined, while hot days, hot nights, and heat waves have become more frequent. The number of days with temperature above 32°C (90°F) and 38°C (100°F) has been increasing since 1970, as has the intensity and length of periods of drought. The IPCC report finds that it is virtually certain that the next century will witness warmer and more frequent hot days and nights over most land areas (IPCC, 2007). Increasing temperatures have the potential to affect multiple modes of transportation, primarily impacting surface transportation. The transportation impacts mentioned most often in the literature included pavement damage; rail buckling; less lift and fuel efficiency for aircraft; and the implications of lower inland water levels, thawing permafrost, reduced ice cover on seaways, and an increase in vegetation. These are discussed in greater detail below:¶ • Pavement damage – The quality of highway pavement was identified as a potential issue for temperate climates, where more extreme summer temperatures and/or more frequent freeze/thaw cycles may be experienced. Extremely hot days, over an extended period of time, could lead to the rutting of highway pavement and the more rapid breakdown of asphalt seal binders, resulting in cracking, potholing, and bleeding. This, in turn, could damage the structural integrity of the road and/or cause the pavement to become more slippery when wet. Adaptation measures mentioned included more frequent maintenance, milling out ruts, and the laying of more heat resistant asphalt.¶ • Rail buckling – Railroads could encounter rail buckling more frequently in temperate climates that experience extremely hot temperatures. If unnoticed, rail buckling can result in derailment of trains. Peterson (2008) noted, “Lower speeds and shorter trains, to shorten braking distance, and lighter loads to reduce track stress are operational impacts.” Adaptation measures included better monitoring of rail temperatures and ultimately more maintenance of the track, replacing it when needed.¶ • Vegetation growth – The growing season for deciduous trees that shed their leaves may be extended, causing more slipperiness on railroads and roads and visual obstructions. Possible adaptation measures included better management of the leaf foliage and planting more low-maintenance vegetation along transportation corridors to act as buffers (Wooler, 2004).¶ • Reductions in aircraft lift and efficiency – Higher temperatures would reduce air density, decreasing both lift and the engine efficiency of aircraft. As a result, longer runways and/or more powerful airplanes would be required. However, one analyst projected that technical advances would minimize the need for runway redesign as aircraft become more powerful and efficient (Wooler, 2004).¶ • Reduced water levels – Changes in water levels were discussed in relation to marine transport. Inland waterways such as the Great Lakes and Mississippi River could experience lower water levels due to increased temperatures and evaporation; these lower water levels would mean that ships and barges would not be able to carry as much weight. Adaptation measures included reducing cargo loads, designing vessels to require less draft, or dredging the water body to make it deeper.¶ • Reduced ice cover – Reduced ice cover was generally considered a positive impact of increasing temperatures in the literature. For example, a study conducted by John D. Lindeberg and George M. Albercook, which was included in the Report of the Great Lakes Regional Assessment Group for the U.S. Global Change Research Program, stated, “the costs of additional dredging [due to lower water levels] could be partially mitigated by the benefits of additional shipping days on the [Great] Lakes caused by less persistent ice cover” (Sousounis, 2000, p. 41). Additionally, arctic sea passages could open; for example, the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment noted, “projected reductions in sea-ice extent are likely to improve access along the Northern Sea Route and the Northwest Passage” (Instanes et al., 2005, p. 934). However, negative environmental and security impacts also may result from reduced ice cover as well from as the increased level of shipping. These are discussed below in the subsection on indirect impacts (Section 1.3.6.).¶ • Thawing permafrost – The implications of thawing permafrost for Arctic infrastructure receive considerable attention in the literature. Permafrost is the foundation upon which much of the Arctic’s infrastructure is built. The literature consistently noted that as the permafrost thaws the infrastructure will become unstable – an effect being experienced today. Roads, railways, and airstrips are all vulnerable to the thawing of permafrost. Adaptation measures vary depending on the amount of permafrost that underlies any given piece of infrastructure. The literature suggested that some assets will only need rehabilitation, other assets will need to be relocated, and different construction methods will need to be used, including the possibility of installing cooling mechanisms. According to the Arctic Research Commission, “roads, railways, and airstrips placed on ice-rich continuous permafrost will generally require relocation to well-drained natural foundations or replacement with substantially different construction methods” (U.S. Arctic Research Commission Permafrost Task Force, 2003, p. 29).¶ • Other – Other impacts of increasing temperatures included a reduction in ice loads on structures (such as bridges and piers), which could eventually allow them to be designed for less stress, and a lengthening of construction seasons due to fewer colder days in traditionally cold climates.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 2: Economy-Try or die for the aff – even small risk of warming will devastate trade]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Try or die for the aff – even small risk of warming will devastate trade**</span></span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">WTO et al ’09</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (World Trade Organization and United Nations Environment Programme WTO and UNEP, “Trade and Climate Change”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext;">[[http://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/trade_climate_change_e.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As greenhouse gas emissions and temperatures increase, the impacts from climate change are expected to become more widespread and to intensify. For example, even with small increases in average temperature, the type, frequency and intensity of extreme weather – such as hurricanes, typhoons, fl oods, droughts, and storms – are projected to increase. Th e distribution of these weather events, however, is expected to vary considerably among regions and countries, and impacts will depend to a large extent on the vulnerability of populations or ecosystems. Developing countries, and particularly the poorest and most marginalized populations within these countries, will generally be both the most adversely aff ected by the impacts of future climate change and the most vulnerable to its eff ects, because they are less able to adapt than developed countries and populations. In addition, climate change risks compound the other challenges which are already faced by these countries, including tackling poverty, improving health care, increasing food security and improving access to sources of energy. For instance, climate change is projected to lead to hundreds of millions of people having limited access to water supplies or facing inadequate water quality, which will, in turn, lead to greater health problems. Although the impacts of climate change are specifi c to location and to the level of development, most sectors of the global economy are expected to be affected and these impacts will often have implications for trade. For example, three trade-related areas are considered to be particularly vulnerable to climate change. Agriculture is considered to be one of the sectors most vulnerable to climate change, and also represents a key sector for international trade. In low-latitude regions, where most developing countries are located, reductions of about 5 to 10 per cent in the yields of major cereal crops are projected even in the case of small temperature increases of around 1° C. Although it is expected that local temperature increases of between 1° C and 3° C would have benefi cial impacts on agricultural outputs in mid- to high-latitude regions, warming beyond this range will most likely result in increasingly negative impacts for these regions also. According to some studies, crop yields in some African countries could fall by up to 50 per cent by 2020, with net revenues from crops falling by as much as 90 per cent by 2100. Depending on the location, agriculture will also be prone to water scarcity due to loss of glacial meltwater and reduced rainfall or droughts. Tourism is another industry that may be particularly vulnerable to climate change, for example, through changes in snow cover, coastal degradation and extreme weather. Both the fi sheries and forestry sectors also risk being adversely impacted by climate change. Likewise, ix Part IV Part III Part II Part I there are expected to be major impacts on coastal ecosystems, including the disappearance of coral and the loss of marine biodiversity. Finally, one of the clearest impacts will be on trade infrastructure and routes. The IPCC has identified port facilities, as well as buildings, roads, railways, airports and bridges, as being dangerously at risk of damage from rising sea levels and the increased occurrence of instances of extreme weather, such as fl ooding and hurricanes. Moreover, it is projected that changes in sea ice, particularly in the Arctic, will lead to the availability of new shipping routes.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 2: Economy-Economic collapse causes global nuclear war]]**Economic collapse causes global nuclear war**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Freidberg & Schonfeld, 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> **-**-- *Professor of Politics and IR at Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, AND **senior editor of Commentary and a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton (10/21/2008, Aaron and Gabriel, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, Wall Street Journal,[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With the global financial system in serious trouble, is America's geostrategic dominance likely to diminish? If so, what would that mean? One immediate implication of the crisis that began on Wall Street and spread across the world is that the primary instruments of U.S. foreign policy will be crimped. The next president will face an entirely new and adverse fiscal position. Estimates of this year's federal budget deficit already show that it has jumped $237 billion from last year, to $407 billion. With families and businesses hurting, there will be calls for various and expensive domestic relief programs. In the face of this onrushing river of red ink, both Barack Obama and John McCain have been reluctant to lay out what portions of their programmatic wish list they might defer or delete. Only Joe Biden has suggested a possible reduction -- foreign aid. This would be one of the few popular cuts, but in budgetary terms it is a mere grain of sand. Still, Sen. Biden's comment hints at where we may be headed: toward a major reduction in America's world role, and perhaps even a new era of financially-induced isolationism. Pressures to cut defense spending, and to dodge the cost of waging two wars, already intense before this crisis, are likely to mount. Despite the success of the surge, the war in Iraq remains deeply unpopular. Precipitous withdrawal -- attractive to a sizable swath of the electorate before the financial implosion -- might well become even more popular with annual war bills running in the hundreds of billions. Protectionist sentiments are sure to grow stronger as jobs disappear in the coming slowdown. Even before our current woes, calls to save jobs by restricting imports had begun to gather support among many Democrats and some Republicans. In a prolonged recession, gale-force winds of protectionism will blow Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices, now driven down by the global slowdown. China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending heavily on foreign investment and access to foreign markets. Both will now be constricted, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 2: Economy-US Trade leadership is critical to multilateral trade – accesses every impact]]**US Trade leadership is critical to multilateral trade – accesses every impact**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi ‘4</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (February 26, 2004 Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. [[http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The second point is that strengthening the world trading system is essential to America's wider global objectives. Fighting terrorism, reducing poverty, improving health, integrating China and other countries in the global economy — all of these issues are linked, in one way or another, to world trade. This is not to say that trade is the answer to all America's economic concerns; only that meaningful solutions are inconceivable without it. The world trading system is the linchpin of today's global order — underpinning its security as well as its prosperity. A successful WTO is an example of how multilateralism can work. Conversely, if it weakens or fails, much else could fail with it. This is something which the US — at the epicentre of a more interdependent world — cannot afford to ignore. These priorities must continue to guide US policy — as they have done since the Second World War. America has been the main driving force behind eight rounds of multilateral trade negotiations, including the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the WTO. The US — together with the EU — was instrumental in launching the latest Doha Round two years ago. Likewise, the recent initiative, spearheaded by Ambassador Zoellick, to re-energize the negotiations and move them towards a successful conclusion is yet another example of how essential the US is to the multilateral process — signalling that the US remains committed to further liberalization, that the Round is moving, and that other countries have a tangible reason to get on board. The reality is this: when the US leads the system can move forward; when it withdraws, the system drifts. The fact that US leadership is essential, does not mean it is easy. As WTO rules have expanded, so too has as the complexity of the issues the WTO deals with — everything from agriculture and accounting, to tariffs and telecommunication. The WTO is also exerting huge gravitational pull on countries to join — and participate actively — in the system. The WTO now has 146 Members — up from just 23 in 1947 — and this could easily rise to 170 or more within a decade. Emerging powers like China, Brazil, and India rightly demand a greater say in an institution in which they have a growing stake. So too do a rising number of voices outside the system as well. More and more people recognize that the WTO matters. More non-state actors — businesses, unions, environmentalists, development NGOs — want the multilateral system to reflect their causes and concerns. A decade ago, few people had even heard of the GATT. Today the WTO is front page news. A more visible WTO has inevitably become a more politicized WTO. The sound and fury surrounding the WTO's recent Ministerial Meeting in Cancun — let alone Seattle — underline how challenging managing the WTO can be. But these challenges can be exaggerated. They exist precisely because so many countries have embraced a common vision. Countries the world over have turned to open trade — and a rules-based system — as the key to their growth and development. They agreed to the Doha Round because they believed their interests lay in freer trade, stronger rules, a more effective WTO. Even in Cancun the great debate was whether the multilateral trading system was moving fast and far enough — not whether it should be rolled back. Indeed, it is critically important that we draw the right conclusions from Cancun — which are only now becoming clearer. The disappointment was that ministers were unable to reach agreement. The achievement was that they exposed the risks of failure, highlighted the need for North-South collaboration, and — after a period of introspection — acknowledged the inescapable logic of negotiation. Cancun showed that, if the challenges have increased, it is because the stakes are higher. The bigger challenge to American leadership comes from inside — not outside — the United States. In America's current debate about trade, jobs and globalization we have heard a lot about the costs of liberalization. We need to hear more about the opportunities. We need to be reminded of the advantages of America's openness and its trade with the world — about the economic growth tied to exports; the inflation-fighting role of imports, the innovative stimulus of global competition. We need to explain that freer trade works precisely because it involves positive change — better products, better job opportunities, better ways of doing things, better standards of living. While it is true that change can be threatening for people and societies, it is equally true that the vulnerable are not helped by resisting change — by putting up barriers and shutting out competition. They are helped by training, education, new and better opportunities that — with the right support policies — can flow from a globalized economy. The fact is that for every job in the US threatened by imports there is a growing number of high-paid, high skill jobs created by exports. Exports supported 7 million workers a decade ago; that number is approaching around 12 million today. And these new jobs — in aerospace, finance, information technology — pay 10 per cent more than the average American wage. We especially need to inject some clarity — and facts — into the current debate over the outsourcing of services jobs. Over the next decade, the US is projected to create an average of more than 2 million new services jobs a year — compared to roughly 200,000 services jobs that will be outsourced. I am well aware that this issue is the source of much anxiety in America today. Many Americans worry about the potential job losses that might arise from foreign competition in services sectors. But it’s worth remembering that concerns about the impact of foreign competition are not new. Many of the reservations people are expressing today are echoes of what we heard in the 1970s and 1980s. But people at that time didn’t fully appreciate the power of American ingenuity. Remarkable advances in technology and productivity laid the foundation for unprecedented job creation in the 1990s and there is no reason to doubt that this country, which has shown time and again such remarkable potential for competing in the global economy, will not soon embark again on such a burst of job-creation. America's openness to service-sector trade — combined with the high skills of its workforce — will lead to more growth, stronger industries, and a shift towards higher value-added, higher-paying employment. Conversely, closing the door to service trade is a strategy for killing jobs, not saving them. Americans have never run from a challenge and have never been defeatist in the face of strong competition. Part of this challenge is to create the conditions for global growth and job creation here and around the world. I believe Americans realize what is at stake. The process of opening to global trade can be disruptive, but they recognize that the US economy cannot grow and prosper any other way. They recognize the importance of finding global solutions to shared global problems. Besides, what is the alternative to the WTO? Some argue that the world's only superpower need not be tied down by the constraints of the multilateral system. They claim that US sovereignty is compromised by international rules, and that multilateral institutions limit rather than expand US influence. Americans should be deeply sceptical about these claims. Almost none of the trade issues facing the US today are any easier to solve unilaterally, bilaterally or regionally. The reality is probably just the opposite. What sense does it make — for example — to negotiate e-commerce rules bilaterally? Who would be interested in disciplining agricultural subsidies in a regional agreement but not globally? How can bilateral deals — even dozens of them — come close to matching the economic impact of agreeing to global free trade among 146 countries? Bilateral and regional deals can sometimes be a complement to the multilateral system, but they can never be a substitute. There is a bigger danger. By treating some countries preferentially, bilateral and regional deals exclude others — fragmenting global trade and distorting the world economy. Instead of liberalizing trade — and widening growth — they carve it up. Worse, they have a domino effect: bilateral deals inevitably beget more bilateral deals, as countries left outside are forced to seek their own preferential arrangements, or risk further marginalization. This is precisely what we see happening today. There are already over two hundred bilateral and regional agreements in existence, and each month we hear of a new or expanded deal. There is a basic contradiction in the assumption that bilateral approaches serve to strengthen the multilateral, rules-based system. Even when intended to spur free trade, they can ultimately risk undermining it. This is in no one's interest, least of all the United States. America led in the creation of the multilateral system after 1945 precisely to avoid a return to hostile blocs — blocs that had done so much to fuel interwar instability and conflict. America's vision, in the words of Cordell Hull, was that “enduring peace and the welfare of nations was indissolubly connected with the friendliness, fairness and freedom of world trade”. Trade would bind nations together, making another war unthinkable. Non-discriminatory rules would prevent a return to preferential deals and closed alliances. A network of multilateral initiatives and organizations — the Marshal Plan, the IMF, the World Bank, and the GATT, now the WTO — would provide the institutional bedrock for the international rule of law, not power. Underpinning all this was the idea that freedom — free trade, free democracies, the free exchange of ideas — was essential to peace and prosperity, a more just world. It is a vision that has emerged pre-eminent a half century later. Trade has expanded twenty-fold since 1950. Millions in Asia, Latin America, and Africa are being lifted out of poverty, and millions more have new hope for the future. All the great powers — the US, Europe, Japan, India, China and soon Russia — are part of a rules-based multilateral trading system, greatly increasing the chances for world prosperity and peace. There is a growing realization that — in our interdependent world — sovereignty is constrained, not by multilateral rules, but by the absence of rules.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 2: Economy-Nuclear War]]**Nuclear War**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Panzner 8__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 3: Heg]] </span>=== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Plan Text]]Plan Text</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Plan Text-Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in creating resilient transportation infrastructure in the United States.]]**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in creating resilient transportation infrastructure in the United States.**</span>==== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 4: Solvency]]Contention (___): Solvency</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 4: Solvency-Plan solves]]**Plan solves**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Schwartz 10, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">consultant and an National Academy of Engineering member, in ’10 | Jr, Henry G.” Adaptation to the Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, The Bridge, Fall|</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Interactions and relationships among geographical¶ regions and social sectors cannot be ignored. Drought¶ in the Southwest and/or increases in water and air temperatures¶ may reduce the efficiencies of power plants,¶ just when more power is needed for air conditioning.¶ Intense storms and floods can impact commerce, as they¶ did following Katrina and the great floods of 1993 on¶ the upper Mississippi River.¶ Conflicts inevitably arise between the needs of people¶ and the needs of the ecosystem in which they live,¶ and adaptation measures to manage the risks of climate¶ change must incorporate sound sustainability principles.¶ If we plan and act responsibly, we may be able to “have¶ our cake and eat it too.”¶ Sound Solutions for the 21st Century¶ Transportation System¶ We must not use the uncertainties and challenges¶ of adapting to climate change as an excuse for inaction.¶ The challenge to the engineering profession is¶ to take into account the inherent uncertainties of climate¶ science, as well as complex technological, social,¶ economic, and environmental interrelationships, and¶ develop sound solutions for transportation systems that¶ will serve us until the end of the century. A large body¶ of work has been done on making decisions on issues¶ that include great uncertainties. Scenario analyses, for¶ example, can provide “envelopes” of possible outcomes¶ (e.g., best case/worst case scenarios and respective probabilities).¶ To many, climate change is a distant worry, but developers¶ of transportation systems work on a time horizon¶ of 50 to 100 years for new and rehabilitated facilities.¶ Thus they have no choice but to take into account the¶ impacts of climate change. The marginal costs of accommodating¶ climate change impacts in major systems will¶ be dwarfed by the cost of retrofitting systems to meet¶ these same needs decades hence. To engineers, many¶ of the solutions for adaptation are fairly obvious—build¶ robust, resilient systems, protect or move existing assets,¶ and, when necessary, abandon indefensible facilities.¶ Some adaptations to climate change are listed¶ below:¶ Sea Level Rise¶ • Build or enhance levees and dikes to resist higher¶ sea levels and storm surges.¶ • Elevate critical infrastructure.¶ • Abandon or relocate coastal highways, rail lines,¶ and bridges.¶ • Provide good evacuation routes and operational¶ plans.¶ • Provide federal incentives to reduce the amount of¶ development in at-risk coastal regions.¶ Heat Waves¶ • Support research on new, more heat-resistant materials¶ for paving and bridge decks.¶ • Replace and/or reconstruct highway and bridge¶ expansion joints.¶ • Increase the length of airport runways to compensate¶ for lower air densities.¶ • Revisit standards for construction workers exposed¶ to high temperatures.¶ Increased Storm Intensity¶ • Revise hydrologic storm and flood frequency maps.¶ • Develop new design standards for hydraulic¶ structures.¶ • Reinforce at-risk structures, particularly to protect¶ against scouring of bridge piers.¶ • Encourage better land-use planning for flood plains.¶ Stronger Hurricanes¶ • Move critical infrastructure inland.¶ • Reinforce and/or build more robust, resilient¶ structures.¶ • Design for greater storm surges.¶ • Strengthen and elevate port facilities.¶ Arctic Warming¶ • Identify areas and infrastructure that will be damaged¶ by thawing permafrost.¶ • Develop new approaches to foundation design.¶ • Reinforce, protect, or move seaside villages.¶ Conclusions¶ We can continue to debate the validity of climate science,¶ but waiting for decades or longer for final “proof”¶ would be foolhardy at best. Fifty or 100 years from now¶ the impact of increasing emissions of GHGs will be¶ firmly established. If the projections of today’s climate¶ scientists are correct and we have failed to take both¶ mitigating and adaptive actions, then much damage will¶ already have been done.¶ The potential impacts of climate change on the built¶ environment and the implications for transportation¶ infrastructure are sufficiently well defined for us to take¶ action now. If this generation of engineers fails to act,¶ coastal highways and railroads will be under water,¶ bridges will be unusable, tunnels will be periodically¶ flooded, communities in the Midwest, Northeast, and¶ Southeast will be threatened by river flooding, people in¶ the Southwest will face increasing water shortages, and¶ entire villages along the North Slope of Alaska will be¶ swallowed by the sea.¶ However, if we incorporate climate change into the¶ regular planning processes for transportation and other¶ infrastructure, the marginal costs of building more robust,¶ resilient systems can be readily accommodated. And we¶ will have met our obligations to future generations.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 4: Solvency-Federal leadership key on adaptation policies]]**Federal leadership key on adaptation policies**</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Sutley et al ‘10</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator //Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard// Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin //Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change// Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation //John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy// Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP //Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted )// ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’// [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf]]Published on October 5th, 2010 / £Shen**)**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Role of the Federal Government in Adapting to Climate Change¶ The Federal Government has an important and unique role in climate adaptation, but it is only one part of a broader effort that must include multiple levels of government and private and non-governmental partners throughout the country. In particular, Federal leadership, guidance, information, and support are vital to planning for and implementing adaptive actions. Because climate impacts span political boundaries, the Federal Government must respond in partnership with communities, Tribes, and states – many of which are already beginning to implement adaptation measures. Effective adaptation requires that stakeholders in affected regions coordinate their responses to climate impacts on shared infrastructure and resources.¶ At the core of the Federal Government’s role should be a commitment to promote and implement best practices for adaptation, build greater public awareness and understanding of the importance of adaptation, and maintain dialogue and partnerships¶ with stakeholders and decision makers. The Government should continue to enhance services that enable informed decisions based on the best available science, and to work with the international community to improve knowledge sharing and coordinate adaptation investments. The Government should also consider how Federal policies may lead to unintended consequences that increase the Nation’s vulnerability to climate risks, thus making adaptation more costly and difficult. For example, certain policies may lead to increased development in the very areas that climate risks would suggest people avoid.¶ The Federal Government also has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects a wide range of Federal services, operations, programs, assets (e.g., infrastructure, land), and our national security. The Government must exercise a leadership role to address climate impacts on Federal infrastructure interests and on natural, cultural, and historic resources that it has statutory responsibilities to protect. The Federal Government should identify its most significant adaptation risks and opportunities and incorporate response strategies into its planning to ensure that Federal resources are invested wisely and that its services and operations remain effective in the context of a changing climate. Importantly, the Federal Government must work in partnership with local, state, Tribal, and regional authorities as it develops and implements adaptation strategies, since most adaptive actions will occur at the local level.¶ The Federal Government has an important stake in adaptation because climate change directly affects Federal lands, including National Parks and forests.¶</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 4: Solvency-Investment in adaptation tech solves economic consequences]]**Investment in adaptation tech solves economic consequences**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">DEFRA ‘11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(“Climate Resilient Infrastructure: Preparing for a Changing Climate; Adapting Infrastructure to a Changing Climate”; May 9, 2011 Defra - Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/|www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact of climate change on infrastructure is an important economic, environmental and social issue, recognised by the Government’s National Infrastructure Plan 4. Recent impacts from flooding and severe weather highlight the risks infrastructure could face and the significant economic damage these types of events bring. Effective, reliable infrastructure underpins economic activity, and failure to adapt, increases the possibility of service disruption and adverse economic impacts. That is why Defra’s Business Plan 5 has a priority to support a strong and sustainable green economy resilient to climate change; adapting infrastructure forms a key part to realising this. To reduce the risk infrastructure faces from climate change planned, but flexible, adaptation actions are required. Therefore, it is about putting in place measures that enable the cost effective management of climate impacts to reduce the risk that climate change presents to infrastructure. This includes integrating the impacts of climate change into decision making for new infrastructure and maintenance of existing infrastructure. It is not about eliminating all risks from climate change or extreme weather. Potential Opportunities In a low carbon, climate resilient world, investment in climate resilient infrastructure will help enhance the attractiveness of the UK for inward investment, benefitting the economy, business and Government. Modelling by the OECD6 suggests that each £1 spent on climate change adaptation delivers four times its value in terms of potential damage avoided. Adapting infrastructure to climate change presents opportunities if early action is taken and expertise developed. This includes new skills and technologies as well as additional adaptation capacity to enable infrastructure to be adapted, such as new engineering practices or IT-based technology. All countries will need to increase their investment in their infrastructure to adjust to a more challenging climate. This is a potential opportunity; by developing adaptation expertise now, businesses should be well-placed to capitalise on opportunities in domestic and global markets. Potential economic opportunities • Development of new technologies and skills to be used domestically and exported. • Engineering and planning consultancy benefits, if we do this sooner and better than other countries, our engineering and consultancy organisations can be market leaders in adapting infrastructure. • Development of new ICT-based technologies to aid climate resilient infrastructure. • Investment and insurance sector can promote climate resilience, reducing the risk of damage and securing rates of return.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 4: Solvency-Resilience solves – multiple mechanisms]]**Resilience solves – multiple mechanisms**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">MacArthur et al ‘12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(John MacArthur Sustainable Transportation Program Manager/Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium; Dr. Philip Mote Director, Oregon Climate Change Research Institute/Oregon State University; Dr. Jason Ideker Assistant Professor, School of Civil and Construction Engineering/Oregon State University; Dr. Miguel Figliozzi Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering /Portland State University; Dr. Ming Lee Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering/University of Alaska, Fairbanks “Climate Change Impact Assessment for Surface Transportation in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska” January 2012)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Most adaptation strategies aim to make infrastructure more durable or sustainable on a system level. Very few strategies attempt to use innovative construction materials, although that is the subject of continuing research. Adaptation approaches to climate change impacts need to be region-specific. Various areas will experience different climate change effects, over different timeframes, and have different levels of associated risk. Some adaptation approaches include extending timeframes of the planning and design analysis and retrofitting existing structures to increase their resilience. In many regions, land use policies may need to be revisited in order to restrict development in higher-risk areas. Planners must also consider the likely cost of feasible adaptation alternatives. Each alternative has an associated cost that must be considered in comparing response options and prioritizing among competing risks located elsewhere within the system. Finally, the planning process might need to be more flexible to allow different outcomes and design life of infrastructure to be evaluated to ensure alternatives and solutions fit the context of the project. There are three general adaptation alternatives (Parry et al., 2007):¶ 1. Avoidance – Planning new facilities or rerouting existing facilities outside of hazard areas. An example includes construction of a bypass around a landslideprone area.¶ 2. Protection – Improvements to existing facilities to increase their resilience or adaptive capacity to climate change impacts. Examples include increased height of sea walls, landslide fencing and monitoring, or bridge designs that are modified from current standards. Standards and criteria should be continually evaluated or modified based on the newest climate research.¶ 3. Abandonment – Abandonment or closure of a facility may be the most cost-effective solution if avoidance or protection alternatives are infeasible.¶ Examples include closure of landslide-prone segments. A fourth adaptation response could include operational responses such as ongoing maintenance and incident response (including temporary or seasonal closure and messaging services to the traveling public). This alternative would factor in the ongoing cost of repair and incident response based on the projected frequency of events. For vulnerabilities with minimal impact and/or low likelihood of occurrence, or for assets with short lifespan (e.g., pavement) this approach may be an optimal response (Kinsella, 2005). Examples include a planned detour route in response to periodic flooding of a roadway. The City of Portland has such a plan established (including sandbag locations) for the Johnson Creek area, which is known to flood periodically. In many cases, adaptation planning options are not unique to issues of climate change. For many agencies these are good business practices to emergency response, maintenance and asset management. Agencies need to integrate the issues, language and potential impacts of climate change into existing agency and business structures and practices.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 4: Solvency-Resilient infrastructure is key to avert trade collapse]]**Resilient infrastructure is key to avert trade collapse**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ganapathy ‘11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(“Disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports – An overview” Madhusudan.C 1 , Ganapathy.G.P 21Research Scholar, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University, Vellore 632014 Professor, Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University,Vellore 632014; INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GEOMATICS AND GEOSCIENCES</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Volume 2, No 2, 2011http://www.ipublishing.co.in/jggsvol1no12010/voltwo/EIJGGS3037.pdf)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We are living in the age of disasters. The more we advance, the greater is the impact of each disaster on our society and the more it becomes necessary for us to build resilience into our communities and infrastructure. We cannot avert most disasters. We can, however, be prepared for them to minimize their impact and return to normalcy within the shortest possible time after a disaster with the help of as little external resources as possible. This is what a resilient society strives for. Transportation be it road, rail, air or water – is the lifeline of our society. Serious disruption to transportation infrastructure can have catastrophic impact on the ability of the community, business and economy to recover from a disaster. Hence it is of utmost importance for researchers to address the issue of building resilient transportation infrastructures. Today, more than three quarters of world trade by volume is carried on ships. Hence ports play a very critical role in the overall transportation infrastructure. If port activity is disrupted due to any reason, it will have a direct adverse impact on not only the other transportation functions but also the nation’s economy as a whole.This was amply demonstrated by the impact of the 1995 earthquake on Kobe port in Japan. Disasters know no boundaries. Disaster research too has no boundaries. The multidisciplinary nature of disaster research complicates holistic studies of disasters and also calls for awareness among researchers in diverse disciplines on current research trends across disciplines. To this end, we undertook a literature review in the critical area of disaster resilience of transportation infrastructure and ports, which is not currently available.</span>




====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Yale 1AC--Contention 4: Solvency-Only federal leadership solves coordination]]**Only federal leadership solves coordination**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Smith et al ’10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (March 2010, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Terri L Cruce, Stephen Seidel, and Heather A. Hollsinger, Rockfeller Foundation, Pew Science Center Global Climate Change “Adapting to Climate Change: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A Call for Federal Leadership”[[http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While many adaptations will occur at the state and local levels, the federal government is a critical ¶ player in an effective and coordinated approach to climate change adaptation in the United States. The federal ¶ government is significant for four primary reasons discussed in more detail in a later section: it owns and manages ¶ a significant number of assets and natural resources; its programs affect the ability of others to adapt; it is an ¶ important provider of technical, fiscal, and other support; and it plays a crucial role in dealing with impacts that ¶ cross geographic or jurisdictional boundaries. ¶ Some municipalities, states, federal agencies, and others have already recognized the importance ¶ of addressing climate impacts by initiating climate adaptation plans, commissioning impact or vulnerability ¶ assessments, or enacting “no regrets” adaptation actions¶ 2¶ that improve their communities’ climate resilience. ¶ Such efforts are making initial strides in tackling adaptation needs, but a dedicated and appropriately focused ¶ national program is needed to address the multiple institutions, sectors, and levels of government involved in ¶ adaptation as well as the complexity, magnitude, and long time horizon of many climate impacts.</span>

=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===T-Transportation Infrastructure=== 
<span class="s1">**Transportation infrastructure is highways, roads, bridges, intermodal transit, inland waterways, ports, aviation, and rail systems.** </span>
<span class="s1">**Congress ‘11**</span>
<span class="s1">[The US House of Representatives – the 112</span><span class="s2">th</span><span class="s1"> Congress of the United States. “HR 402 – National Infrastructure Development Bank Act of 2011” 1/24/11 <span class="s3">[[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/hr402/text//Cal-JV|http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/hr402/text]]</span><span class="s4">[[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/hr402/text//Cal-JV|//Cal-JV]]</span>] </span>
<span class="s5">(25) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT- </span><span class="s6">**The term ‘transportation infrastructure**</span><span class="s5"> project’ </span><span class="s6">**means any project for the construction, maintenance, or enhancement of highways, roads, bridges, transit and intermodal systems, inland waterways, commercial ports, airports, high speed rail and freight rail systems**</span><span class="s5">.</span>

===<span class="s5">Substantial</span>=== 
<span class="s1">**Interpretation—a substantial investment is over 20%**</span>
<span class="s1">**Traficant et. al 89** – former member of US House of Representatives(James, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489:)</span>
<span class="s1">(</span><span class="s2">C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED- The term `substantial investment' means any amount which--</span>
<span class="s1">`(i) was added to the capital account for an existing facility during the 3-year period ending on the last day of any taxable year with respect to which such facility is a tax holiday plant, and</span>
<span class="s1">`(ii) </span><span class="s2">caused the sum of all amounts added to such account during such period to exceed 20 percent of the total value of such facility</span><span class="s1"> (determined in the manner provided in subparagraph (B)(ii)) on the first day of such period.</span>
<span class="s1">**Current transportation infrastructure spending is $48.1 billion**</span>
<span class="s1">**GAO 11** – Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600)</span>
<span class="s2">This report responds to two GAO mandates under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act). It is the latest report on the uses of and accountability for Recovery Act funds in selected states and localities, focusing on the $48.1 billion provided to the Department of Transportation (DOT) to invest in transportation infrastructure.</span><span class="s1"> This report also examines the quality of recipients' reports about the jobs created and retained with Recovery Act transportation funds. This report addresses the (1) status, use, and outcomes of Recovery Act transportation funding nationwide and in selected states; (2) actions taken by federal, state, and other agencies to monitor and ensure accountability for those funds; (3) changes in the quality of jobs data reported by Recovery Act recipients of transportation funds over time; and (4) challenges faced and lessons learned from DOT and recipients. GAO analyzed DOT and recipient reported data; reviewed federal legislation, guidance, and reports; reviewed prior work and other studies; and interviewed DOT, state, and local officials.</span>

===T-Direct=== 
<span class="s1">**Interpretation—“Infrastructure investment” requires spending**</span>
<span class="s1">**CBO 8** (Congressional Budget Office, “Issues and Options in Infrastructure Investment”, http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/91xx/doc9135/05-16-infrastructure.pdf)</span>
<span class="s1">Current Spending on Infrastructure</span>
<span class="s2">**Under any definition, “infrastructure investment” encompasses spending on a variety of projects**</span><span class="s1">. For present purposes, it is useful to distinguish transportation, which receives the bulk of federal support, from other types of infrastructure, such as utilities. Both types of assets promote other economic activities: An adequate road, for example, facilitates the transport of goods from one place to another and thereby promotes economic activity; utilities that provide such services as electricity, telecommunications, and waste disposal are also essential to modern economies. (Appendix A describes spending on research and development and on education. Those categories form the basis for supporting intellectual and human capital, respectively, and can provide benefits that are similar to those generated by infrastructure spending.)</span>
==<span class="s1">Case</span>== 
===AT: Peak Oil=== 
====Peak oil predictions wrong – production will increase==== 
**Monboit 7-7-12**
(George, Guardian News & Media, Gulf News,“We were Wrong on Peak Oil”, July 7th, 2012, [[http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/we-were-wrong-on-peak-oil-1.1045786]]) CM
The facts have changed, now we must change too. For the past 10 years, an unlikely coalition of geologists, oil drillers, bankers, military strategists and environmentalists has been warning that peak oil and the decline of global supplies are just around the corner. We had some strong reasons for believing so: Production had slowed, price had risen sharply, depletion was widespread and appeared to be escalating. The first of the great resource crunches seemed about to strike. Among environmentalists, it was never clear, even to ourselves, whether or not we wanted it to happen. It had the potential both to shock the world into economic transformation, averting future catastrophes, and to generate catastrophes of its own, including a shift into even more damaging technologies, such as biofuels and petrol made from coal. Even so, peak oil was a powerful lever. Governments, businesses and voters who seemed impervious to the moral case for cutting the use of fossil fuels might, we hoped, respond to the economic case. Some of us made vague predictions, others were more specific. **In all cases we were wrong**. In 1975, M.K. Hubbert, a geoscientist working for Shell who had correctly predicted the decline in US oil production, suggested that global supplies could peak in 1995. In 1997, the petroleum geologist, Colin Campbell, estimated that it would happen before 2010. In 2003, the geophysicist Kenneth Deffeyes said he was “99 per cent confident” that peak oil would occur in 2004. In 2004, the Texas tycoon, T. Boone Pickens, predicted that “never again will we pump more than 82 million barrels” per day of liquid fuel. (Average daily supply in May 2012 was 91 million.) In 2005, the investment banker, Matthew Simmons, maintained that “Saudi Arabia cannot materially grow its oil production”. (Since then, its output has risen from 9 million barrels a day to 10 million, and it has another 1.5 million in spare capacity.) Peak oil has not happened and it is unlikely to happen for a very long time. A report by the oil executive, Leonardo Maugeri, published by Harvard University, provides compelling evidence that a new oil boom has begun. The constraints on oil supply over the past 10 years appear to have had more to do with money than geology. The low prices before 2003 had discouraged investors from developing difficult fields. The high prices of the past few years have changed that. Maugeri’s analysis of projects in 23 countries suggests that global oil supplies are likely to rise by a net 17 million barrels per day (to 110 million) by 2020. This, he says, is “the largest potential addition to the world’s oil supply capacity since the 1980s”. The investments required to make this boom happen depend on a long-term price of $70 (Dh257.46) a barrel. The current cost of Brent crude is $95. Money is now flooding into new oil: A trillion dollars has been spent in the past two years; a record $600 billion is lined up for 2012.

==<span class="s1">Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span class="s1">Fiscal Cliff</span>=== 
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Progress made on negotiations—mutual agreements, shifts in GOP approach </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CNN 12/6</span> (Lawmaker Sees Shift in Fiscal Cliff Negotiations <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cnn.com/2012/12/06/politics/fiscal-cliff/index.html]]</span> /£Shen)


WASHINGTON (CNN) -- Both sides agree the wealthy will pay more, so now fiscal cliff talks come down to how much Republicans can wring out of the White House in return for giving in on taxes.¶ To President Barack Obama, it's all about first locking in additional revenue from raising taxes on high-income owners, an outcome the GOP has long rejected.¶ Republicans led by House Speaker John Boehner want to secure commitments on entitlement reforms and spending cuts opposed by Democrats as part of a broader agreement to reduce the nation's chronic federal deficits and debt.¶ A GOP source told CNN that talks between staff members on both sides resumed Thursday for the first time this week, after Obama and Boehner spoke by phone the day before.¶ Meanwhile, retiring Republican Rep. Steve LaTourette of Ohio told CNN that he sensed a shift in the House GOP approach during a conference meeting Wednesday.¶ "The sense was that there's a growing number of folks in our party that are saying, 'You know what, the president has won this round relative to the rates, but we need to you to sit down and get the second half of the deal and that's the spending,'" LaTourette said.

====Fiscal cliff will pass—Boehner and Obama negotiations ensure success and minimizes disagreement==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">New York Times 12/6</span> (In Talks on a Budget Deal, Boehner and Obama Stand Alone <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/07/us/politics/at-boehners-request-he-and-obama-negotiate-alone.html]]</span> /£Shen)

WASHINGTON — At House Speaker <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/b/john_a_boehner/index.html?inline=nyt-per|John A. Boehner]]</span>’s request, Senate leaders and Representative Nancy Pelosi have been excluded from talks to avert a fiscal crisis, leaving it to Mr. Boehner and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per|President Obama]]</span> alone to find a deal, Congressional aides say.¶ All sides, even the parties excluded, say clearing the negotiating room improves the chance of success. It adds complexity as the two negotiators consult separately with the leaders not in the room. But it also minimizes the number of people who need to say yes to an initial agreement.¶ “This is now the speaker and the president working this through,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat.¶ White House aides and the speaker’s staff, by mutual agreement, have largely shut down public communication about the talks to avert hundreds of billions of dollars in automatic tax increases and spending cuts set to begin in January if no deal can be reached. Both sides said on Thursday that lines of communication remained open.¶ For public consumption, Democrats and Republicans are engaging in an increasingly elaborate show of political theater. Mr. Obama on Thursday went to the home of a middle-income family in the Virginia suburbs of Washington to press for an extension of expiring tax cuts for the middle class — and for the expiration of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/t/taxation/bush_tax_cuts/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|Bush-era tax cuts]]</span> on incomes over $250,000.¶ “Just to be clear, I’m not going to sign any package that somehow prevents the top rate from going up for folks at the top 2 percent,” Mr. Obama said. “But I do remain optimistic that we can get something done.”¶ On Capitol Hill, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, moved Thursday to vote on Mr. Obama’s proposal, in his broader deficit package, to permanently diminish Congress’s control over the federal government’s statutory borrowing limit, assuming that Democrats would break ranks and embarrass the president. Instead, Democratic leaders did a count, found they had 51 solid votes, and took Mr. McConnell up on what Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, called “a positive development.”¶ Mr. McConnell then filibustered his own bill, objecting to a simple-majority vote and saying a change of such magnitude requires the assent of 60 senators.¶ “I do believe we made history on the Senate floor today,” Mr. Durbin said.¶ The government is expected to hit its borrowing limit in late January or early February, and it is an added complication in the deficit talks because some House Republicans say they will demand further spending cuts before they lift the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/topics/reference/timestopics/subjects/n/national_debt_us/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|debt ceiling]]</span>. Mr. Obama has said that any deal on taxes and spending must ensure that there will not be another crisis over the debt ceiling early next year.¶ But the White House on Thursday gave Republicans assurances the president would not employ a potent weapon to get what he wants. Some Democrats, including former President Bill Clinton, have theorized that the Constitution gives the president the authority to raise the debt ceiling unilaterally, citing a clause in the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.loc.gov/rr/program/bib/ourdocs/14thamendment.html|14th Amendment]]</span> guaranteeing that the nation’s debts “shall not be questioned.”



====Any Transportation bill proposed will require political capital==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rubinstein 3-27-12 </span>(Dana, writer for Capital New York, “When is Obama going to have his Eisenhower moment?” [[http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/politics/2012/03/5524547/when-obama-going-have-his-eisenhower-moment]])
At the moment, it can safely be said that building support for increased transportation spending is not the president's top priority, as he heads into a general election with the economy just showing signs of recovery. Infrastructure funding—and what were once packaged as stimulus projects, generally—have taken a back seat to, say, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/03/22/us-usa-campaign-obama-pipeline-idUSBRE82L0UU20120322|the price of gas]]</span> and, by extension, the conspicuously expanded drive for domestic energy resources. The lesson that Obama and the administration seem to have taken from the times they have pushed hard for spending on big transportation-infrastructure projects is that they're a tougher sell than expected, or at least that voters don't necessarily see them as the economic generators they eventually become. So, for example, the president insisted that the federal stimulus act include $8 billion for high-speed rail, but then absorbed a great deal of grief over ensuing allocations, which were criticized as politically motivated. And while spending on less costly projects has been easier for the administration, politically, it has also been less rewarding. For instance, the stimulus included $1.5 billion in funding for so-called TIGER grants, a small pot of money (it was later expanded to $2.6 billion) that’s been sprinkled around the country. They hardly got noticed nationally, other than by transportation advocates, who felt they were too small to make any meaningful change to the physical transportation system itself. (There was a total of $48 billion in stimulus spending on projects around the country, but aside from the high-speed rail component and the TIGER grants, those funds are generally considered to have been inserted at the initiative of Congressional leaders and were not part of a coordinated national transportation strategy.) The reforms that transportation boosters have in mind are, generally speaking, more profound: an ongoing commitment to paying for large capital projects and maintenance of existing infrastructure; sustainable sources of revenue to offset that cost; alterations to the system of incentives that drive commercial and residential growth, and to the metrics that measure the efficiency and cost of moving people around their regions and across the country. “The federal tax code subsidizes some really bad development,” says Andrew Goldberg, managing director of government relations at the American Institute of Architects, which has advocated tax-code reforms. “A lot of the funding goes toward sprawl, toward building where land is cheapest." “I know this isn’t sexy," said Schank, "but he could direct D.O.T. to start doing the research necessary to implement real performance measures and accountability for transportation.” In other words, the administration could lay out a precise vision for how it would like to see the money it controls spent, and support that vision accordingly. The American Society of Engineers says there’s a $3 trillion backlog in surface transportation spending. The United States spends a mere 2.4 percent of its G.D.P. on transportation and water infrastructure, compared to Europe’s 5 percent and China’s 9. Many transportation experts also argue for a significantly higher tax on gas. This is politically difficult, if not impossible, as illustrated by the way Republicans have latched onto currently high gas prices as an argument against Obama, and the president's high-profile response, cheerleading the expansion of domestic oil and gas exploration as a solution. But the fact is gas here is cheap, relatively speaking: Americans are likely at any given time to be paying about half as much for fuel as Europeans. Yet gas-related revenue is where much of the nation’s infrastructure funding comes from. “We’ve got one of the lowest federal gasoline taxes in the world,” said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association. “The other countries that have gasoline taxes as low as ours include Saudi Arabia, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, and Kuwait.” And that’s not the only issue with the gas tax, which is about 18 cents per gallon and which provides much of the funding for the nation's highways and mass transit (New York’s M.T.A. derives some $1 billion from it per year). It's not pegged to inflation, so it provides ever less revenue in real terms. Also, it's a victim of its own success: Today, thanks in part to the fact that the gas tax makes it more expensive to burn fuel, cars are much more fuel-efficient. Less consumption equals less revenue. But while transit-dedicated revenue from gas is going down, the need to spend money on the nation's aging transportation infrastructure is going up. “The interstate system, most of it is already approaching half a century old,” says Yaro. “It’s at the end of its useful life. Big stretches need to be rebuilt and there’s no money to rebuild them, much less create any new capacity in the system." The president, at least rhetorically, recognizes that. He's proposed a half-trillion-dollar, six-year transportation plan. And he’s suggested a $50 billion infrastructure bank that would leverage private funding. As of now, they're still just proposals. “So far he hasn’t really put his political capital behind it because he has other priorities,” said Schank. In this year’s State of the Union, the president made a strong argument for infrastructure spending. “During the Great Depression, America built the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate Bridge,” he said. “After World War II, we connected our States with a system of highways. Democratic and Republican administrations invested in great projects that benefited everybody, from the workers who built them to the businesses that still use them today.” “In the next few weeks, I will sign an executive order clearing away the red tape that slows down too many construction projects. "But you need to fund these projects. Take the money we're no longer spending at war, use half of it to pay down our debt, and use the rest to do some nation-building right here at home.” The “you” in that sentence was Congress. But the Republican-controlled House is looking to cut transportation spending, not increase it. It will be all the president can do to get them to agree to pass the Senate's version of this year's transportation-spending bill, which more or less extends the status quo.
====An Obama victory on taxes is the only way to avoid the cliff==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Irwin</span>, economics writer for the Washington Post, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">11/9</span>/2012
(Neil, “‘Fiscal cliff’ talks will boil down to one obscure acronym: Batna,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/fiscal-cliff-talks-will-boil-down-to-one-obscure-acronym-batna/2012/11/09/459b0c34-2a7b-11e2-b4e0-346287b7e56c_print.html)
There is one word that a person needs to understand in order to grasp what will happen in the standoff over the “fiscal cliff,” the high-stakes standoff between Congress and President Obama to avert steep tax increases and spending cuts on Jan. 1.
That word is “__Batna__.”
It __comes from negotiation theory__, and is an acronym __for__ “__best alternative to negotiated agreement__.” __It is__, __for each side__, __what happens if there is no deal__. Understanding what the batna is, for Obama and Congressional Republicans (along with other relevant groups, like Senate Democrats and tea party House Republicans) is crucial to predicting how things will shake out.
Think of it this way. In a negotiation over buying a car, it would seem simple to assess what happens for each side if there is no deal. The salesman’s batna is not having the commission income from a successful sale, and the buyer’s batna is having to drive their old car for a bit longer, or keep taking the bus.
But imagine if the salesman has been told he will be fired if he doesn’t get his sales numbers up. Suddenly, his batna is a lot worse; if he doesn’t close the sale, he could lose his job. The buyer doesn’t know that, but the salesman will naturally be more accommodating in the talks, likely resulting in a lower sales price. Or imagine if the buyer is just starting a new job, needs a car to get to work Monday morning, and doesn’t have any time to do comparison shopping; the buyer has a worse batna than it might seem, and will probably be less able to negotiate aggressively and will likely end up with a higher price.
Usually in a negotiation, you don’t know the true batna of the other side, and they have every incentive to keep it a secret; unless the car salesman above is a terrible negotiator, he won’t let the buyer know how desperately he needs the sale. But that typically doesn’t matter too much; __each side will negotiate as aggressively as it can given its own understanding of the alternatives, and whichever one has a better batna has the edge__.
The fiscal cliff negotiations are an infinitely more complex set of negotiations with infinitely higher stakes. But the same principles apply. President Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) each have a batna, even if they don’t use that term — a sense of what the world would look like if there were no deal. They also have no incentive to tell anyone what it is outside their very inner circle. But we can try to read between the lines of their public statements and look at the economics of the cliff and draw some conclusions.
If the nation goes off the fiscal cliff — the Bush tax cuts go away in their entirety, pushing up rates for essentially everyone, and there are steep cuts to a range of government programs, including defense — there would likely be a recession in the first half of 2013, according to numbers from the Congressional Budget Office, as government austerity of about 4 percent of U.S. GDP drives a contraction in economic growth.
So for President Obama, the batna is a nasty recession to start his second term, which is not what any president wants. On the other hand, he has won reelection and will never have to face voters again. He and his team view the present-day Republican Party as intransigent and unwilling to be a responsible party in governing. If Obama sticks to his guns with the politically popular idea of ending tax cuts for households making over $250,000 while keeping them for everyone else, and Republicans refuse to go along, going over the cliff may be the only way to force more accommodation from members of the House. It is a simple negotiating position: Either pass a bill that keeps tax increases for the affluent, or I will stand by and let taxes go up on everybody, even if it means a recession.
In this arena, he has a few luxuries: __Obama will never run for office again__, __his position on taxes__ for the affluent __is popular__, __and he has four more years for the economy to recover__ from its fiscal-cliff-driven downturn __and__ help __secure his legacy__.
The idea of the taxes is the key to Obama victory
====Global depression==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sullivan, 11/9</span>
(Andrew, The Daily Dish, “Now, Govern,” http://andrewsullivan.thedailybeast.com/2012/11/now-govern.html)

I'm as amazed as everyone else by the results on Tuesday night, and they're still sinking in. The new America won; and the 1980s lost. Not everything can be solved by cutting taxes and dropping bombs, a majority of Americans have resolved; the Great Recession was not an ordinary one; the way forward not as glib or as easy for the right as Mr Iraq War would have you believe. But it would be a huge error, it seems to me, if the president decided to bask in his stunning victory, rather than seeing it as a precious moment for the expenditure of political capital. We are facing automatic massive tax hikes and huge, crude spending cuts starting January 1 if we cannot get a bipartisan deal on Bowles-Simpson lines (of course there is room for tweaking and bargaining). A failure to get that kind of deal would tip the US and the world into a new global depression. We need to think of the fiscal cliff as we did the Super Storm Sandy. It's unlike anything we have encountered in recent times. But when Chris Christie threw partisanship to the literal winds and embraced the president in an emergency (and vice-versa), we saw a glimpse of what can happen, of what Obama actually promised all along he could bring about, and what he has yet failed to do. His re-election has re-capitalized him. He should use that capital, it seems to me, immediately, when it is at its peak. There are obvious contours for a deal: the parameters that both the president and the Speaker came close to in the summer of 2011. The Speaker has publicly reiterated that he is open to new revenues; the president has said he is aware of the need to cut the cost of entitlements in the future. The cost-controls in the ACA may help, and should be aggressively tested, but we have no more proof of their success than we did when Bush promised that huge tax cuts would generate growth and employment for the middle class. That's why they had a sunset on them. Some kind of premium support option or later retirement age are by no means unreasonable complements to innovative rethinking of healthcare, given the exponential growth of spending on everything we now call "health."
With Fiscal threat of global depression will uprupt, causing global problems
Extinction
Kemp 10
Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4

The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first scenario; everything that can go wrong does go wrong. The world economic situation weakens rather than strengthens, and India, China, and Japan suffer a major reduction in their growth rates, further weakening the global economy. As a result, energy demand falls and the price of fossil fuels plummets, leading to a financial crisis for the energy-producing states, which are forced to cut back dramatically on expansion programs and social welfare. That in turn leads to political unrest: and nurtures different radical groups, including, but not limited to, Islamic extremists. The internal stability of some countries is challenged, and there are more “failed states.” Most serious is the collapse of the democratic government in Pakistan and its takeover by Muslim extremists, who then take possession of a large number of nuclear weapons. The danger of war between India and Pakistan increases significantly. Iran, always worried about an extremist Pakistan, expands and weaponizes its nuclear program. That further enhances nuclear proliferation in the Middle East, with Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Egypt joining Israel and Iran as nuclear states. Under these circumstances, the potential for nuclear terrorism increases, and the possibility of a nuclear terrorist attack in either the Western world or in the oil-producing states may lead to a further devastating collapse of the world economic market, with a tsunami-like impact on stability. In this scenario, major disruptions can be expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet’s population.

===<span class="s1">Immigration Reform</span>=== 
====Comprehensive immigration reform will pass now – it is a breeze compared to fiscal cliff==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Atlantic Wire, on 1-2</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[http://news.yahoo.com/obamas-push-immigration-reform-starts-now-015245817.html</span>
With a fiscal cliff deal (sort of) sealed, it would appear it's immigration time, and details about how the president will handle the challenge are trickling out. Stein and Foley say that California congresswoman Zoe Lofgren will lead the Democratic effort in the House and pushes back at the idea that House Speaker John Boehner will be able to stonewall the effort. "In the end, immigration reform is going to depend very much on whether Speaker Boehner wants to do it or not," she said. Democrats will inevitably have to navigate more than Boehner's will, but some say that the challenge of the fiscal cliff has Capitol Hill ready for some easier negotiations. Or as one pro-immigration reform executive told HuffPost, "The chance to legislate through regular order on immigration reform might have leaders in both parties working together and singing 'Kumbaya.'"
====And, Obama must make substantial investment to get immigration reform passed==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dallas morning News on 1-2</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece</span>
President Barack Obama said all the right things Sunday about immigration reform. The president told NBC’s Meet the Press that he is serious about getting Congress to overhaul the laws governing immigrants. He even declared that he will introduce an immigration bill this year.¶ This newspaper welcomes \that announcement. Texans particularly understand the unique challenges that an outdated immigration system presents. Even though the flow of illegal immigrants into the U.S. has subsided in the last few years, the many holes in the system leave families, schools, businesses and law enforcement struggling. And those are just some of the constituents challenged by flawed immigration laws.¶ The president’s words to NBC’s David Gregory are only that — words. What will really matter is whether he puts his muscle into the task this year.¶ We suggest that Obama start by looking at the example of former President George W. Bush. Back in 2006 and 2007, the Republican and his administration constantly worked Capitol Hill to pass a comprehensive plan. They failed, largely because Senate Republicans balked. But the opposition didn’t stop the Bush White House from fully engaging Congress, including recalcitrant Republicans.¶ Obama may have a similar problem with his own party. The dirty little secret in the 2006 and 2007 immigration battles was that some Democrats were content to let Senate Republicans kill the effort. Labor-friendly Democrats didn’t want a bill, either.¶ And they may not want one this year. That reluctance is a major reason the president needs to invest in this fight. He must figure out how to bring enough Democrats along, while also reaching out to Republicans.¶ In short, the nation doesn’t need a repeat of the process through which the 2010 health care legislation was passed. Very few Republicans bought into the president’s plan, leaving the Affordable Care Act open to partisan sniping throughout last year’s election. If the nation is going to create a saner immigration system, both parties need to support substantial parts of an answer.¶ The new system must include a guest worker program for future immigrants and a way for illegal immigrants already living here to legalize their status over time. Some House Republicans will object to one or both of those reforms, so Speaker John Boehner must be persuasive about the need for a wholesale change.¶ But the leadership that matters most will come from the White House. The president has staked out the right position. Now he needs to present a bill and fight this year for a comprehensive solution. Nothing but action will count.¶ HE SAID IT …¶ “I’ve said that fixing our broken immigration system is a top priority. I will introduce legislation in the first year [of the second term] to get that done. I think we have talked about it long enough. We know how we can fix it. We can do it in a comprehensive way that the American people support. That’s something we should get done.”¶ President Barack Obama, in an interview on Meet the Press Sunday
====B. Transportation spending drains political capital==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bowman 1/2,</span> Robert J. Bowman, senior editor of SupplyChainBrain and more than 20 years’ experience writing about infrastructure, logistics, and trade, SupplyChainBrain is the blog for the Global Logistics and Supply Chain Strategies Center, citing the President and chief executive officer of the Eno Center for Transportation, “Transportation Funding 2: Gridlock on the congressional Gridiron,” January 2nd, 2013, SupplyChainBrain, http://www.supplychainbrain.com/content/blogs/think-tank/blog/article/transport-funding-2-gridlock-on-the-congressional-gridiron-1/
The holidays are supposed to be a time of joy, but given the state of the economy and other recent events, it’s hard to feel positive about much of anything right now – least of all the outlook for transportation policy reform. So why is Joshua Schank, president and chief executive officer of the Eno Center for Transportation, “more optimistic than I have been in a long time” about the prospects for funding critical infrastructure improvements? Maybe it’s because people function best in a crisis. “The opportunity for government to make a deal of some kind around the deficit is greater than it has been in the last two years by far,” says Schank. “Both parties agree that this is the priority issue that needs to be tackled.” And in the course of that tackling, he adds, transportation policy will definitely be on the field. Granted, the political posturing that brought us to the edge of the “fiscal cliff” is hardly a sign of best intentions. And Schank believes that some of the biggest decisions on spending cuts will be put off until this year. Apparently congressional coaches favor punting over tackling. Still, rhetoric and ideology seem to be slowly giving way to reality – specifically, the need for some kind of tax increase, coupled with serious spending cuts, to clean up the budget mess. President Obama’s reelection means that a solution based partly on higher taxes will be part of any deal. “If that happens,” says Schank, “then transportation stands to gain – most likely with bipartisan support.” Just how soon that sector gets Congress and the Administration’s full attention is another question. Lawmakers can’t deal with every aspect of the massive federal budget deficit at once. And transportation, tied as it is to the federal gas tax and the Highway Trust Fund (HTF), is a painfully complex issue that wins legislators few political points for solving. (Unless, of course, it leads to massive construction projects in their home states.) Finally, with the passage in 2012 of the two-year funding measure known as MAP-21, Congress might feel that it’s done enough in that area for the time being. “You’ve got to figure out that transportation is later on the list,” Schank says. Much of the lack of progress to date can be chalked up to congressional obstructionism, but President Obama shares some of the blame as well, to the extent that he put off dealing squarely with transportation matters early in his first term. “He talked about transportation,” says Schank, “but he spent political capital on healthcare.” The stimulus of 2008 included some investment in transportation projects, but the question of raising the gas tax to pay for it all was shunted aside. (MAP-21 doesn’t address it.) It’s a question, however, that won’t go away, despite the fact that the tax has held at 18.4 cents per gallon since 1993. And the last boost was more of a move to cut the federal budget deficit than it was a serious bid to fund infrastructure. Things are different today. The HTF is in desperate need of saving. According to Schank, it’s time for Congress and the president to spend some political capital on reauthorizing transportation funding for its own sake. How many more bridges must collapse before the urgency of the issue becomes clear? I’m wondering how optimistic Schank really is, however, when he calls the chances of Washington increasing a tax dedicated solely to transportation “unlikely.” As reasons for his outlook, he cites the bitterly partisan nature of politics today, particularly when it comes to taxation and entitlements. Yet he also wonders whether there isn’t another way to generate the money needed to address our nation’s infrastructure crisis.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Immigration reform helps reduce the threat of domestic terrorism</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Price 08, </span>David Price, North Carolina Representative, Chairman of Homeland Security Appropriations sub-committee, “Price Delivers Major Speech On Homeland Security,” 23 June 2008, [[http://price.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2723&Itemid=100260]]
"Today I will suggest five principal homeland security priorities on which I would advise the next administration to focus. The first is comprehensive immigration reform. This might, at first glance, seem an odd choice as a top priority for the Department of Homeland Security, which – after all – was formed in response to the terrorist threat. But the historic missions of the departmental components did not go away when the Department was formed, and subsuming them under the rubric of combating terrorism is apt to confuse as much as it clarifies. Homeland Security encompasses critical areas of national policy that would demand attention even if 9/11 had not occurred. Immigration, I believe, leads that list. "That is not to say that immigration policy is unrelated to terrorism; control of our borders and knowing who has entered our country – legally or illegally – are directly related to our defense against terrorist threats. Moreover, the intense focus on the broader illegal immigration problem – consisting primarily of an effort to intercept, detain, and deport individuals who illegally cross our borders in search of work and a better life – is distracting the Department's attention and diverting the Department's resources away from the truly dangerous threats and challenges we face. "I want to be clear on that point. The illegal presence of foreign nationals in the United States is a problem, and calls into question our commitment to the integrity of our immigration laws. But we need to put that problem into perspective on two counts: First, the integrity of our immigration laws is compromised primarily by the fact that those laws are grossly unrealistic in relation to our labor market demands. And second, there can be no credible argument that deporting illegal workers should take precedence over efforts to combat smuggling, prevent terrorism, and deport criminal aliens

====Nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hellman 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—professor emeritus of electrical engineering at Stanford University. PhD from Stanford. (Martin, The Odds for Nuclear Armageddon, Spring 2008, http://www.nuclearrisk.org/paper.pdf, AMiles)</span>
The threat of nuclear terrorism looms much larger in the public’s mind than the threat of a full-scale nuclear war, yet this article focuses primarily on the latter. An explanation is therefore in order before proceeding. A terrorist attack involving a nuclear weapon would be a catastrophe of immense proportions: “A 10-kiloton bomb detonated at Grand Central Station on a typical work day would likely kill some half a million people, and inflict over a trillion dollars in direct economic damage. America and its way of life would be changed forever.” [Bunn 2003, pages viii-ix]. The likelihood of such an attack is also significant. Former Secretary of Defense William Perry has estimated the chance of a nuclear terrorist incident within the next decade to be roughly 50 percent [Bunn 2007, page 15]. David Albright, a former weapons inspector in Iraq, estimates those odds at less than one percent, but notes, “We would never accept a situation where the chance of a major nuclear accident like Chernobyl would be anywhere near 1% .... A nuclear terrorism attack is a low-probability event, but we can’t live in a world where it’s anything but extremely low-probability.” [Hegland 2005]. In a survey of 85 national security experts, Senator Richard Lugar found a median estimate of 20 percent for the “probability of an attack involving a nuclear explosion occurring somewhere in the world in the next 10 years,” with 79 percent of the respondents believing “it more likely to be carried out by terrorists” than by a government [Lugar 2005, pp. 14-15]. I support increased efforts to reduce the threat of nuclear terrorism, but that is not inconsistent with the approach of this article. Because terrorism is one of the potential trigger mechanisms for a full-scale nuclear war, the risk analyses proposed herein will include estimating the risk of nuclear terrorism as one component of the overall risk. If that risk, the overall risk, or both are found to be unacceptable, then the proposed remedies would be directed to reduce whichever risk(s) warrant attention. Similar remarks apply to a number of other threats (e.g., nuclear war between the U.S. and China over Taiwan).

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]