[[toc]]
=Contact= 
Aff: ethanmatlin@gmail.com
Neg: tommyd4410@gmail.com



=Affirmative= 
==Bonds== 
===Brazil Version=== 
====1ac hong kong==== 

Advantage one is Hong Kong





Hong Kong-China cooperation is on brink of collapse – economic troubles leads to increased Chinese private economic involvement in Hong Kong – that triggers increased political tensions

Ko, 12 (Vanessa, writer for TIME Magazine, Trouble Down South: Why Hong Kong and Mainland Chinese Aren’t Getting Along,” TIME World, 1/24/12, http://world.time.com/2012/01/24/trouble-down-south-why-hong-kong-and-mainland-chinese-arent-getting-along/#ixzz28HT4lMjP)

The traditional distance between Hong … holding my breath on that.”



The precedent of a strong Hong Kong-China relationship maintains peace between China and Taiwan and sustains Chinese federalism

Lo, 8 (Sonny Shiu-Hing, “The Dynamics of Beijing-Hong Kong Relations: A Model for Taiwan,” Chapter 9, pg. 231, Hong Kong University Press)

From a conflict resolution perspective, the … breakthrough in Taipei-Beijing relationships.


Taiwan war causes extinction

Glaser, 11 — Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University (Charles, “Will China's Rise Lead to War?: Why Realism Does Not Mean Pessimism”, Foreign Affairs, March/April 2011, lexis)

ACCOMMODATION ON TAIWAN? THE PROSPECTS … a general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.




Chinese federalism is key to greater Chinese transparency and democracy

Montinola,Qian, and Weingast 95 (Gabrielle, Department of Political Science, New York University; Yingyi, Department of Economics and Hoover Institution, Stanford University; Barry, Hoover Institution and Department of Political Science, Stanford University, “Federalism, Chinese Style: The Political Basis for Economic Success in China”, October, http://elsa.berkeley.edu/~yqian/93-4.pdf)

The purpose of this paper … thus provide a degree of commitment.


Solves extinction

Parker, 3 (Randall, Political Commentator, “Chinese Government Faulted For Making SARS Outbreak Worse,” Future Pundit, 4/4/03, http://www.futurepundit.com/archives/001104.html)

China is the place where … health of all of humanity.


This new monetary policy causes asset bubbles in Asia – that damages Hong Kong’s economy

Harjani, 9/14 (Ansuya, Assistant Producer, CNBC Asia, Fed’s Liquidity Push Risks Dangerous Side Effects for Asia,” CNBC, 9/14/12, http://www.cnbc.com/id/49028413)

The Federal Reserve’s measures to … Hong Kong jumping over 2.5 percent.





====1ac brazil==== 

Advantage two is Brazil—


Brazil soft power key to peace, democracy, trade and South American stability

Mahmood, 11 (Abba Mahmood, Leadership Newspapers Group, 9/15/11, “Brazil: Emerging Soft Power Of The World”, http://www.leadership.ng/nga/columns/5208/2011/09/15/brazil_emerging_soft_power_world.html)

In the words of Mr. Thomas A. … the countries of the world.


Democracy solves extinction

Diamond, 95 — Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution (Larry, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s”, December 1995, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm)

OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts … and prosperity can be built.



So does free trade

Pazner, 8 (Michael J., Faculty – New York Institute of Finance, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, p. 137-138)

The rise in isolationism and … beginnings of a new world war.




Independently, a weak … Brazilian economy forces nuclear re-arm

Schulz, 2k (Donald E., Ph.D., Chair of Political Science at Cleveland State U., fmr. Research Professor of National Security at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army College, March 200, “The United States and Latin America: Shaping an Elusive Future”, Strategic Studies Institute)

Until recently, the primary U.S. concern … many high-ranking Brazilian officers. 57



Causes Latin American instability

Margolis, 98 (Eric Margolis, foreign affairs editor for Sun Media Newspapers, 10/8/98, “Brazil meltdown is dire threat to U.S. economy”, The Record, Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario)

If Brazil implodes, Argentina, Chile … -- and spread across Latin America.


Extinction

Manwaring, 5 (Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, “Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez, Bolivarian Socialism, and Asymmetric Warfare”, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)

The Issue of State Failure. - … global security, peace, and prosperity.65



Failure to upgrade infrastructure ensures World Cup failure

Gregoire, 11 — principal at Promontory Financial Group LLC, senior advisor at Nexus Infrastructure LLC, former manager at Infrastructure Management Group, Inc., senior consultant at Promontory Financial Group, LLC, MBA from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business, BSBA from Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business (James, “TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE IN BRAZIL AND THE CONSEQUENCES OF DEVELOPMENT FAILURE”, Nexus Infrastructure, transportation consulting firm, February 2011, http://www.nexusinfrastructure.com/files/NexusWP_Brazil.pdf)

Air travel in Brazil has … advance of the 2014 World Cup. 19


The impact is Brazilian soft power collapse

Gregoire, 11 — principal at Promontory Financial Group LLC, senior advisor at Nexus Infrastructure LLC, former manager at Infrastructure Management Group, Inc., senior consultant at Promontory Financial Group, LLC, MBA from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business, BSBA from Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business (James, “TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE IN BRAZIL AND THE CONSEQUENCES OF DEVELOPMENT FAILURE”, Nexus Infrastructure, transportation consulting firm, February 2011, http://www.nexusinfrastructure.com/files/NexusWP_Brazil.pdf)

So what would be the … of the world's top economies.” 87








====1ac plants==== 

Advantage three is plants—


Indo-Pak water war goes nuclear

Bokhari 10 – assistant editor at Dawn (Ashfak, 01/18, “Water dispute and war risk,” http://archives.dawn.com/archives/24980)

In March last year, a group … for a nuclear war,” he said.

Brazilian transportation infrastructure key to breakthrough for global cellulosic ethanol production

Friedman, 7 (George. Founder & CEO, Stratfor. Subscription based provider of geopolitical analysis. http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article1217.html)

This means that if the … would democratize the technology globally.


Cellulosic ethanol production breakthroughs lead to Indian biofuel production

Friedman 7 (George. Founder & CEO, Stratfor. Subscription based provider of geopolitical analysis. http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article1217.html)

Should cellulosic ethanol prove cost-… wherever the feedstock comes from.



India wants to convert to biofuels- they are going to plant jatropha for feedstocks

UPI Energy, 8(“Analysis: New crops … wastelands into oilfields through jatropha."

This solves water shortages in India

Sangam, 7 (Divya. Alt Fuels conference organizer Dec 5. http://www.futureenergyevents.com/jatropha/2007/12/05/is-jatropha-the-win-win-solution-to-water-shortages-arising-from-india-and-china%E2%80%99s-biofuels-ambitions/)

As both China and India … in the planting of Jatropha.




Jatropha solves desertification

Thibault 7, (Oliver, pHD, Molecular and Biomedical Pharmacology @ Kentucky, Greater Use of Biofuels Threatens Rainforests, 4/18,)

Dutch biofuels expert Winfried Rijssenbeek … fight against desertification, Rijssenbeek added.



Extinction

Kepner, 6 — Environmental Contaminant specialist for the Fish and Wildlife (William G., “Desertification in the Mediterranean region: a security issue”, 2006)

Among the more intractable and … outcomes of global environmental change.








====1ac solvency==== 

Now Solvency—



Shift happens immediately—investors will start buying debt in anticipation of Fed purchases

Huffington Post 10 (11/3. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/11/03/federal-reserve-qe2_n_778392.html?view=print&comm_ref=false)

The legendary money manager, who … will be the biggest beneficiaries.



The plan changes the course … balance sheet stays the same

Sack, 9 (Brian, Executive Vice President at the NY Fed, “The Fed's Expanded Balance Sheet,” 12/2/09, http://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/speeches/2009/sac091202.html)

With these purchases, we have a … held projected to reach $2.1 trillion.



Brazil is going to start issuing transportation infrastructure bonds

Reuters, 12 (http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/08/16/cetip-brazil-infrastructure-idINL2E8JG3S320120816)

Brazil's $66 billion plan to boost … so far yielded one issuance.



Their Disads are non-unique

Plumer, 9/13 (Brad Plumer, Washington Post, 9/13/12,“QE3: What is quantitative easing? And will it help the economy?”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/wp/2012/09/13/qe3-what-is-quantitative-easing-and-will-it-help-the-economy/)

On Thursday, the Federal Reserve … after the economic recovery strengthens.”







Only a stable and immediate funding stream for transportation infrastructure through international bond issue jumpstarts Brazil’s economic development

Gregoire, 11 — principal at Promontory Financial Group LLC, senior advisor at Nexus Infrastructure LLC, former manager at Infrastructure Management Group, Inc., senior consultant at Promontory Financial Group, LLC, MBA from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business, BSBA from Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business (James, “TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE IN BRAZIL AND THE CONSEQUENCES OF DEVELOPMENT FAILURE”, Nexus Infrastructure, transportation consulting firm, February 2011, http://www.nexusinfrastructure.com/files/NexusWP_Brazil.pdf)

It is well-documented that … is developed carries great consequences.







====1ac plan text==== 

The United States Federal Reserve Board should substantially increase its Brazilian transportation infrastructure bonds in the United States.







====2ac t-in the united states==== 

1. We meet

Lau, 8/17 (Lawrence. Economist, former vice-chancellor of the Chinese University in Hong Kong. http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/hkedition/2012-08/17/content_15682382.htm)

One possibility is for the… unemployment from becoming too high.)


2. We meet- Brazilian bonds are in the US

EBI, 11 (Easy Brazil Investing 7/7. http://www.easybrazilinvesting.com/fixed-income/199-brazilian-treasury-begins-to-issue-foreign-debt-securities-in-us-in-europe-and-in-the-us.html)

The treasury started issuing Brazilian … banks Santander and Goldman Sachs.




Counter-interpretation— Investment includes bonds

Code of Federal Regulations 12 (10/11. Title 49: Transportation. http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/retrieveECFR?gp=1&SID=be7af8ba3e4993e8fcbb152491495384&h=L&n=49y1.0.1.1.34.0.18.2&r=SECTION&ty=HTML)

Investment-grade rating means a rating … , other than a Federal credit instrument.




Grammar outweighs --- it determines meaning, making it a pre-requisite to predictable ground and limits – and, without it, debate is impossible

Allen 93 (Robert, Editor and Director – The Chambers Dictionary, Does Grammar Matter?)

Grammar matters, then, because it … most people will find acceptable.












===U.S. Version=== 
====Updates==== 



We read this pretty often instead of Posen:

Hegemony promotes cooperation—solves every major threat

Brooks et al 13 (Stephan Brooks Associate professor of Government at Dartmouth .William Ikenberry, Professor of Politics and Internation Affairs at Princeton. William Wohlforth, professor of government at Dartmouth. January 2013. "Lean Forward In Defense of American Engagement." Foreign Affairs. www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/138468/stephen-g-brooks-g-john-ikenberry-and-william-c-wohlforth/lean-forward)

CREATING COOPERATION What goes for … the back of statesmen's minds."


Read triples of Berkeley instead of Harvey and Posen/Brooks:

On the brink of warming, but we still have time

Plumer, 11/30 (Brad Plumer, 11/30/12, “Is there still time left to avoid 2°C of global warming? Yes, but barely.”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2012/11/30/is-there-still-time-left-to-stop-global-warming-yes-but-only-barely/)

Over the years, manynations … to increases in atmospheric carbon.)



Read round two of Berkeley instead of Mazo due to computer issues:

Warming causes extinction

Brandenberg, 99 (Dr.Brandenberg, Physicist (Ph.D.) and Paxson a science writer1999 – John and Monica, Dead Mars Dying Earth p. 232-3)

The ozoneholeexpands,driven … perhaps a few hardy microbes surviving.




====1ac economy==== 

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Advantage one is economic competitiveness—</span>


**Declining transportation infrastructure crushes the U.S. economy – plan is key to jumpstart it**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Donohue, 11</span> (Thomas J., president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Christian Science Monitor, 9/8/11, Factiva)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As Obama and Congress talk … </span>**__jobs in the near term__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

**Independently, declining transportation infrastructure decks __competitiveness__, global __free trade__, and __hegemony__**
**AGC, 11** (The Associated General Contractors of America, “THE CASE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE & REFORM: Why and How the Federal Government Should Continue to Fund Vital Infrastructure in the New Age of Public Austerity,” 5/19/11, http://www.agc.org/galleries/news/Case-for-Infrastructure-Reform.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As important, there is a strong … they can meet those standards.</span>


**Nuclear war**
**Khalilzad, 11** — former United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations, former director of policy planning at the Defense Department (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, The National Review, 2/8/2011, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Today, </span>__economic__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and fiscal </span>__trends …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__dangerous era of multi-polarity__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>



**Nationalism makes conflict likely to escalate—only leadership solves**
**Kagan, 7** (Robert, Senior Associate – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History: International Rivalry and American Leadership”, Policy Review, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The jostling for status and … </span>__back in__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> under unfavorable circumstances. </span>



**Statistics and empirics prove**
**Barnett, 11** (Thomas, P.M. Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College, American military geostrategist, Chief Analyst at Wikistrat, worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads”, 3/7/2011, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Events in Libya are a further … in the geometry to come.</span>

**The economy is __on the brink__ now—U.S. economic well-being and leadership is __critical__**
**Suominen, 12** <span style="color: #222222;">(Kati Suominen, resident fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States in Washington, 7/6/12,, “America the Absent Why is the U.S. afraid to lead the global economic recovery?,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=0,1%29GANGEEZY|http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=0,1)]]</span></span>
__The release of another weak__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> U.S. </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> annually to the postwar U.S. economy.</span>


**Extinction**
**Auslin, 9**<span style="color: #000000;"> – resident scholar at AEI</span> (Michael, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3/6/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">What do these trends mean … </span>__that coalesce into a big bang__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>


**Empirics and statistics prove**
**Royal, 10** — Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises?”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215, 2010)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Less intuitive is how </span>__periods …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Growth __eliminates__ the rational incentives for war</span>**
**Gartzke, 11** — associate professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego, Ph.D. from Iowa and B.A. from University of California, San Francisco (Erik, “SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD”, Cato Institute, 2/9/2011, <span style="color: #000000;">www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Almost as informative as the … , that war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>

**The alternative to American growth is mercantilism and protectionism**
**Posen, 9** – Ph.D., Senior Fellow, Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, 2009, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” //Global Power Revisited//, pp. 11-14, http://www.alfred-herrhausen-gesellschaft.de/downloads/FS_USA_09_GlobalPowerRevisited.pdf)
__Though the relative rise of …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">on the following priority measures.</span>










====1ac clean tech==== 

**Advantage two is clean tech**

**Action is key to spur lending—solves the economy**
**Gagnon, 11** (Joe, visiting associate director at the Division of Monetary Affairs at the US Federal Reserve Board, PhD in economics from Stanford, “Interview with Joe Gagnon on Quantitative Easing, its Criticisms and the Argument for QE3”, 6/14/11, http://rortybomb.wordpress.com/2011/06/14/interview-with-joe-gagnon-on-quantitative-easing-its-criticisms-and-the-argument-for-qe3/)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since the Federal … addressing Richard Koo’s concerns.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">That’s key to clean tech leadership and solving warming</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cogan, 8</span> (Doug, leader of RiskMetrics’ Climate Change Research Team and expert in investment responses to climate change, “Corporate Governance and Climate Change: The Banking Sector”, Ceres, January 2008, [[http://www.ceres.org/resources/reports/corporate-governance-banking-sector%29/MG|http://www.ceres.org/resources/reports/corporate-governance-banking-sector)]]
Banks are the backbone of … <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in carbon-intensive energy technologies.</span>



**Clean tech solves warming—modeled globally**
**Zervos & Coequyt 7**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - European Renewable Energy Council & Climate & Energy Unit @ Greenpeace </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Arthouros, and John, Climate &, “Increasing Renewable Energy in U.S. Can Solve Global Warming”, 1-24, http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/rea/news/infocus/story?id=47208</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The good news first. </span>__Renewable …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">impact on the global climate.</span>


**Emissions are reversible but the window is closing.**
**Harvey, 11** (Fiona Harvey is an environmental correspondent for Guardian, “World headed for irreversible climate change in five years, IEA warns,” 11/9/2011, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/nov/09/fossil-fuel-infrastructure-climate-change)
__The world is likely to …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">be closed forever," said Birol.</span>


**Clean tech solves warming—modeled globally**
**Zervos & Coequyt 7**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - European Renewable Energy Council & Climate & Energy Unit @ Greenpeace </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Arthouros, and John, Climate &, “Increasing Renewable Energy in U.S. Can Solve Global Warming”, 1-24, http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/rea/news/infocus/story?id=47208</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The good news first. </span>__Renewable …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">impact on the global climate.</span>


**Emissions are reversible but the window is closing.**
**Harvey, 11** (Fiona Harvey is an environmental correspondent for Guardian, “World headed for irreversible climate change in five years, IEA warns,” 11/9/2011, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/nov/09/fossil-fuel-infrastructure-climate-change)
__The world is likely to …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">be closed forever," said Birol.</span>


**Warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Anderegg et al 10</span> – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature … </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">forums regarding anthropogenic climate change</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Global warming is real, and anthropogenic causes population migrations fueling political instability that escalates to nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kaku, 11 (</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Michio Kaku, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">By midcentury, the full impact … </span>__a runaway cycle of global warming.__


**Warming is the only existential risk**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mazo 10 </span>– PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The best estimates for global … </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">social, cultural and political changes</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**Carbon emissions cause extinction.**
**Romm, 12** (Joe Romm is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/2012, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogre)
__The world’s oceans may be … for reef and shell-building.__


<span style="line-height: 115%;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Only the plan’s technology solves</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; line-height: 115%; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Soule, 95 </span><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 115%; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">(Professor of Environmental Studies</span> </span>Michael E., Professor and Chair of Environmental Studies, UC-Santa Cruz, REINVITING NATURE? RESPONSES TO POSTMODERN DECONSTRUCTION, Eds: Michael E. Soule and Gary Lease, p. 159-160)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Should We Actively Manage Wildlands … we look for ethical guidance? </span>






====1ac solvency==== 


**Buying transportation bonds is the __only avenue__ for economic recovery and is __distinct__ from previous efforts**
**Lau, 12** (Lawrence, economist, former vice-chancellor of the Chinese University in Hong Kong, 8/17/12, “What should the Fed do to jump-start US economy?,” <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/hkedition/2012-08/17/content_15682382.htm]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While the US economy is … wishes the Fed every success!</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">No risk of their economy turns</span>**
**Baker, 10** (Dean, Co-director, Center for Economic Policy and Research, “Feel No Pain: Why a Deficit In Times of High Unemployment Is Not a Burden,” September 2010, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.cepr.net/documents/publications/deficits-2010-9.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This dropoff is shown in … </span>**__unemployed labor and idle resources__**__.__


**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The plan sends an __immediate__ and __unconditional__ signal that is __critical__ to boosting financial markets – only the Fed solves</span>**
**Hayo, et al., 12** (Bernd, economics professor at the University of Essen, Ali Kutan, Professor of Economics and Finance at Southern Illinois University, Matthias Neuenkirch, professor of economics at Philipps University in Germany, “Federal Reserve Communications and Emerging Equity Markets,” Southern Economic Journal, Volume 78, Issue 3, January 2012, Proquest)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Our results have important implications … </span>U.S. monetary policy actions and communications.



====1ac plan text==== 

The United States Federal Reserve Board should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.





====1ac qe==== 

**Advantage one is quantitative easing**

**The status quo is failing— buying transportation bonds is the __only avenue__ for economic recovery and increased lending and is __distinct__ from previous efforts**
**Lau, 12** (Lawrence, economist, former vice-chancellor of the Chinese University in Hong Kong, 8/17/12, “What should the Fed do to jump-start US economy?,” <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/hkedition/2012-08/17/content_15682382.htm]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While the US economy is … wishes the Fed every success!</span>

**The economy is __on the …__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">annually to the postwar U.S. economy.</span>


**Extinction**
**Auslin, 9**<span style="color: #000000;"> – resident scholar at AEI</span> (Michael, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3/6/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">What do these trends mean … </span>__that coalesce into a big bang__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>


**Empirics and statistics prove**
**Royal, 10** — Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises?”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215, 2010)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Less intuitive is how </span>__periods …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>


**Growth __eliminates__ the rational incentives for war**
**Gartzke, 11** — associate professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego, Ph.D. from Iowa and B.A. from University of California, San Francisco (Erik, “SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD”, Cato Institute, 2/9/2011, <span style="color: #000000;">www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Almost as informative as the … , that war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>



**The aff also resolves the __liquidity trap__ and __bank lending__**
**Greider, 12** (William, National Affairs Correspondent at The Nation, “Can the Federal Reserve Help Prevent a Second Recession?,” The Nation, 11/7/12, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thenation.com/article/171126/can-federal-reserve-help-prevent-second-recession?page=full</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Despite what you may have … of low-yielding US Treasuries. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">That’s key to solving warming</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cogan, 8</span><span class="Underline"> (Doug, leader of RiskMetrics’ Climate Change Research Team and expert in investment responses to climate change, “Corporate Governance and Climate Change: The Banking Sector”, Ceres, January 2008, </span>[[http://www.ceres.org/resources/reports/corporate-governance-banking-sector)/MG|http://www.ceres.org/resources/reports/corporate-governance-banking-sector)]]
Banks are the backbone of … <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in carbon-intensive energy technologies.</span>


**Clean tech solves warming—modeled globally**
**Zervos & Coequyt 7**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - European Renewable Energy Council & Climate & Energy Unit @ Greenpeace </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Arthouros, and John, Climate &, “Increasing Renewable Energy in U.S. Can Solve Global Warming”, 1-24, http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/rea/news/infocus/story?id=47208</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The good news first. </span>__Renewable …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">impact on the global climate.</span>

**Warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Anderegg et al 10</span> – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature … </span><span class="underline0">forums regarding anthropogenic climate change</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Anthropogenic warming causes population migrations that fuel geopolitical instability esclaating to nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kaku, 11 (</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Michio Kaku, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">By midcentury, the full impact … </span>__a runaway cycle of global warming.__


**Warming causes extinction, but it’s not too late—we can still avoid tipping points**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nuccitelli 12 –</span> Dana, environmental scientist at a private environmental consulting firm in Sacramento and has a Bachelor's Degree in astrophysics from the University of California at Berkeley, and a Master's Degree in physics from the University of California at Davis, 2012, “Realistically What Might The Future Climate Look Like?”, http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/09/01/784931/realistically-what-might-the-future-climate-look-like/
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is Why </span>//Reducing Emissions … and must limit the damage.//


**Independently, carbon emissions cause extinction.**
**Romm, 12** (Joe Romm is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/2012, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogre)
__The world’s oceans may be … for reef and shell-building.__


**1% risk outweighs**
**Strom 7** (Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246)
Keep in mind that <span class="Underline">the … </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">time for action is now.</span>


**Only the plan’s technology solves**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Soule, 95 </span>(Professor of Environmental StudiesMichael E., Professor and Chair of Environmental Studies, UC-Santa Cruz, REINVITING NATURE? RESPONSES TO POSTMODERN DECONSTRUCTION, Eds: Michael E. Soule and Gary Lease, p. 159-160)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Should We Actively Manage Wildlands … we look for ethical guidance? </span>




**The plan sends an __immediate__ and unconditional signal to markets – only the Fed solves**
**Hayo, et al., 12** (Bernd, economics professor at the University of Essen, Ali Kutan, Professor of Economics and Finance at Southern Illinois University, Matthias Neuenkirch, professor of economics at Philipps University in Germany, “Federal Reserve Communications and Emerging Equity Markets,” Southern Economic Journal, Volume 78, Issue 3, January 2012, Proquest)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Our results have important implications … </span><span class="Underline">U.S. monetary policy actions and communications.</span>






====1ac military==== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Advantage two is transportation infrastructure</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">It’s failing now—increased delays and a capacity crunch threaten military power</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">USMA, 9</span> (US Maritime Administration, January 2009, “America’s Ports and Intermodal Transportation System”, http://www.mtsnac.org/docs/2009/America%27s%20Ports%20and%20Intermodal%20Transportation%20System%20%28Jan%2009%29.pdf)
__The transportation network …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> surface transportation network. </span>



<span style="font-size: 16px;">The plan is necessary to rapid deployment and mobilization—also solves sealift</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">USMA, 9</span> (US Maritime Administration, January 2009, “America’s Ports and Intermodal Transportation System”, http://www.mtsnac.org/docs/2009/America%27s%20Ports%20and%20Intermodal%20Transportation%20System%20%28Jan%2009%29.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In partnership with … national defense needs.</span>

**Sealift __solves great power war__**
**Conway, et al, 7** (James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower”, October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Deter major power war.</span>__…__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> extended campaigns ashore.</span>

**Improving all transportation infrastructure is critical**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">FHA, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> (Federal Highway Administration, “Introduction to Current Military Deployment Concepts”, March 27th 2009, </span>**http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop05029/chapter_1.htm**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">)</span>**
__The U.S. military …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the public roadways. </span>


**Extinction**
**Brzezinski 12** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Zbigniew, Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, “After America”, Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For </span>if America <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> into global turmoil.</span>



**Nationalism makes conflict likely to escalate—only leadership solves**
**Kagan, 7** (Robert, Senior Associate – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History: International Rivalry and American Leadership”, Policy Review, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The jostling for … under unfavorable circumstances. </span>




**Statistics and empirics prove**
**Barnett, 11** (Thomas, P.M. Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College, American military geostrategist, Chief Analyst at Wikistrat, worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads”, 3/7/2011, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Events in Libya … geometry to come.</span>























=Negative= 


===1nc lng da=== 


The plan bolsters US LNG exports
Ebinger et al. 12 (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)
The successful export of LNG will depend upon the necessary shipping infrastructure and capacity being in place. Cheniere Energy is looking to export up to 2.2 bcf/day of gas from its Sabine Pass LNG terminal in Louisiana. 39 Depending on the size of the LNG vessel, this would require between three and five supertankers per week. In order to accommodate this volume of large ships, some domestic U.S. ports will require additional dredging. Other shipping-related concerns include security of vessels and the adequacy of Coast Guard capacity to provide that security (exporters must meet Coast Guard Waterway Suitability, Security, and Emergency standards prior to approval); and the capacity of sea lanes, particularly to Asia. Increasing shipments to Asia will depend on the capacity of the Panama Canal, which is currently too small to accommodate most LNG tankers. However, after the planned expansion of the canal is completed—expected to be in 2014—roughly 80 percent of the world’s LNG tankers will be able to pass through the isthmus, resulting in a dramatic decline in shipping costs to Asia.

That replaces Russian exports to the EU
Ratner 12 – specialist in energy policy, other authors include ***Paul Belkin, analyst in European affairs,** *Jim Nichol, specialist in Russian and Eurasian affairs, and ***Steven Woehrel, specialist in European Affairs (Michael, “Europe’s Energy Security: Options and Challenges to Natural Gas Supply Diversification,” Congressional Research Service, 3/13/12, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42405.pdf)
The 27 member-state European Union (EU) has been a growing natural gas consumer and importer for decades. However, as Europe’s natural gas production has declined in recent years, its dependence on imported natural gas has increased. This has left it more dependent as a whole on its primary supplier, Russia, which has shown some inclination to use its resources for political ends. Natural gas, unlike oil which is a global commodity, is a regional commodity with regional buyers and sellers exerting more influence. Over the past decade, some European officials have become increasingly concerned about the potential for cutoffs or curtailments of Russian natural gas supplies to Europe. Most Russian natural gas exports to Europe flow through Ukraine and Belarus. Fragile and sometimes hostile relations between Kyiv, Minsk, and Moscow have in the past resulted in interruptions in the flow of natural gas to parts of Europe, as happened in 2006 and 2009. Some countries in Eastern Europe, which are in some cases almost exclusively reliant on Russian gas imports, have been particularly susceptible to these fluctuations. Despite its growing dependence on Russian natural gas, Europe is well positioned geographically to benefit from recent changes in global natural gas development. Since the advent of shale gas in the United States, the world appears to be potentially awash in natural gas. A 2011 study commissioned by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) showed that technically recoverable shale gas resources worldwide may exceed current global natural gas reserves.1Other key developments and possible alternatives to Russian natural gas are outlined below: Taken as a whole, North Africa could pose a credible alternative to Russian natural gas supplies. The change of regimes in Libya, in particular, and in Egypt as a result of the wave of regional unrest known as the “Arab Spring,” poses a potential opportunity to increase natural gas production and exports from these countries. Both Libya and Egypt have large natural gas reserves, but production and exports have been hampered by domestic policies. Algeria, the largest exporter of natural gas in North Africa and the third largest supplier to Europe behind Russia and Norway, may also hold large volumes of shale gas yet to be developed in addition to their substantial conventional reserves. Central Asia may hold the greatest potential for new natural gas supplies for Europe, but currently those supplies would have to transit Russia to arrive in the European market. The delays in developing a southern corridor natural gas pipeline route to Europe have forced Central Asian countries to look east instead of west to bypass Russia and open new markets.2 Liquefied natural gas (LNG) imports pose an additional alternative to Russian natural gas. In 2010, LNG comprised almost 20% of the EU’s natural gas imports and over 15% of its consumption. The EU has LNG import capacity to meet its peak winter demand for natural gas, but during most of the year the facilities are underutilized. Nevertheless, some countries are considering building additional LNG import terminals to diversify their sources of natural gas. In addition to LNG import terminals, the EU could benefit from increased natural gas storage facilities in order to manage their import capacity during non-peak periods, as well as more pipeline interconnections to move natural gas where it is needed. EU officials have identified both improvements as priorities and they are being pursued, but not without some difficulty. The prospect of significant U.S. LNG exports may pose an opportunity for the United States to play a bigger role in European energy security and global natural gas markets. 3 Most of the proposed U.S. LNG export projects are located on the Gulf coast or east coast of the United States, making shipments, at least initially, more likely to go to Europe than Asia. Additionally, the U.S. natural gas market is one of the only markets in the world where natural gas is not priced against oil, giving it a cost advantage in most of Europe. Should future U.S. LNG contracts not include an oil-indexed formula, pressure would be added for other countries, including Russia, to follow suit. Russian companies, including state-controlled natural gas giant Gazprom, have adamantly defended oil-indexed natural gas prices.

That decimates the Russian economy
Weitz, 11 – senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and a World Politics Review senior editor (Richard, “Can We Manage a Declining Russia?” November, http://www.aei.org/files/2011/12/08/-can-we-manage-a-declining-russia_152701899417.pdf)
Europe is an unavoidable partner. The European market consumes 90% of Russia's total gas exports and 60% of its crude oil, which make up only 25 and 15% of Europe's total demand, respectively. Russia presently does not have any viable alternative markets remotely equal in size to Europe. Dependence is a two-Way phenomenon. "40% of Russian public money” comes from the sale of oil and gas to Europe, and at least 75% of Russian export revenues are linked to the EU's energy market in general. Without any extant alternative markets to exploit in the near-term, Moscow requires European gas revenues to preserve its own financial solubility. Energy overshadows other concerns. Paillard believes that while the energy trade has, in the past, been "part of a game of blackmail, lies and fear" between Europe and Russia, its new status as a "question of life or death for Russian revitalization" and its importance to Europe's economic growth mean that neither side can afford to use gas supplies as leverage in other international concerns. In Paillard's estimation, Brussels and Moscow both regard issues such as human rights or the Chechen conflict as not being worth risking the energy trade over. Therefore, Russian and the European Union are inextricably bound to one another by their mutual dependence on the energy trade. Russia cannot absorb the financial consequences of interrupting the EU revenue stream, while the European Union cannot do without Russian gas supplies. Europe has few alternative suppliers, and cannot develop alternative energy sources in the near term. Russia, meanwhile, is unlikely to be able to diversify its economy or target new markets any better than it has in the past.

Nuclear war
Filger, 9 (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction”, http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)
In Russia, historically, economic health and political stability are intertwined to a degree that is rarely encountered in other major industrialized economies. It was the economic stagnation of the former Soviet Union that led to its political downfall. Similarly, Medvedev and Putin, both intimately acquainted with their nation's history, are unquestionably alarmed at the prospect that Russia's economic crisis will endanger the nation's political stability, achieved at great cost after years of chaos following the demise of the Soviet Union. Already, strikes and protests are occurring among rank and file workers facing unemployment or non-payment of their salaries. Recent polling demonstrates that the once supreme popularity ratings of Putin and Medvedev are eroding rapidly. Beyond the political elites are the financial oligarchs, who have been forced to deleverage, even unloading their yachts and executive jets in a desperate attempt to raise cash. Should the Russian economy deteriorate to the point where economic collapse is not out of the question, the impact will go far beyond the obvious accelerant such an outcome would be for the Global Economic Crisis. There is a geopolitical dimension that is even more relevant then the economic context. Despite its economic vulnerabilities and perceived decline from superpower status, Russia remains one of only two nations on earth with a nuclear arsenal of sufficient scope and capability to destroy the world as we know it. For that reason, it is not only President Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin who will be lying awake at nights over the prospect that a national economic crisis can transform itself into a virulent and destabilizing social and political upheaval. It just may be possible that U.S. President Barack Obama's national security team has already briefed him about the consequences of a major economic meltdown in Russia for the peace of the world. After all, the most recent national intelligence estimates put out by the U.S. intelligence community have already concluded that the Global Economic Crisis represents the greatest national security threat to the United States, due to its facilitating political instability in the world. During the years Boris Yeltsin ruled Russia, security forces responsible for guarding the nation's nuclear arsenal went without pay for months at a time, leading to fears that desperate personnel would illicitly sell nuclear weapons to terrorist organizations. If the current economic crisis in Russia were to deteriorate much further, how secure would the Russian nuclear arsenal remain? It may be that the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.

===1nc qatar cp=== 
Text: The United States federal government should ask Qatar to substantially increase its investment in <> and should provide necessary guidance and non-financial support to ensure implementation.

The counterplan solves the case – channels external investment towards domestic transportation projects
Rediker, 8 [Heidi, Chief Economist State Department of the United States, Financing America’s Infrastructure: Putting Global Capital To Work, http://newamerica.net/files/Financing_America_Infrastructure.PDF]
What is missing is a mechanism for channeling these enormous pools of capital into long-term infrastructure development. We believe that the global bond markets already provide this framework and that the U.S. government should proactively seek to bring together our need for capital with investment entities willing to provide it through the global capital markets. Europe attracts investment to finance its infrastructure development from across the globe— including from central banks, U.S. and foreign pension funds, financial institutions, insurance companies, and other entities—through its large, pooled infrastructure-related debt markets. Addressing the issue of the size and granularity of the U.S. market— thereby attracting a wider group of investors— could be expected to have a positive impact on the 4 Financing America’s Infrastructure What is missing is a mechanism for channeling enormous pools of capital into longterm infrastructure development. overall funding costs for issuers, including those engaged in public infrastructure projects. The pooling of financial assets should not automatically be dismissed as being too financially risky. Rather, we believe that lessons can be learned from the current mortgage and credit crises, from the experiences of other countries (particularly within the EU), and from our own experience with the evolution of the U.S. mortgage market, government- owned and government-sponsored enterprises, and related market entities. Today’s global economic reality requires that we consider the use of financial tools to achieve our public policy goals.

And, the US request bolsters Qatari soft power – Qatar should foot the bill
Mainen, 11 [8/16/2011, Matthew, policy analyst at the Institute for Gulf Affairs. Saudi's Dangerous Role in Syria, Mainen Middle East Analysis, http://mainen.blogspot.com/]
The U.S. should provide democracy assistance through third parties financed by Qatar, such as think tanks. By organizing and financing the endeavor, Qatar, not the United States will be seen as the guiding party. In reality, Western ideology will guide the process. So, for example, say that for the constitutional convention, Qatar foots the bill for hiring a committee of outside advisers, but you will hardly find anyone qualified for this task in Qatar's government! Instead, you'd be looking to Harvard, Yale, former administration officials in the U.S. and other Western countries and leading policy analysts from think tanks like the Council on Foreign Relations. Qatar would take it upon itself to assemble and finance these experts, but will play a very limited role in their actual tasks. This is a win-win for the U.S. and Qatar. Qatar want's nothing more than prestige and out outshine Saudi Arabia. For the U.S., the benefits of having Western oriented thinkers guiding the process while avoiding "direct" involvement is obvious. After all, it's not the U.S. imposing it's will on the Arab world, but merely meeting its request as was the case in Libya.

Transportation infrastructure investment is critical – Qatar says yes and the counterplan facilitates inter linkages that massively increases regional influence
Likosky, 10 [“Obama's Bank: Financing a Durable New Deal”, September 13, Michael is a Fellow at NYU's Institute for Public Knowledge and the Center for State Innovation. doctorate from the Law Faculty of Oxford University, law professor at University of London]
Qatar does not face as many immediate conflict-based legacies as the DRC. Also, in contrast to Bolivia and Venezuela, Qatar is attempting to integrate with the United States and others, although it is important to note that the U.S. market is important to Venezuela, D. Qatar In discussing how the revenues accrued from renegotiations are distributed domestically, the point has been made that it is difficult to disaggregate how the oil wealth of a country is spent generally from how renegotiation-generated oil wealth is spent. This point was made previously in relation to Venezuela. For this reason, it is useful to look at how countries productively channel oil wealth domestically into sustainable diversified economic growth strategies as a backdrop for understanding models that renegotiations might emulate. Here, we look at Qatar's efforts in this regard. As with development strategies generally, analysis of the successes and failures of Qatar in productively channeling extractive resources into sustainable domestic investments may not be clear for many years. Nonetheless, a number of lessons can be drawn from Qatars efforts. 1. The mechanics. Qatar is now investing its oil and gas revenue into an ambitious development program aiming to transform the country into a knowledge-based economy, This program has many components. The creation of the Qatar Science and Technology Park is an important part of the program. This park is reinforced by the creation of Education City. Both are in part foreign-direct-investment schemes and national growth strategies. The aim is to attract leading high—tech firms into the park and to mobilize their resources to grow a domestic knowledge economy. A number of synergies will make this possible. "Two important areas are technology transfer and the training of new economy laborers. The high-tech firms will partner with Qatar entrepreneurs and companies in an effort to localize operations, Such a partnership not only integrates local firms into the foreign companies’ operations; it also plays a role in growing a regional high-tech economy. By sharing knowledge and localization strategies, Qatar will be well positioned to take advantage of regional markets as they grow. 'To play a meaningful role in the transnational company operations and in the global economy more generally, Qatar has established Education City. This ambitious initiative attracts world-class universities to locate offsite centers within Qatar, Universities with operations in Qatar include Cornell, Carnegie Mellon, and Georgetown. Education City is unusual in that these universities confer degrees that allow Qatar graduates within the offsite centers to meet stringent U.S. professional standards. For instance, medical degrees conferred by the Cornell Medical Center within Qatar are equivalent to the 1miversity’s U.S. degree program. Furthermore, not only do these degrees confer international mobility on the graduates, they also help provide domestically trained workers that are valuable to foreign Firms locating within the Science and Technology Park. These efforts to stimulate growth within Qatar and to promote a regional economy are further reinforced through other national initiatives. For example, the Qatar Financial Centre uses the conservative revenue stream of extractive wealth to strategically channel capital into projects within the country and regionally. In other words, as with the sovereign wealth Funds, national extractive capital is being used as an investment vehicle in a way dissociated from the origin of the revenue and also, in part, for domestic growth purposes. 2. The evaluation. Thus, Qatar represents an example of how extractive wealth is not necessarily a curse. Of course, wide variation exists among countries as to the impediments of effective domestic channeling of resources. Nonetheless, Qatar might offer not only a model but also a potential partner to countries seeking to channel domestic capital effectively. It may that Qatar-based enterprises will increasingly seek their own international linkages with countries in Latin America and elsewhere. At the same time, as with other efforts to diversify economies or to leapfrog development, it is important to devise criteria for assessing the impact of domestic channeling of resources on short-, medium-, and long-term bases, The more ambitious and forward—moving a project is, however, the less reliable the metric. V. Concluding Observations and Prescriptions In conclusion, we might draw a number of observations about renegotiations and domestic distribution. First, more primary research and secondary literature debate are necessary to ascertain the nature of flows and their impact. Second, more comparative work is necessary in order to understand the empirical record in terms of both commonalities and divergences. It is also useful for cross-germination of lessons that might be learned. Third, new metrics need to be developed to understand and assess forward-looking deployment of revenue. If the impact will not be felt for some time. then how does one determine whether a certain course is advisable? Fourth, attention needs to be paid to the issue of opportunity costs. In other words, are renegotiations the most effective way of channeling resources domestically? Or do they create inefficiencies and lead to flip-flopping with upturns and downturns in the market? Filth, a cataloging of concrete policy prescriptions arising from a carefully designed research study that looks systematically, cross-nationally, and empirically at renegotiations is essential to move forward the debate.

And, filling in leadership gaps solves Lebanese explosion
The Daily Star, 12 [Qatar holding reins of regional politics amid Arab turmoil, http://www.dailystar.com.lb/News/Middle-East/2012/Feb-07/162446-qatar-holding-reigns-of-regional-politics-amid-arab-turmoil.ashx#ixzz1lsJqgyqO]
The tiny Gulf state has also led mediation efforts in Lebanon, Sudan, Eritrea and Djibouti, and is also promoting an Afghan peace deal. "All indications point to the fact that Doha has become the capital of Arab politics and diplomacy," said Emirati analyst Abdulkahleq Abdullah. "This will continue in the foreseeable future." On Monday, Doha helped clinch a deal between rival Palestinian factions Hamas and Fatah to name Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas as head of an interim government tasked with organising long-overdue general elections. For months, the two factions failed to agree on the crucial political appointment, threatening the fragile truce signed between them last April. Qatar has also thrown its support behind the Arab uprisings that swept the region, unseating autocrats in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya. In Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh is also on the verge of stepping down. Qatar openly acknowledged sending troops to Libya in support of rebels fighting to overthrow longtime leader Moammar Gadhafi. Qatar "understood at an early stage that there was a new system in the making in the Middle East," said director of the Brookings Doha Centre Salman Shaikh, noting that "it took the initiative to ensure regional stability as much as possible." Qatar's emir, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, is a close US ally who has managed to maintain strong ties with Iran, despite heightened tensions with the Islamic republic's other Gulf neighbours and Western powers over its nuclear programme. Qatar's diplomatic initiatives reach further beyond the Gulf to Africa and South Asia. Last year, Doha brokered a peace agreement between the Sudanese government and rebels in Darfur, though the deal failed to take effect on the ground. In 2008, it brokered a deal between rival Lebanese factions to end an 18-month political feud that exploded into deadly sectarian violence that threatened to push the country towards civil war. Qatar's mediation efforts also helped Eritrea and Djibouti resolve their border dispute in 2008. Qatar is also playing a crucial role in promoting a Afghan peace deal and is hosting talks between the US and Taliban officials. Pakistani Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani arrived in Qatar on Monday for discussions about efforts to bring an end to Afghanistan's 11-year conflict. "Qatar continues its effective diplomacy ... within a complicated geopolitical environment," said Shaikh. Meanwhile, Qatar's influential television news channel Al-Jazeera has changed the face of Arab TV journalism since its launch in 1996, with hard-hitting reporting on Middle East conflicts and controversial debates. Smaller countries, such as Qatar and to a smaller extent the United Arab Emirates, "have filled in the (leadership) gaps" left by the traditional diplomatic power-houses of the region, said Abdullah referring to Saudi Arabia and Egypt. However, "it is difficult to assume that Qatar's roles are not approved and supported by Saudi Arabia. At least some of them" if not all, said the analyst. "Saudi Arabia's main problem lies within its own walls -- an ageing leadership with a difficulty in responding and adjusting to developments despite its large diplomatic capabilities," he added. Qatar "also realises that it needs useful partnerships in its diplomatic efforts. This is why it relies on support from its allies such as Saudi Arabia" on complex political issues such as Syria, said Shaikh. Doha has yet to make a breakthrough in its efforts to bridge a widening gap between Washington and Tehran, who have not had formal diplomatic ties since the 1980s.

Lebanese instability causes global war
Stuart, 6 — Strategist, Negotiator and Futurist: minimising future risk at Alt3.co.uk (James, “Lebanon – the struggle continues” www.alt3.co.uk/discussion_files/lebanon.htm)
Why is this important? Why is Lebanon, which is a small country, so important to the rest of the world? Why should the world pay attention to the undeniable plight of Lebanon? The world should pay attention because Lebanon is so crucially placed. It is also a democracy in a region infamous for its extremist inspired instability. The murderous extremists who inspire such instability are doing everything in their considerable power to maintain and spread this instability in the sure knowledge that stability will create growth – and they themselves will not be required. The extremists live to destroy. To sustain themselves they must spread their destruction. If the brave souls of Lebanon fall … who will be next? The eyes of the extremists will then turn to those rich states on the periphery of the region – and they will strip those states bare to feed their addiction and leave such a trail of destruction that will be truly unbearable, that will be truly shameful. Lebanon is crucial to the stability of the entire Middle East region. It is crucial to the stability of the world. This is where a stand must be taken lest the extremists, and the madmen from external states who inspire the extremists, gain too much strength, too much momentum. Lebanon may be a small country yet here is where the heart of the world will either beat strongly or will cease to beat at all. If there is a wider instability there will only be a wider destruction – and will be too much to stop.

===reg neg counterplan 2nc at: certainty key (vs. CCS)=== 
**Certainty is a DA to the Aff --- only reg neg promotes transparency and input that are essential to public respect for the law --- plan won’t be trusted because it’s a top-down bolt from the blue --- that’s Endelman. This perception undercuts certainty and creates fear of roll-back. Only the CP solves.**
**Siegler 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ellen, Senior Attorney – American Petroleum Institute, “Regulatory Negotiations and Other Rulemaking Processes: Strengths and Weaknesses from an Industry Viewpoint”, Duke Law Journal, April, 46 Duke L.J. 1429, Lexis)</span>

There can be benefits to participating in a successful reg neg. First, the opportunity for participants to discuss issues and confront each other sometimes leads to a more creative and more practical regulatory approach than would have occurred in a traditional rulemaking process, in which parties with different, adverse positions would participate largely by submitting written comments on a proposed rule. Second, the consensus process - with its expectation of avoiding litigation over final rule - may persuade the agency to adopt a more creative legal interpretation than it might have otherwise adopted for the purpose of reaching a result that all parties agree makes sense. Third, a successful reg neg can provide greater certainty than the traditional rulemaking process that a regulation will notchange between agreement and proposal or between proposal and a final rule. This certainty is extremely valuable to industry, especially if compliance entails major con- [*1435] struction projects, which are costly and require years of advance planning.

**<span class="Underline">Coordination with stakeholders over CCS allows for the best form of implementation, avoiding delay, technological failure, and rollback- spills over to an adaptive management framework that independently solves warming </span>**
<span class="Underline">**Siegel 09** (Joseph, professor of Law at Pace University. 1/1/09. "Collaborative Decision Making on ClimateChange in the Federal Government." Pace Environment Law Reveiw. digitalcommons.pace.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1576&context=envlaw)</span>
<span class="Underline">*In This article, “Adaptive Management” is referred to as a framework among shareholders to develop mitigation and adaptation strategies</span>

<span class="Underline">Climate change planning is fraught with uncertainty. First, on the global scale, despite an already existing robust body of data on climate change impacts, there is uncertainty about the precise timing and extent of those impacts. Additionally, scientists are constantly refining models and other predictive tools. The trend in new projections has been toward worsening impacts; 33 and if this trend continues, policy makers may find the need to revise their mitigation planning in a more aggressive manner. Second, while scientists have made significant advances in developing more reliable downscale models for regional and local impact projections, great uncertainty still remains. As a result, efforts to adapt to climate change will need to be revisited and updated frequently. Third, technological and other solutions will have to be selected and implemented without complete certainty about their effectiveness because we are in a race against time. Once implemented, these solutions might, in some cases, fail to help us mitigate or adapt and, in other cases, be rejected because they result in new environmental problems. Given these three areas of uncertainty, decisions on climate change will have to be fashioned with the recognition that there may be a large range of probabilistic outcomes. 34 In addition, political will to take action appears to be on the rise 35 and can be expected to rise further as the voting public begins to experience, and gain awareness of actual climate change impacts. 36 As a result, more aggressive regulatory measures, which are 33. See PEW CTR. ON GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE, supra note 3. 34. Emerson & Murchie, supra note 21, at 141-61. 35. See Fewer Americans See Solid Evidence of Global Warming, PEW RESEARCH CTR. FOR THE PEOPLE & THE PRESS, Oct. 22, 2009, http://peoplepress.org/report/556/global-warming (describing how global warming awareness has dropped since the 2008 presidential campaign). 36. Educating and engaging the public will be a key element in achieving support for critical government action. See generally Sussman, supra note 17. unthinkable today, may become possible. Given the scientific, technological, and political uncertainty, decisions on climate change mitigation and adaptation require a significant level of flexibility. A constant stream of new information will create the need to be nimble as policy makers find cause to update decisions. As such, decisions must be made in an experimental context with the recognition that some actions will fail 37 and opportunities for more effective options will arise. Collaborative decision-making can “foster innovative, prompt, and efficient responses to changing conditions” and therefore provide the flexibility needed to adapt. 38 The term “adapt” in this context is distinguishable from the more typical usage of climate change adaptation, for example, by building a bigger sea wall. Instead, it refers to adapting our “management” of the problem, for example, by revisiting over time how high the sea wall needs to be. This concept applies to decisions made about both mitigation and adaptation and is often referred to as “adaptive management.” Collaborative decision-making can be initiated with the goal of designing an adaptive management strategy. It can also create the necessary trust and shared experience among stakeholders to successfully carry out the ongoing decisions necessary for adaptive management. The basic premise of adaptive management is that, as stakeholders obtain more information about a problem, they can adapt the way they manage the problem. This feedback loop allows the stakeholders to make decisions in the face of uncertainty with the recognition that they will modify decisions as they learn more. 39 Adaptive management is used in the resource management world as a way to deal with problems in large complex systems. As such, the approach would appear to have significant import for the problem of climate change. 40 In fact, the U.S. Climate Change Science Program recognizes adaptive management as a strategy for dealing with the uncertainty of climate change: “[t]his method [adaptive management] supports managers in taking action today using the best available information while also providing the possibility of ongoing future refinements through an iterative learning process.” 41 The principle of adaptive management can be applied to aspects of climate change other than resource management. For example, it could prove useful when considering controversial technological fixes, such as carbon capture and sequestration, for mitigation purposes. While the precautionary principle 42 would favor acquiring sufficient knowledge before introducing a new technology into an ecosystem, adaptive management would recognize both the pressing need to take action and the potential for harm to an ecosystem when introducing the new technology. 43 The potential for harm arises because decision makers and stakeholders cannot wait for all questions to be answered before they take action. 44 Thus, they must weigh the amount of uncertainty they are willing to tolerate against the need for prompt action and determine how to manage that uncertainty and risk once an action has gone forward. Successful implementation of adaptive management therefore requires mutual trust given the associated risk and uncertainty of experimentation. 45 Collaborative processes can help to build and maintain the trust among stakeholders needed for ultimate success given that there may be failures along the way. Moreover, collaborative processes can also provide a communication and process framework for bringing the same stakeholders back to the table as new information arises. Given the inherent uncertainty in fashioning climate change responses, collaborative decision making is more likely to result in selection of decisions that are better in the first instance, require fewer revisions, and are more adaptable when revisions are necessary.</span>
==Strategies== 

__**<span class="Underline">Greenhill:</span>**__

__<span class="Underline">Round 2 vs. GBS (BRAC):</span>__
<span class="Underline">T-military</span>
<span class="Underline">NMS Recommend CP (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">Elections (Obama good)</span>
<span class="Underline">Heidegger</span>
<span class="Underline">Case D</span>

__<span class="Underline">Round 4 vs. Notre Dame (Mayport):</span>__
<span class="Underline">T-military</span>
<span class="Underline">NMS recommend CP (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">International Convention on Biodiversity Advantage Counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Elections (Obama good)</span>
<span class="Underline">Heg bad</span>
<span class="Underline">Case D</span>

__<span class="Underline">Round 6 vs. New Trier (Bikes):</span>__
<span class="Underline">Framework</span>
<span class="Underline">T-vehicles</span>
<span class="Underline">GOP elections</span>
<span class="Underline">Texting conditions counterplan (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">States counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Oil dependence good</span>
<span class="Underline">Util</span>


**__<span class="Underline">New Trier:</span>__**

__<span class="Underline">Round 2 vs. Maine East (HSR):</span>__
<span class="Underline">Oil DA (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">Restoring america’s future and cutting the corporate tax rate counterplan (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">Coercion</span>
<span class="Underline">Heidegger</span>
<span class="Underline">Fiscal Cliff politics (Obama good)</span>
<span class="Underline">Case D (2nr)</span>

__<span class="Underline">Round 4 vs. Kinkaid (JARC):</span>__
<span class="Underline">Framework</span>
<span class="Underline">ASPEC</span>
<span class="Underline">TANF counterplan with federalism and data cooking net benefit </span>
<span class="Underline">Heidegger (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">Elections DA (Obama good)</span>
<span class="Underline">Coericion DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Sacred Cow DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Case D</span>

__<span class="Underline">Round 6 vs.GBS (Inland water ways):</span>__
<span class="Underline">States Counterplan (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">Fiscal Cliff politics DA (Obama good) (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">T- United States is all 50 states</span>
<span class="Underline">Advanatage counterplan- restoring america’s future, cut the corporate tax rate, tax breaks for researchers, air tanker fleet, increase peace corps funding.</span>
<span class="Underline">Oil DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Case D (2nr)</span>

__<span class="Underline">Doubles vs. Lane Tech (D and G):</span>__
<span class="Underline">Heg/Cap good DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Framework</span>
<span class="Underline">False heroism K (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">PIC out of the resolution</span>
<span class="Underline">Control good case turns</span>

__<span class="Underline">Octos vs. GBN CT (Asceticism):</span>__
<span class="Underline">Troll K</span>
<span class="Underline">A Very Special Consult CP</span>


**__<span class="Underline">St. Mark’s:</span>__**

<span class="Underline">Round 2 vs. Westminster (Dredging):</span>
<span class="Underline">Heidegger</span>
<span class="Underline">Ask Qatar to fund the plan counterplan (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">Fiscal Cliff DA (Obama PC kt veto threat)</span>
<span class="Underline">T-maintenance</span>
<span class="Underline">LNG disad</span>
<span class="Underline">Case D </span>

__<span class="Underline">Round 3 vs. Greenhill (Bering Strait Land grants):</span>__
<span class="Underline">Lopez CP with federalism internal net benefit</span>
<span class="Underline">Fiscal Cliff DA (Obama PC kt veto threat)</span>
<span class="Underline">T-investment</span>
<span class="Underline">Heidegger</span>
<span class="Underline">Oil DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Case D</span>

__<span class="Underline">Round 5 vs. Head Royce (D and G airport security):</span>__
<span class="Underline">Framework</span>
<span class="Underline">False Heroism (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">Ethanol disad</span>
<span class="Underline">PIC out of the resolution</span>
<span class="Underline">Control good turns</span>

<span class="Underline">__**Michigan:**__</span>

<span class="Underline">__Round 3 vs. Pace (Inland Waterways)__</span>
<span class="Underline">Oil DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Fiscal Cliff DA (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">States CP (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>
<span class="Underline">Environment DA</span>
<span class="Underline">T-In the United States</span>

<span class="Underline"> __Round 5 vs. Westminster (CCS)__</span>
<span class="Underline">Heidegger K (2nr)</span>
<span class="Underline">Qatar CP</span>
Sacred Cow DA
Fiscal Cliff DA
T-Pipelines

__Triple Octas vs. Westminster (Title XI)__
Fiscal Cliff DA (2nr)
States CP (2nr)
T-In the United States
Environment DA
Advantage Counterplan- restoring america's future, lowering corporate tax rate, sealift.
Oil dependence good on case

__Doubles vs GBN HK (Daoism)__
The 1nc consisted of Tommy and Ethan performing a conversion ceremony on the judges so they could become Buddhist monks.
2nc/1nr/2nr were not given.


__Octas vs. Westminster (CCS)__
Heidegger K
Negotiated Rule making counterplan (2nr)
Sacred Cow DA
T-pipelines
Coercion
Ice Age DA on case

__**Alta**__

__Round 1 vs. East (Nextgen)__
Politics DA (fiscal cliff)
Oil DA
Launches DA (2nr)
Counterplan- PIC out of GPS, Restoring America's Future, Lower corporate tax rate, cloud albedo, Joint Operational Access. (2nr)

__Round 3 vs. CPS (Dredging)__
Russian LNG DA
Agriculture research counterplan
Heidegger K (2nr)
T-maintenance
Trade bad on case

__Round 6 vs. Rowland Hall (Icebreakers)__
Coast Guard Trade-off disad
Security K
Russian invest in icebreakers CP
Topicality- military, maintenance, vehicles (2nr)
Politics (fiscal cliff)

__Quarters vs GBN HK (gosh, we hit these trolls a lot. This time it was critical bikes)__
Silence K (After all, they're right. How could anyone say that we shouldn't all have bikes?)

**__Blake__**

__Round 1 vs. Rosemount (NEXTGEN)__
Security K
PIC out of space assets (2nr)
Politics (fiscal cliff)
Launches DA (2nr)
Oil DA

__Round 3 vs. Lex (Guam)__
Politics (fiscal cliff)
NMS CP
Psychosecurity K (2nr)
T-In
China relations disad on case

__Round 5 vs. Whitney Young (Death aff)__

False Heroism K
PIC out of Transportation infrastructure and ablism net benefit
Framework (2nr)
Mao

__**Emory**__

__Round 1 vs. Monticelo (Space Elevator)__


Light pollution DA (2nr)
Advantage counterplan- Asteroid monitering, super chimneys, research integration
ESA CP
T-space/T-in
Politics (Hagel)

__Round 3.vs. Seaholm (HTF)__

PIC out of Transportation
Politics (immigration) (2nr)
Rationality K
T-spending
Heg bad on case

__Round 5 vs. CPS (Mayport)__

T-military
States CP (2nr)
Politics (Immigration) (2nr)
NMS CP
Heg bad on case

__**Berkeley**__
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 9217.5px; width: 1px;">US decline drags down the global economy</span>
__Round 1 vs. Taylor (excess)__
Framework
False Heroism Kritik
PIC out of transportation infrastructure w/ ablism net benefit (2nr)
Science/tech good da

__Round 3 vs. Seaholm (HTF)__
T-investment
CP to PIC out of transportation and create super chimneys
ethanol DA (2nr)
politics (immigration)
rationality kritik

__Round 5 vs. UC Lab (Space Ports)__
Space Elevator counterplan (2nr)
Space insurance DA (2nr)
Rationality kritik
politics (immigration)
space col bad turns on case

__Doubles vs. Leland (NIB)__
T-investment
Rationality Kritik
federal reserve bonds counterplan (2nr)
politics (2nr)

__triples vs. Head Royce (road kill)__
Framework (2nr)
PIC out of transportation w/ ablism net benefit
False Heroism kritik
anthro good turns on case

__**Districts**__


__Round 2 vs. Maine East__
Rationality kritik
politics (immigration reform)
freight rail trade-off da (2nr)
advantage counterplan- r&d tax credits, lowering the corporate tax rate, cash for clunkers (2nr)
stimulus bad turns on case
oil dependance good turns on case

__round 4 vs. Niles West__
T-investment
states CP
manufacturing da
politics da (immigration)
Biopower K

**__IHSA State__**

__Round 2 vs. GBS (LNG terminals)__
approve export applications counterplan (2nr)
russia relations da
politics (immigration) (2nr)
states cp

__Round 4 vs. Niles West (Courts/racism aff)__
T-vehicles
T-investment
False Heroism kritik (2nr)
court legitimacy da
referendums cp

__semis vs. Whitney young (ports and waterways)__
T- transportation infrastructure/T-throughout
States CP
CP to invest in ports, invest in education, lower the corporate tax rate, give r&d tax credits, invest in naval shipbuilding (2nr)
Oil DA (2nr)
politics (Immigration)





<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 9217.5px; width: 1px;">Caploe, 9 (David, PhD in International Political Economy, Princeton University, “Focus still on America to lead global recovery,” The Strait Times, 4/7/09)</span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 9217.5px; width: 1px;">The world has become accustomed … is not going to happen.</span>