[[toc]]
=Bronx Science DM= 

=NSD= 
ooo k 

<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The starting point of the ethical theory setting up the 1AC’s framework is justified through a “vertical ontology” which privileges a certain objective conception of the “human being” as the starting point for morality and ethics and ignores the contribution of different perspectives. **Bryant ‘12**</span>


[Flat Ontology/Flat Ethics, larvalsubjects, June 1, 2012, Levi R. Bryanthttp://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/06/01/flat-ontologyflat-ethics/]



<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The affirmatives exclusion of other conceptions of being in the 1AC is taking for granted the Human/non-human distinction. It is an anthropocentric understanding that only humans are capable of creating an authentic understanding of the world. **Bell and Russell 2k** </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(anne and constance, Canadian journal of education, http://www.csse-scee.ca/CJE/Articles/FullText/CJE25-3/CJE25-3-bell.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The dichotomization between humans and nonhumans have historically been the justification for oppression. **Best ‘07**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Best. 2007, Chair of Philosophy at UT-EP, //JCAS// 5.2//)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our alternative is the view the world from the lens of the flat ontology. </span>**



<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 12pt;">This means that all objects, humans and non-humans are on an equal ontological playing field. The alternative opens up the starting point for ethics from a merely human perspective to one that is more inclusive to different conceptions of being. **Bryant ‘11**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Levi R. Bryant, The Democracy of Objects, 1. Grounds For a Realist Ontology, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.openhumanitiespress.org/|Open Humanities Press, 2011]]</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://quod.lib.umich.edu/o/ohp/9750134.0001.001/1:5/--democracy-of-objects?rgn=div1;view=fulltext]]</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]