[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
====Look at Briceida and Jake for Plan text, Heg advantage, and inherency. Email Jake for questions. jakerwier@gmail.com==== 
====Heg Advantage==== 
Scenario 1: the same advantage under Briceida and Jake
Scenario 2:
=====**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The economy is growing slowly and erratically</span>**===== 
Voice of America 8/31/12 (Jim Randle, “Indicators Show US Economic Recovery Slow, Uneven,” http://www.voanews.com/content/us-economy-indicators_slow_uneven/1499665.html) 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A look at some key industries in the United States shows that the economic recovery is a bit erratic and growth seems to be slowing down. ...</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Trying to figure out what to do about the sluggish economic recovery is even more complicated.</span>


=====**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Connection to ports also solves the economy</span>**===== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Industrial College of the Armed Forces National Defense University, ‘3</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Spring, “2003 Industry Study: Final Report Transportation” http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a425291.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Congress needs to reauthorize the major roads program called for in the Transportation Efficiency Act-21. With tightening budget constraints, our leaders cannot afford to be shortsighted on reauthorizing this program. ...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. is currently the only country in the world with this capability. U.S. commitment to global reach is demonstrated through recent purchases of the C-17. This capability must be maintained while encouraging our allies to buy/develop their own capabilities.</span>


=====**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Economic collapses makes war the preferred and only means for acquiring resources</span>**===== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Tilford, History Professor at Grove City College, ‘8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Earl, October 6, “Critical Mass: Economic Leadership or Dictatorship” Center for Vision and Values, </span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.visandvals.org/Critical_Mass_Economic_Leadership_or_Dictatorship.php?view_all=1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">A global economic collapse will also increase</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">chance of global conflict</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">. ...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">At this point of critical mass, while rife with politicians, we are impoverished for leadership.</span>


=====**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Economic wars go nuclear and global</span>**===== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Kemp ’10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Geoffrey Kemp, 2010, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first scenario; everything that can go wrong does go wrong. ...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In this scenario, major disruptions can be expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet’s population.</span>













====Evacuation Advantage==== 
=====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Highways are critical to evac operations.</span>===== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">U.S. Dept. of Transportation,</span> **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">’06</span>** (“Using Highways During Evacuation Operations” http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/evac_primer/primer.pdf)

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Disasters</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">can </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">come in infinite varieties and...</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Traffic impacts during recovery may be more significant than during response.</span>


=====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Role of highways remains major in national security- Key is evacuations</span>===== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">American Highway Users Alliance ’06,</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> oakridge institute of science and energy, managed by the Department of Energy</span>(“Emergency Evacuation Report Card 2006: 25 Urban Areas Could Face Greater Challenges than New Orleans Experienced after Hurricane Katrina”, [[http://orise.orau.gov/csepp/documents/planning/evacuation-documents/federal-reports/evacuation_report_card2006.pdf]])


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">highways have an</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">other</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, increasingly important function</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">providing evacuation routes in times of emergency....</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">highways are necessarily the principal infrastructure of evacuation.A well functioning evacuation system for people without access to cars would necessarily rely on buses, which would rely on highways.</span>



=====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Terrorist cells are gearing up for a new attack against the US homeland</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Kahlili 4/4</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Reza, senior analyst for World Net Weekly, “Terror cells on high alert to attack U.S.” [[http://www.wnd.com/2012/04/terror-cells-on-high-alert-to-attack-u-s/]]) </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Terror cells have been placed on high alert to attack targets in the United States</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and Europe should Iran’s nuclear facilities be attacked, a source in the Revolutionary Guards says</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">....Others enter from Mexico where the cells are supported with cash from an illegal drug operation. Businesses run by Hezbollah, mosques and Islamic foundations provide another source of financing for these cells in America.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Other assets, the source indicates, are of Mexican and Latin American origin, which the Guards’ intelligence apparatus has longed worked to train and recruit. </span>


=====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Terrorist attack will be nuclear</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Williams</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, Coordinator Fissile Materials Working Group, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">’11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [Sarah Williams, Coordinator of the Fissile Materials Working Group and Herbert Scoville Jr. Peace Fellow at the Center for Science, Technology and Security Policy, "After bin Laden: Nuclear terrorism still a top threat," Bulletin of Atomic Scientists – Fissile Materials Working Group, May 13th 2011, www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/fissile-materials-working-group/after-bin-laden-nuclear-terrorism-still-top-t]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Osama bin Laden's death may represent a significant turning point in the US effort to defeat Al Qaeda, but the threat of nuclear terrorism will not lessen in the wake of his demise...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: 1.5;">Enough nuclear material to make tens of thousands of nuclear devices exists in dozens of locations worldwide. Without being able to predict how bin Laden's death might alter the operational capacity of Al Qaeda, a US priority must be securing this potential source material.</span>








=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]