===LEGACY AC=== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality.**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity. **Cummiskey**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> ‘90</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We must not … some to save many.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The fundamental logical properties of moral words are that they are universalizable and prescriptive. **R. M. Hare[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">My hope then … ‘ought’, and (//a fortiori//) ‘must’.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This means that agents must decide whether to endorse maxims regardless of their own unique position. To determine whether we would will a maxim for all similarly situated agents, we must give equal weight to other’s preferences. **Hare[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]** **2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I mention these … to maximize satisfactions.</span>

**Thus,** the standard is **net benefits.**

**B IS RISK ANALYSIS**
We should adjust risk analysis based on common sense - disregard enormous impacts because prior experience disqualifies the probability of catastrophe. **Karnofsky**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Holden Karnofsky. “Why We Can't Take Expected Value Estimates Literally (Even When They're Unbiased)”. 18 August 2011. Co-Founder of GiveWell, a non-profit charity evaluator (decides whom to give money) Harvard ’03. “An EEV approach…of life experience.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">An EEV [explicit] [expected-value] approach … of life experience.</span>


Rehabilitation is distinct from traditional criminal sanctions. **Lipsey** and **Cullen[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]** ’07:
Rehabilitation treatment is … of antisocial behavior (Walters 1990)].
**I contend that criminal justice policies associated with rehabilitation reduce crime.**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First is Social Disempowerment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The paradigm of punishment ignores the state’s obligation to address the causes of crime and instead perpetutates the problems it seeks to solve. This punitive criminal justice project institutionalizes control and dependency. Imprisonment becomes a way of marginalizing outsiders and creating an underclass of recalcitrant individuals and their communities. **Wacquant**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Loic Wacquant—2008. [Professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Institute for Legal Research, Boalt Law School, University of California at Berkeley]. The Place of the Prison in the New Government of Poverty in: After the war on crime: race, democracy, and a new reconstruction by [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Mary+Louise+Frampton%22|Mary Louise Frampton]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Ian+Haney-L%C3%B3pez%22|Ian Haney-López]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Jonathan+Simon%22|Jonathan Simon]]. NYU Press. JS.</span>
More than the … civalized wage work.

We must break out of the mindset of incarceration. This myopic perspective ignores the social dimensions of crime and the widespread impact of criminal justice policy. **Wacquant 2**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Loic Wacquant—2008. [Professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Institute for Legal Research, Boalt Law School, University of California at Berkeley]. The Place of the Prison in the New Government of Poverty in: After the war on crime: race, democracy, and a new reconstruction by [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Mary+Louise+Frampton%22|Mary Louise Frampton]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Ian+Haney-L%C3%B3pez%22|Ian Haney-López]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Jonathan+Simon%22|Jonathan Simon]]. NYU Press. JS.</span>
Grasping the changing … of convict labor.
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The impact is cyclical poverty, crime, oppression, and exclusion. **Ferrell**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Mark W. Lipsey and Francis T. Cullen—5 July 2007. [Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University and Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati]. The Effectiveness of Correctional Rehabilitation: A Review of Systematic Reviews. Annual Review of Law and Social Science. Vol, 3, pp. 297–320. JS.</span>
As the interactionist/labeling … claims, falsely, to solve.

**Second is Recidivism**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Rehabilitation in the form of CBT and MST are extremely effective at reducing recidivism rates. Multiple meta-analyses as well as reviews of meta-analyses have soundly concluded that it works. **Cullen** and **Gendreau** </span>
<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 6pt;">Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice. JS.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Even if interventions … the interventions “doubles” (p. 98).</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Prefer my meta-analytic evidence to isolated studies or individual examples of failure. **Cullen** and **Gendreau2**</span>
<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 6pt;">Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice. JS.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">There are, however... interventions they initiate.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Taken as a whole, the evidence indicates that rehabilitative therapy lowers recidivism rates by approximately twenty percent. According to the **Bureau of Justice Statistics**, a twenty percent decrease in recidivism nationally translates to nearly 100,000 fewer repeat offenders being sent to prison every single year.<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span> Since the average repeat offender is charged with more than four crimes at a time, that means nearly 4 million fewer crimes a decade. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The direct harm of recidivism has three impacts. **Wilson**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US</span><span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 6pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The effects of recidivism … cannot be understood.</span>

===DEVRY AC=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality.**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To evaluate ethical judgements we must //first// untangle our ontological commitments about who is and is not included in the “us” and the “them.” This requires analyzing how policies frame our capacity to apprehend lives. **Butler 1**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We ask such … who will not.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **preventing exclusion from our frames of reference** and preventing control of life by power because</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Debate and academica do not take seriously the voices of victims or the complexity of social struggles. **Prosise, et al 1** </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">While this emphasis … of logical types.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed allowing us to commit the worst possible violence to them. **Butler 2**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” //Studies in Gender & Sexuality// 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Lives are supported … qualifies for recognition.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I advocate for using education for rehabilitating criminals. Whitney ’09: </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Emily A. Whitney. Correctional Rehabilitation Programs and the Adoption of International Standards: How the United States Can Reduce Recidivism and Promote the National Interest. University of Iowa Law Review. 2009</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Following the passage …the national economy. 85</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Traditional notions of retribution are flawed in that they simply focus on the status of accused individuals; the criminal justice system doesn’t function outside of this obligation under the retributive paradigm **Reiman**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>’95:</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">This is the … criminality or injustice.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, by focusing on the necessity of victims and criminals to receive their just deserts, the criminal justice system becomes obsessed with the concept of criminalization due to the political incentive **Ferrell[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]** ’98:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As the interactionist.. falsely, to solve.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, this is empirically verified, the criminal justice system ignores the importance of criminogenic environments</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Delgado ’85</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">-Richard. “Rotten Social Background”: Should the Criminal Law Recognize a Defense of Severe Environmental Deprivation?” Seattle University School of Law. </span>

Signiﬁcant relationships … have little control. 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In ignoring the social disempowerment that causes crime, the criminal justice system loses legitimacy **Meares[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]] in 2005:**</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Fair process norms …controlling the procedures.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Instead,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> the state ought to hold itself responsible for the higher order factors that caused the crime in the first place as otherwise, individuals are being violated twice **Hudson[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]** ’03:</span>

Cullen and Gilbert … a specific case.” (ibid.: 20) 


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Moreover, rehabilitation solves for the pitfalls of criminal justice as criminal justice imposes its own forms of oppression as convicts are put in positions to recidivate **Rotman[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]** ’86:</span>

The humanistic model … socially-deprived offender.

----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Jeffrey Reiman. “A Radical Perspective on Crime.” Deviance: A Symbolic Interactionist Approach, ed. Nancy J. Herman. Lanham: Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc. (1995), p. 100-101.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Jeff Ferrell—1998. [Department of Criminal Justice, Northern Arizona University]. </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Against the Law: Anarchist Criminology. Social Anarchism, No. 25. JS.</span>//
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Barbra Hudson—2003. [</span><span style="color: #131313; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Professor of Law, Director of Centre for Criminology and Criminal Justice at Lancashire Law School, University of Central Lancashire]. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Understanding justice: an introduction to ideas, perspectives, and controversies in modern penal theory. McGraw Hill International. JS.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Edgardo Rotman—1986. [Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology (1975); Ph.D. (1973); Law Degree (1959), National University of Buenos Aires]. Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 77, No. 4, pp. 1023-1068. JS.</span>

===OUR OWN IMAGE NC=== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To evaluate ethical judgements we must //first// untangle our ontological commitments about who is and is not included in the “us” and the “them.” This requires analyzing how policies frame our capacity to apprehend lives. **Butler 1** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We ask such … who will not. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **preventing exclusion from our frames of reference** and preventing control of life by power because</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Debate and academica do not take seriously the voices of victims or the complexity of social struggles. **Prosise, et al 1** </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">While this emphasis … of logical types.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed allowing us to commit the worst possible violence to them. **Butler 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” //Studies in Gender & Sexuality// 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Lives are supported … qualifies for recognition.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Rehabilitation puts peoples lives directly in the government’s hands. It attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. It directly destroys the individual, forcing them to be “cured” in order to best serve society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">If this statement by the government.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> R. M. Hare [Prof. of Moral Philosophy, University of Oxford], __Moral Thinking: Its Levels, Method and Point__. Oxford: Clarendon Press (1981), p. 20-22.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], //Freedom and Reason// (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 122-123.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]] Heather C. West, William J. Sabol, and Sarah J. Greenman—December 2010. [PhD’s, Statisticians, and Program Assistants for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Bureau of Justice Statistics Bulletin: Prisoners in 2009. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 231675. JS. Patrick A. Langan and David J. Levin—June 2002. [PhD’s and Statisticians for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Recidivism of Prisoners Released in 1994. Bureau of Justice Statistics Special Report. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 193427. JS.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]] Heather C. West, William J. Sabol, and Sarah J. Greenman—December 2010. [PhD’s, Statisticians, and Program Assistants for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Bureau of Justice Statistics Bulletin: Prisoners in 2009. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 231675. JS. Patrick A. Langan and David J. Levin—June 2002. [PhD’s and Statisticians for the Bureau of Justice Statistics]. Recidivism of Prisoners Released in 1994. Bureau of Justice Statistics Special Report. U.S. Department of Justice. Office of Justice Programs. NCJ 193427. JS.</span>