[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Observation 1: Inherency== 
====Inland Waterways transport large amounts of US goods. Their failure is inevitable.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Toohey, 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> --- President and CEO of Waterways Council, Inc. (9/21/2011, Mike, Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing - "The Economic Importance and Financial Challenges of Recapitalizing the Nation's Inland Waterways Transportation System," Factiva, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Mr. Chairman, our inland waterways system includes approximately 12,000 miles of commercially navigable channels and 238 locks at 192 sites throughout the country. </span>
If this situation persists, it threatens to erode the very fabric of our inland waterways system. WCI is dedicated to preventing that outcome.
====Waterways need to be updated now.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Steel Business Briefing 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steel Business Briefing News, 05/29/11. “Lack of Waterway Funding a Serious Concern in US”. Factiva.) WKS</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">America’s inland waterways – the system of rivers, locks and dams used to transport various commodities, including steel – are in need of serious work to repair aging infrastructure, but scarcity of funding and the lack of consideration from the federal government are major concerns for the industries that rely on the system for the transportation of goods. </span>

Stark estimated some 624m shorttons of cargo are shipped on America's inland waterways each year, SBB notes.
====The Army Corps current “fix when fail” approach ensures the complete failure of the system. The status quo is making the situation worse.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pittsburg Post, 2012</span>
Len Boselovic, award winner for business and investigative reporting, 3/18/2012, Pittsburgh Post (“THE NATION'S LOCKS AND DAMS, INCLUDING 23 IN REGION, ARE ON THE BRINK OF FAILURE, ACCORDING TO U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS”)
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Faced with flat funding, the Corps has adopted a "fix when fail" approach to maintaining locks and dams.</span>

"I have never seen the disruptions to traffic we have now," said Martin T. Hettel, the American Electric Power manager responsible for moving coal on AEP barges to the Columbus, Ohio, utility's power plants


====PLAN: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its inland waterways infrastructure in the United States.==== 
==Advantage 1: Trade== 
====Global trade growth is inevitable – it’s only a question if the U.S. is engaged==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IWR 12 </span>(US Army Corps of Engineers, Institute for Water Resources, June 20, “U.S. Port and Inland Waterways Modernization: Preparing for Post-Panamax Vessels”, pg. 14-15)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Despite the recent worldwide recession,</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">the expected general trend for international trade is one of continued growth as the world’s population and standard of living grow. </span>

Careful consideration is needed when determining channel depth requirements at U.S. ports for this trade route.

====As trade increases, the U.S. need the waterways to accommodate==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">U.S. Army Corp of Engineers 12</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Institute for water resources, “U.S. Port and Waterway Modernization: Preparing for post-Panamax vessels.” US Army Corp of Engineers. Written June 20th, 2012. Accessed June 27, 2012. [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/portswaterways/rpt/June_20_U.S._Port_and_Inland_Waterways_Preparing_for_Post_Panamax_Vessels.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Congress directed the USACE Institute for Water Resources to submit to the Senate and House committees on appropriations a “report on how the Congress should address the critical need for additional port and inland waterways modernization to accommodate post-Panamax vessels.”</span>

Careful consideration is needed when determining channel depth requirements at U.S. ports for this trade route.
====Inland waterways key to boosting exports.==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Boselovic ’12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> [Len Boselovic, “The Consol Energy towboat Aliquippa takes two barges of sand up the Monongahela River to Monessen,” March 18, 2012,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Industry officials say more reliable locks and dams could boost U.S. exports, a critical element of</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;"> President Barack </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Obama's economic recovery plan</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Panama project could benefit American coal and grain producers eyeing booming markets in Asia if they can efficiently ship products down the Ohio and Mississippi rivers to New Orleans for export.</span>
====Economic Interdependence solves for war==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Boudreux 6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> — Donald J. Boudreux, Chairman of the economics department at George Mason University, 11/20/06, “Want world peace? Support free trade,” http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">During the past 30 years, Solomon Polachek, an economist at the State University of New York at Binghamton, has researched the relationship between trade and peace.</span>

It's bad for the bottom line to shoot your customers or your suppliers, so the more you trade with foreigners the less likely you are to seek, or even to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.

====Trade liberalization boosts our economy--increased exports, empirically true.==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">C</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">. </span>Fred Bergsten<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, Director, Peterson Institute for International Economics, “Trade Saves the Day,” </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">WASHINGTON POST, </span>September 17,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, p. A19.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Globalization is paying off for the United States just when we need it. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">We should be making new compacts to reduce barriers as rapidly as possible rather than fearing to implement those already negotiated, such as the free-trade agreements with Colombia and Korea that are languishing in Congress.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Advantage 2: Coal</span>== 

====Inland waterways are the most efficient means of fuel transport, but deteriorating system puts that in jeopardy.==== 

Lee Buchsbaum,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Coal Age</span>, 2/23<span style="font-size: 13pt;">/12, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">associate editor for Coal Age magazine</span>, (Lee, 2/23/12 “LOCKED Out: Aging Locks and Dams Jeopardize Inland Waterways” [[http://www.coalage.com/index.php/features/1766-locked-out-aging-locks-and-dams-jeopardize-inland-waterways.html]])

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">According to the Waterways Council, a Washington-based industry group,moving coal and other freight via barge through the nation’s river system is the most energy efficient mode of transportation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span> As Congress debates how much to fund the waterways through this winter, shippers wonder how the inevitable spring floods will affect them and their customers later this year.

====Inland waterways are carry the bulk of all coal shipped to power plants.==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Army Corps of Engineers</span> on the Navigation Economic Technologies Program November 1, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2005</span> (”AN OVERVIEW OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM” http://www.corpsnets.us/docs/other/05-NETS-R-12.pdf)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">As mentioned earlier, coal is the primary commodity hauled, encapsulating over half of all barge traffic.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Second, the large river system encourages power plants to agglomerate nearby since they can utilize the waterway for two purposes: in-plant water needs as well as an efficient mode for receiving coal, a primary input for</span>

====Lock Gate Failures will steadily and surely occur soon, making coal undesirable.==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Buchsbaum 12, </span>associate editor for Coal Age magazine citing Keith Darling, president of AEP’s River Operations, (Lee, 2/23/12 “LOCKED Out: Aging Locks and Dams Jeopardize Inland Waterways” [[http://www.coalage.com/index.php/features/1766-locked-out-aging-locks-and-dams-jeopardize-inland-waterways.html]])

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Over the next 20 years lock gate failures will continue steadily</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">All of this translates to higher costs for coal, which only prices it further out when compared to natural gas.</span>

====Coal is crucial to the steel industry==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WCI </span>3/6/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2009</span> (World Coal Institute, organization promoting technological innovation and improved environmental outcomes within the context of a balanced and responsible energy mix. “Coal and Steel,” 3/6/2009)hhs-ps


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Steel is a vital building block for development </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">– it facilitates economic growth and poverty alleviation and is a major element in improving quality of life. </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The well-supplied world market means that metallurgical coal can be delivered worldwide, facilitating the manufacture of steels which will ultimately deliver the goods and services that growing economies demand.</span>

====Steel is key to American Hegemony==== 

Steve **Buyer,** Member of the House of Representatives**,** 7-31<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-</span>**2007** (Steve, Before the International Trade Commission, Regarding the five-year sunset review on Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine (Inv. Nos. 701-TA-404-408 and 731-TA-898-908))

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">A robust steel industry is fundamental to the security and economic viability of this nation</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Please take this under consideration while contemplating your decision in this matter - a vital instrument of our national security lies in your hands. </span>

====Collapse in US Hegemony causes economic decline and great power wars==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zhang and Shi</span>**,** 1/22/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span> – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Advantage 3: Soybeans</span>== 

====89% of soybeans travel through inland waterways—lock closure would cause spikes in price==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USB </span>1/24/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Crumbling Inland Waterway System Puts Farmers, Consumers at Risk, Jan 24, 2012 Soybean checkoff study finds that United States could lose global competitiveness, http://www.unitedsoybean.org/media-center/releases/crumbling-inland-waterway-system-puts-farmers-consumers-at-risk/</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Just on the Ohio River alone, the accumulated shipping delays at broken-down locks has more than tripled since 2000, rising from 25,000 hours to 80,000 annually.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As stipulated in the Soybean Promotion, Research and Consumer Information Act, USDA’s Agricultural Marketing Service has oversight responsibilities for USB and the soybean checkoff.</span>

====The harsh summer has put Soybean supplies and prices on the brink==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Des Moines Register, </span>June 29<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2012</span>

Supply fears send soybean prices soaring Sales in May were the second-largest on record, spiking worries about tight stocks. Jun 29, 2012 , http://www.desmoinesregister.com/article/20120630/BUSINESS01/306300031/0/news/?odyssey=nav%7Chead

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Soybeans are going to be the story of the summer</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">,” said Sal Gilbertie, president of Teucrium, a publicly traded grain investment fund. </span>

With the short South American crop and weather concerns for the U.S., this fall will be tight.”

====US soybeans are key-to Chinese food security==== 

Alan Bierga,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Bloomberg, 2/17/12 </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alan Bjerga and Whitney McFerron - Feb 17, 2012, U.S. Exporters Make Record Single-Day Soybean Sale to China</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/print/2012-02-17/china-soybean-import-tops-one-day-record-as-ties-with-u-s-growers-expand.html]], </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Soybean exporters in the U.S., the world’s top shipper, sold 2.9</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">23 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">million metric tons to China</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> in the biggest one-day deal on record. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">People also are eating more meat, increasing the need for the oilseed to make livestock feed.</span>

====Soybeans are the only internal link to Chinese food insecurity==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dr. Wong and Dr. Huang , March 12 </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John Wong, Yanjie Huang, China's Food Security and Its Global Implications China: An International Journal, Volume 10, Number 1, March 2012, pp. 113-124 (Article), is Professorial Fellow at the East Asian Institute, National University of Singapore and Yanjie Huang (eaihuan@nus.edu.sg) is Research Assistant at the East Asian Institute, National University of Singapore.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">China’s soybean market can be singled out as the only case where imports have substituted for domestic production.</span>

<span style="font-family: AGaramond-Regular,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Apparently, an over-reliance on imported soybeans does “violate” the principle of self-sufficiency and pose some challenges to food security.</span>

====Collapse of food security would destabilize China==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">American Interest 4/29/12 </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 29, 2012, Uh Oh: World Food Prices Spike As Soy Harvest Collapses, http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2012/04/29/uh-oh-world-food-prices-spike-as-soy-harvest-collapses/</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Among the things we watch here at Via Meadia are trends in world food prices. </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2012 could be even more… interesting than we thought.</span>__

====Chinese instability will trigger world war iii.==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">THE STRAITS TIMES</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">June 28,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2003</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, p. online </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">But imagine a China disintegrating- on its own, without neo-conservative or Central Intelligence Agency prompting, much less outright military invasion because the economy (against all predictions) suddenly collapses. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">That’s why wise policy encourages Chinese stability, security and economic growth – the very direction the White House now seems to prefer</span>

==<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Observation 2: Solvency</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal Investment key to waterways</span>

Larry <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bray, </span>9/21/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> --- Center for Transportation Research, University of Tennessee, Knoxville (9/21/2011, Larry G., Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing - "The Economic Importance and Financial Challenges of Recapitalizing the Nation's Inland Waterways Transportation System,” Factiva, JMP)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Unfortunately, much of the infrastructure that currently sustains barge transport has aged beyond its design life. </span>

Assuming that the fiscal responsibility of reinvestment is appropriately apportioned between all those who benefit - both directly and indirectly - from available inland navigation, the federal government's share of this responsibility will represent a prudent and equitable expenditure of public funds.

====States don’t have jurisdiction over plan==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stern </span>April<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 12</span> (Congressional Research Service, Anaylst in Natural Resources Policy, April 12, “Inland waterways: recent proposals and issues for congress”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41430.pdf]]</span>, pg. 1)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Through the early 1800s, inland waterway development was left to the states, until the SupremeCourt gave the United States authority over interstate commerce in 1824.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Improvements in other forms of transportation, including rail and highway, have decreased reliance on inland waterways as a means of commercial freight transportation, but these waterways remain a significant component in the nation’s transportation mix for many bulk commodities. </span>

====Private Sector won’t invest until after the federal government does.==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bray, 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> --- Center for Transportation Research, University of Tennessee, Knoxville (9/21/2011, Larry G., Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing - "The Economic Importance and Financial Challenges of Recapitalizing the Nation's Inland Waterways Transportation System,” Factiva, JMP)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Has Aging Infrastructure Left US Inland Navigation at a Crossroads? </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">If you ask the currently retiring generation of railroaders about regrets, wrongly-abandoned routes that can never be restored will top many lists.</span>

====Investment tax credits would encourage private investment in transportation infrastructure.==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Department of Transportation, 2011</span> April America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Investment tax credits are reductions in the tax that companies pay on their profits if they invest in certain types of equipment or infrastructure. </span>

<span class="TitleChar">Direct beneficiaries of investment tax credits would be vessel owners and operators and shoreside infrastructure owners</span>


=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
==Politics== 
==States CP== 
==Private CP== 
==Case== 
==Heidegger K== 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]