[[toc]]
=September-October= 
JV Yale
==Affirmative== 
__**Due Process AC**__
As a starting point for morality, all moral theories presume the inherent worth of moral agents as grounds for constraints upon action, otherwise morality would have no reason to require anything.
**QUINN**
Quinn, Warren S. Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing. The Philosophical Review, Vol. 98, No. 3 (Jul., 1989). JSTOR. <<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|http://www.jstor.org]]</span>/stable/2185021>

Any restriction of autonomy demands justification. Only constitutional due process protections protects individual freedom by allowing fair trials to determine guilt.
**ALLAN**
Allan, T.R.S. Procedural Fairness and the Duty of Respect. Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 18, No. 3 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 497-515. Oxford University Press.

An institutional set of impartial standards provides a procedural basis of enforcement of moral norms.
**RAWLS**
John Rawls. "A Theory of Justice, Revised Edition." 10. INSTITUTIONS AND FORMAL JUSTICE

The NDAA permits indefinite detention of noncitizens based on executive discretion, barring the right to due process and trial.
**NDAA**
The National Defense Authorization Act. H.R. 1540, 112 Cong. (2011) (enacted). Print. "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, Section 1021."

Even if non-citizens are granted trial, military tribunals restrict access to adequate legal counsel, denying them a fair trial to defend themselves.
**WANG**
Tova Andrea Wang, Senior Program Officer and Democracy Fellow at The Century Foundation. "The Military Tribunals Debate." The Century Foundation. 2003.

Lower standards for evidence increase the likelihood of wrongful conviction.
**WANG 2**

Lack of judicial review prevents any recourse in wrongful convictions.
**WANG 3**

Lack of public trials and civilian jury for non-citizens subverts transparency and public scrutiny, skewing trial decisions.
**TURNER**
SERRIN TURNER, Harvard Law School, Associate Counsel for the Liberty & National Security Project at the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law, and STEPHEN J. SCHULHOFER, Robert B. McKay Professor of Law at NYU Law School. "THE SECRECY PROBLEM IN TERRORISM TRIALS." LIBERTY & NATIONAL SECURITY PROJECT. BRENNAN CENTER FOR JUSTICE AT NYU SCHOOL OF LAW. 2005.

Only civilian courts have a multiple safeguards to prevent intelligence leak and promotes the use of high quality evidence, improving fair trial procedures.
**TURNER 2**

Constitutional law and historical precedent mandate that non-citizens receive the same due process protections as citizens- any alternative lacks the fair standards of civilian court.
**COLE**
David Cole, Professor of Law, Georgetown University Law Center. “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?.” Georgetown Law Faculty Publications. March 2010.

Violations of due process open the door for additional restrictions of civil liberties.
**MORELAND**
Thomas H. Moreland, Chair of Committee on Federal Courts. The Association of the Bar of the City of New York Committee on Federal Courts. THE INDEFINITE DETENTION OF “ENEMY COMBATANTS”: BALANCING DUE PROCESS AND NATIONAL SECURITY IN THE CONTEXT OF THE WAR ON TERROR. 2004.

Lack of due process undermines credibility of the rule of law and encourages other countries to uphold the same standards of unfair treatment for U.S. citizens.
**RADDACK**
Jesselyn A. Radack. "You Say Defendant, I Say Combatant: Opportunistic Treatment of Terrorism Suspects Held in the United States and the Need for Due Process." Review of Law & Social Change. Volume 29. 2005.
==Negative== 
__**NSC CP**__
CP TEXT: The United States ought to create a National Security Court to try non-citizens accused of terrorism.
**MCCARTHY AND VELSHI**
Andrew C. McCarthy, 2009, Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and Alykhan Velshi, Staff Attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, “We Need a National Security Court."

__**Intel DA**__
Respecting the inherent worth of individuals requires saving the greatest amount possible for an impartial decision-maker.
**RAKOWSKI**
Eric Rakowski. “Taking and Saving Lives.” Columbia Law Review. June 1993.

I contend affirming threatens the wellbeing of US citizens- the negative advocates treatment of non-citizens accused of terrorism in military tribunals because only they protect classified information.
**ELSEA 10**
Jennifer K. Elsea, Congressional Research Service, Legislative Attorney. "The Military Commissions Act of 2009: Overview and Legal Issues." April 6, 2010.

Due to superior intelligence, status quo counterterrorism efforts are successful.
**CARAFANO et al. 11**
James Jay Carafano, Deputy Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, Jena Baker McNeill, Jessica Zuckerman, Research Associate at Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, May 20, 2011, “39 Terror Plots Foiled Since 9/11: Examining Counterterrorism’s Success Stories” The Heritage Foundation.

Due process forces the public announcement and disclosure of critical secret terrorist intel.
**MCCARTHY**
Andrew C. McCarthy, 2009, Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, lead prosecutor in the seditious conspiracy trial against Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman and eleven others, and Alykhan Velshi, Staff Attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, “We Need a National Security Court” AEI.

This is empirically verified.
**KRAUTHAMMER**
Charles Krauthammer, American Pulitzer Prize-winning syndicated columnist, political commentator, and physician. His column is syndicated to more than 275 newspapers and media outlets. “In defense of secret tribunals," CNN Politics. November 19th, 2001.

Disclosure requirements make foreign allies less willing to provide us with intelligence.
**MCCARTHY 2**

Good intelligence is key to counterterrorism efforts- it reduces the risk by 90%, self-reported by al-Qaeda terrorists themselves.
**COBURN 11**
Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011.

The impact is extinction– a strike by terrorists culminates in global nuclear war and destruction.
**MORGAN**
Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies. "World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race." South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009.

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
Columbia
Harvard
==Affirmative== 
I affirm.

Rehabilitation is defined as:
http://www.thefreedictionary.com/rehabilitation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To restore to good health or useful life, as through therapy and education.</span>

In the affirmative world, all adults and juveniles will be treated in a criminal justice system that emphasizes rehabilitation over retribution through Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT) with anger control and interpersonal problem solving components as a mandatory program for convicted high risk offenders. I reserve the right to clarify.

Milkman clarifies the advocacy. CBT is the most effective form of Rehabilitation.
Milkman
Harvey Milkman, Ph.D., Department of Psychology, Metropolitan State College of Denver, Denver, Colorado, Kenneth Wanberg, Th.D., Ph.D., Center for Addictions Research and Evaluation (CARE), COGNITIVE-BEHAVIORAL TREATMENT: A Review and Discussion for Corrections Professionals, May 2007
Cognitive-behavioral therapy comes....outcomes in society.

I value morality.
**The origin of government is based on individuals coming together to centralize power under a sovereign to provide protections to its citizens. Governments are thus obligated to the public good so it derives its authority from fulfilling its obligations. WEST**
Robin West. "Rights, Capabilities, and the Good Society." Fordham Law Review Vol. 69 Issue 5.
Second, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a recognition...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">duty of government</span>.

**Additionally, the moral equality of persons demands a utilitarian approach to policy making.**
**Rakowski**
“Taking and Saving Lives” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), pp. 1063-1156 Published by: Columbia Law Review Association, Inc. Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960
On one side....to do so.

**Thus the standard is maximizing expected well being**.

AND, Prefer systematic empirical analysis as opposed to ridiculous impact scenarios.
CNN writes (<span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://money.cnn.com/2009/02/17/pf/experts_Tetlock.moneymag/index.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Yet we can't...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tended to be.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that CBT reduces recidivism.</span></span>

1. A meta-analysis study conducted by Landenberger and Lipsey concluded that CBT would reduce recidivism by 52% compared to retribution.
Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment, [[http://restorativejustice.pbworks.com/f/Landenberger_Lipsey.pdf]], The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">When the corresponding...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">in this meta- analysis.</span>

2. CBT is the best rehabilitation program.
Milkman 2
Harvey Milkman, Ph.D., Department of Psychology, Metropolitan State College of Denver, Denver, Colorado, Kenneth Wanberg, Th.D., Ph.D., Center for Addictions Research and Evaluation (CARE), COGNITIVE-BEHAVIORAL TREATMENT: A Review and Discussion for Corrections Professionals, May 2007
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Traditional psychotherapy is...</span>skills rehearsal exercises.

Prefer this study for the following reasons:

a. The study is the most consistent since it pooled data from over 40 years.
Lipsey 2.
Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment, [[http://restorativejustice.pbworks.com/f/Landenberger_Lipsey.pdf]], The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Computerized bibliography searches...none were missed</span>.

b. This study took 2947 studies of CBT and chose the best 58 to analyze-Prefer this to their evidence because it is more consistent.
Lipsey 3
<span class="DebateHighlight">The search for...the present meta-analysis.</span>
c. The program used for meta-analysis was developed for this system—prefer it to generic protocol.
Lipsey 4
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Descriptive and outcome...12 months post-treatment</span>.

AND, Increased recidivism has four impacts. **Wilson**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wilson, Jane [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.] //Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States//, Roosevelt Review, 2007. http://www.scribd.com/doc/19695235/Juvenile-Recidivism</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The effects of...</span>cycle of crime.

Two wrongs don’t make a right, making retribution nonsensical. You can’t unrape or unkill a victim, so it can't create a benefit to the community. **MACKIE**
J. L. Mackie. "Morality and the Retributive Emotions." Criminal Justice Ethics. 1982.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It i</span>s often...explain positive retributivism.

Thus, you affirm.
==Negative== 
__**Desert NC**__
Only the concept of desert allows individuals to control how they are treated by others.
**RACHELS**
Rachels, James. "Punishment and Desert," originally appeared in Ethics in Practice, edited by Hugh LaFollette (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1997), pp. 470-479.

If desert is a side constraint on any ethical theory, than we must value retribution over rehabilitation.
**LESSNOFF** defines "retribution" as
Michael Lessnoff, 1971. Reader in Politics and Associate Research Fellow at the University of Glasgow, "TWO JUSTIFICATIONS OF PUNISHMENT." Wiley and The Philosophical Quarterly.
"By 'the retributive theory'...irrelevant to its justification."
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]