AFF
=****AFF****= 
=1ac - plan= 
The United States federal government should substantially increase investment to modernize inland waterways infrastructure.
=1ac - inherency= 
**First is inherency --** 
**Inland waterways are massively underfunded and failing in the status quo – by 2020 80% of locks will be obsolete**
**ASCE 12** <span style="font-size: 11px;">[American Society of Civil Engineers, “ASCE Tells Congress More Must Be Invested in Inland Waterways”, May]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Testifying on April 18 before the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, James A. Rossberg, P.E., M.ASCE, the Society’s managing director ... say, ‘We weren’t told.’”</span>

=1ac - econ= 
Advantage <One> is the economy --
Subpoint A is Stimulus
**Investment in inland waterways is crucial to increasing employment and sustainable shipping.**
**Aging infrastructure means a failure could come at any time and collapse the economy.**
**House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee 11** <span style="font-size: 11px;">[“HEARING FOCUSES ON ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF AGING U.S. INLAND WATERWAYS SYSTEM”, Press Release, September 21]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">“</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">Transportation savings are a key ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> the Corps’ project delivery performance.</span>

=1ac - econ= 
<span class="UnderlineBold">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Subpoint B is congestion</span>**</span>
Congestion on highways and railroads causes prices to skyrocket and hurts the economy
**US DOT 7** <span style="font-size: 11px;">[U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, “The Maritime Administration and the U.S. Marine Transportation System: A Vision for the 21 st Century”, November, http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Vision_of_the_21st_Century_10-29.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">What about the cost of ..., but there are also solutions to them.</span>

**Inland waterways relieve congestion**
**US DOT 7** <span style="font-size: 11px;">[U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, “The Maritime Administration and the U.S. Marine Transportation System: A Vision for the 21 st Century”, November, http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Vision_of_the_21st_Century_10-29.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The greater use of America’s ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> expand the Marine Highway System.</span>

=1ac - econ= 
<span class="UnderlineBold">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Subpoint C is trade</span>**</span>
<span class="UnderlineBold">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Inland waterways are crucial to domestic and foreign trade as other transportation methods at capacity</span>**</span>
<span class="UnderlineBold">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Nachtmann and Pohl 11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">[Heather, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Industrial Engineering at the University of Arkansas, and Letitia, PhD, an aircraft logistics analyst for the Air Force, “Sustaining Resilient Inland Waterways via Renewable Energy”, July, http://www.uark.edu/rd_engr/MBTC/MBTC_DHS_1108.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The U.S. transportation system</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> consists of a ... to either natural or manmade causes. </span>

=1ac - econ= 
<span class="UnderlineBold">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Maritime trade is the keystone of the economy. Inland waterways need to be modernized now to accommodate larger vessels from the widening of the Panama Canal</span>**</span>
<span class="UnderlineBold">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">USACE 12</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> [US Army Corps of Engineers, Institute for Water Resources, “U.S. Port and Inland Waterways Modernization Strategy: Options for the Future”, April 2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The health of the U.S. ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">Century will have these characteristics:</span>

Independently, trade solves war—it creates relationships that cement peace
<span style="font-family: 'garamond','serif'; font-size: 17px;">Boudreux 6</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">[Donald J. Boudreux, Chairman of the economics department at George Mason University, 11/20/06, “Want world peace? Support free trade,” http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">During the past 30 years</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, ...</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">tolerate, harm to these foreigners.</span>
=1ac - econ= 
And, economic decline causes war – statistics prove
<span style="font-family: 'garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Royal 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">[Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif';">Less intuitive is how periods ... debate and deserves more attention. </span>


=1ac - heg= 

**Advantage** <Two> **is hegemony --**
**Subpoint A is sealift –**
**Failing inland waterways are hampering military transport**
**Jackson 7**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Colonel Donald, “Leveraging the Strategic Value of the U.S. Inland Waterway System”, March 14, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469583]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The USDOT is the lead ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> the government and transportation stakeholders.</span>

**And, inland waterways are key to providing military supplies and power projection**
**Jackson 7**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Colonel Donald, “Leveraging the Strategic Value of the U.S. Inland Waterway System”, March 14, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469583]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Contributions of the U.S. Inland ...</span><span style="font-size: 13px;"> low profile, and off the public radar.</span>

=1ac - heg= 
<span class="UnderlineBold">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Lack of maritime transportation infrastructure devastates hegemony and military readiness</span>**</span>
**US DOT 7** <span style="font-size: 11px;">[U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, “The Maritime Administration and the U.S. Marine Transportation System: A Vision for the 21 st Century”, November, http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Vision_of_the_21st_Century_10-29.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The U.S. merchant marine has a... equipment to suppor t our troops.</span>

**Subpoint B is competitiveness –** 
**Inland waterways are key to US competitiveness – other nations are ramping up investment and the US is falling behind**
**Casavant 2k** <span style="font-size: 11px;">[Ken, Professor of Agricultural Economics, Washington State University, “Inland Waterborne Transportation – An Industry Under Siege”, November]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Because much of U.S. agricultural ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">to international and domestic markets.</span>

=1ac - heg= 
**Competitiveness is key to hegemony**
**Tellis 9** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(Ashley, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States, Global Asia, accessed on July 14, 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalasia.org/Back_Issues/Volume_4_Number_1_Spring_2009/Preserving_Hegemony_The_Strategic_Tasks_Facing_the_United_States.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Second, and equally importantly, who ...conclusive attainment of these larger encompassing goals.</span>

And, perception of US economic weakness collapses hegemony
<span style="font-family: 'garamond','serif'; font-size: 17px;">Rothkopf 8</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> [David Rothkopf is chairman of the National Strategic Investment Forum Dialogue, a forum convening leading institutional investors for discussions about critical issues of investment strategy. “9/11 Was Big. This Is Bigger.” URL: </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp%20dyn/content/article/2008/10/03/AR2008100301969.html|http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp dyn/content/article/2008/10/03/AR2008100301969.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">. DA:7/14/11]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">On </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">Sept. 16, 2001, President Bush ... leaders would never have dreamt of. </span>

=1ac - heg= 
**Hegemony is key to deterrence and conflict containment—it prevents every scenario for global war**
**Felzenberg and Gray 11** <span style="font-size: 8px;">[Alvin S. Felzenberg, Professorial Lecturer at The Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, Presidential Historian and Adjunct Faculty Member at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, former Fellow at the Institute of Politics at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, served as Principal Spokesman for the 9/11 Commission, holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Princeton University,--- and Alexander B. Gray, Student at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and the War Studies Department of King’s College, London, 01-03-2011 “The New Isolationism,” The National Review, January 3rd, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/256150]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Anything Reps. Ron Paul (R., Tex.) and Barney Frank (D., Mass.) both support should give the rest of us pause. Their proposal to slash defense spending by $1 trillion over a decade — only the most recent joint effort by the new isolationists on the Left and Right </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">to curtail ... at sea, and in the air.</span>
=1ac - solvency= 
**Next is solvency --** 
**Federal government investment to modernize the inland waterway system is key**
**Jackson 7**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Colonel Donald, “Leveraging the Strategic Value of the U.S. Inland Waterway System”, March 14, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469583]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Navigation industry groups argue ...</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">transportation network for the 21 st Century. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Negative </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Race K</span>