**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Table of contents:</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Poem Come on and bring the Reparations by Sekou Sundiata</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">W-4 by Dead Prez</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Break to Read</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Chorus</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Read</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Chorus</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">(UGK- International Players Anthem)</span>**

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">*W-4 by Dead Prez*</span>//</span></span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Yo</span>//</span></span>

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Goin out.....</span>//</span></span>

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">GIMME MY SHIT BACK</span>//</span></span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Tyler and I believe that the judge should vote for the team that best challenges the underlying assumptions of oppression embedded in transportation infrastructure. We endorse a reparations movement for the Black body that that has been perpetually transported till this minute and still have nothing to show for it and we know we are not the only ones. Therefore, we demand the USFG pay the public transportation fare for the Black body for 10 years. Let the ballot serve as a mechanism of affirmation of our movement. Bring on the reparations.</span>

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">*Hook*</span>//</span></span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Africans to Black</span>//</span></span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Built the world on our backs</span>//</span></span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Reparations what we need</span>//</span></span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Make us free on track</span>//</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Sexton ‘07 Black Body Starting point-</span>**//__<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> Sexton 2007</span>__//**<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> [Jarod, Assistant professor of Africana Studies at UC Irvine, “Racial Profiling and the Societies of Control,” //Warfare in the American Homeland: Policing and Prison in a Penal Democracy//, p. 209-212]</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> “</span>__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Residential segregation…</span>__<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> one intersection, but all.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Robinson ‘04 Reparations- Randall Robinson*6 Afr.-Am. L. & Pol'y Rep. 1 Tue Jul 17 2004 </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">“Leadership means the first to believe…. decency in a viable Democratic society…”</span>


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Wilderson 10 Reparations movement- Frank B. Wilderson, “Wallowing in the Contradictions”, Part 1 July 09 2010</span>
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">“FW:</span>**<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> Reparations suggests a conceptually coherent loss….This is the only thing that will save us”</span>


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Yancy 04 Power of the word (Hip Hop)- Our history is written in the language of hip hop and we will continue to use it to speak truth back to power Yancy beautifully wrote Yancy 04[Geneva Smitherman: The Social Ontology of African-American Language, the Power of Nommo, and the Dynamics of Resistance and Identity Through Language]</span>
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">“Some just don’t want to recognize.... yo style oughta reflect it.”</span>**

Jay-O @ Yale, 2012

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">“EVERYONES INDIVIDUAL EXPERIENCE IS UNIQUE</span></span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">IT’S CONCRETE…</span></span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">SEE WE COULD BE ACADEMIC AUTHORS AND STILL BE CREATIVE”</span></span>