=__FYI__= 
===**Guess rather I put the 1Ac up or not I will hear framework in the 1nc so might as well take my chances and hope that you read the text and come up with something better. If you need any further help so you can be creative email me at daiquan.r@gmail.com :)**=== 

**For neg stuff email crazedstryker@gmail.com**
=__**Affirmative**__= 
==__**Valley 1AC**__== 
==**Part 1: The Lacuna Matata of Progress**== 
===**<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB';">All the way from New York with Robert Mosses to St. Paul Minnesota with the Rondo neighborhoods transportation policies have ripped apart and destroyed integrated communities seen as contaminated by the “black.” Highways used as tools of white flight freeing those deemed white spurring Hyper-ghettoization to police the color line. </span>**=== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Loïc Wacquant 01 (professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Institute for Legal Research, Boalt Law School, University of California at Berkeley Ph.D in Sociology,” Deadly Symbiosis When Ghetto and Prison Meet and Mesh”, 2001)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To explain the astounding...........</span><span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">germane proﬁles in economic marginality and social dis-integration. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB'; font-size: 11pt;">the middle passage and other policing apparatus structures all prove how White Supremacy was and still is crucial to the formation of policies of the past and is still today</span>**
Rodriguez ~’07<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dylan, PhD in Ethnic Studies Program of the University of California Berkeley and Associate Proffessor of Ethnic Studies at University of California Riverside, “American Globality And the US Prison regime: State Violence And White Supremacy from Abu Ghraib to Stockton to bagong diwa”, Ateneo de Manila University, 2007, Kritika Kultura 9 (2007): 022-048]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the theoretical purposes of this essay,.......the Prison as it is conventionally conceived.</span>


===**<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB';">This year’s topic is centered on US transportation infrastructure and the mobility that it brings to communities in need. The construction of this year’s resolution mirrors academia’s attempt to host formations of spatial violence within transportation policies as emblems of a bygone era of white supremacy. When in reality America’s foundational transportation policy was the middle passage and our ignobility to this allows the bodily immobilization architectures within this mass-based ontological subjection to resurface and form our everyday lives. </span>**=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Childs 09</span><span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dennis, Ph.D. Professor in African American Literature at UC Berkeley , “</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">"You Ain't Seen Nothin' Yet": Beloved, the American Chain Gang,</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and the Middle Passage Remix” </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">American Quarterly, Volume 61, Number 2, June 2009, pp. 271-297)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Even though the gangs came about as ,..................</span><span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">right along with the text’s putatively dead ghost-child</span><span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>




===**<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB';">Don’t get it twisted. This is not some cry for land. It’s about the black body’s dispossession of capacity which has created a false universality of progress that has historically been those deemed white attempt to rationalize it. When in reality the slave and the master capacity is mutually exclusive. It is our job to destroy the fidelity to the promise land and face the trauma of the original accumulation.</span>**=== 
Farley ~’08
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Anthony Paul Farley, James Campbell Matthews Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence at Albany Law School, "The Station" 2008)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB'; font-size: 8pt;">There were relations before the violence of accumula­tion......which means that time must be taken or seized.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">There were relations before the violence of accumula­tion.......which means that time must be taken or seized.</span>




==Part 2: Power to The People== 



**Yo debate has become a place where we have to hide beliefs and what not. That's not cool. Same lovely card that a lot of performance teams read.**
DSRB ~’08
<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE DSRB 2008 ~~[Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF "ACTING BLACK": HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE"page</span>
15~~]

===**<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB';">Hip hop and soul music have historically created an artistic medium for revolution in all spaces – our performance of such polytonal rebellions is an extension of that revolution.</span>**=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NEAL ‘08</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">NEAL Assc Prof of Black Popular Culture in the Program in African-American Studies @ DUKE 2k8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Mark Anthony-//Sold Out On Soul//; The Hip Hop Reader edited by Tim Strode, Nassau Community College and Tim Wood, Nassau Community College; taken from the Fall 1997 issue of Popular Music and Society; pp.76-77</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> In an influential essay initially published in //Esquire// ............</span><span style="font-family: 'Agency FB',sans-serif;">the African American experience.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__**Negative**__</span>= 
The Drowned K
Cap K
Race K
Churchill K
T