[[toc]]
=Cite Requests= 
If we forget to post something in a timely manner send an e-mail to [[mailto:kevinj.ward1@gmail.com|kevinj.ward1@gmail.com]] (neg) or [[mailto:mpharks@gmail.com|mpharks@gmail.com]] (aff)
=Round 1 Politics= 
**A. Uniqueness – Obama will win the election now.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul </span>**Weisman**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a staff writer for the Associated Press, “Swing-state unemployment down, Obama's chances up,” </span>**4/22**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2012, http://news.yahoo.com/swing-state-unemployment-down-obamas-chances-140909615--finance.html</span>

__The improving economy is swinging …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. </span>

**B. LINK**

**C. That guts Obama’s second-term agenda – he will be lame duck from day one.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Julian </span>**Zelizer**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, CNN Contributor, “Campaign rhetoric may tie next president's hands,” </span>**4/23**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2012, http://www.cnn.com/2012/04/23/opinion/zelizer-winning-governing/index.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If Barack Obama and Mitt … delivering on these core ideas.</span>

**D. Obama is key to solve climate – the impact is extinction.**
**Buffalo News**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Stakes are high in race for president,” </span>**4/22**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2012, http://www.buffalonews.com/editorial-page/viewpoints/article822432.ece</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite what you hear from … this life-and-death issue.</span>


=Round 1= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: arial,sans,sans-serif; text-align: left;">vs SFL YJ (Shuttles) -- T-Pre-existing; Futurism/Edelman K; Election Politics; OSTP Recommendation CP -- 2NR: Predictions K</span>
=Round 2= 
vs GBN BS -- Mars Aff
==Mars Aff- TOC== 
===Impact Framing Contention=== 
Contention one is Impact Calculus
First is the impact—numerous insurmountable scenarios for extinction exist
Popular Science 3/16 (Ben Austen, 2011, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=1, MH)
Earth won’t always be fit for occupation. … human beings who live off the Earth than on it.”

If Stephen Hawking is scared, you should be too. Extinction is inevitable within the next hundred years and our only chance is to get off the rock.
Szklarski 11/19 (Cassandra, staff writer for Canadian Press, 2011, “Human survival depends on space exploration, says Stephen Hawking”, http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/canada/breakingnews/human-survival-depends-on-space-exploration-says-stephen-hawking-134135238.html, MH)

TORONTO - Stephen Hawking says … further study into how to make space colonization possible.

Every delay in space colonization risks a hundred trillion lives per second
Bostrum, 02 – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University [Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]

As I write these words, suns are … postponement of colonization of our supercluster.[6]

Second, policymakers should use utilitarianism
a. Uncertainty
Goodin, fellow in philosophy at Australian National Defense University, 1990 (Robert, “The Utilitarian Response”, p. 141-2)

My larger argument turns on … – to chose general rules or conduct.

b. It’s calculative, the best way of making decisions—we have an obligation to everyone
Gauthier 7 (David, 1 Department of Political Science, Illinois Wesleyan University, “Levinas and the Politics of Hospitality,” HISTORY OF POLITICAL THOUGHT. Vol. XXVIII. No. 1. Spring 2007)
In his two major works, … aspect of the Levinasian human fraternity: monotheism.

c. The focus on short-term impacts is bad—failure to think on a longer time scale invites human extinction
VERSCHUUR 1996 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)
There is an even more subtle reason … is worth thinking about.

d. preparing for the worst means preserving humanity, these extinction are key to motivating the public
Engdahl 6 (Sylvia, degree from the University of California at Santa Barbara, graduate studies at Portland State University, October 2006, “Achieving Human Commitment to Space Colonization: Is Fear the Answer?”, http://lifeboat.com/ex/fear.and.space, MH)
Recently, however, I have come to believe that … of furthering our common humanity."

Nuclear war doesn’t lead to extinction
a. No nuclear winter
Seitz, 06 – former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html)
All that remains of Sagan's Big Chill … feature so much smoke so far aloft for so long?

b. The media—it’s all hype
Martin, 82 (Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html)
(k) Media. The media … over the form and content of the media.

c. Logistics—not enough of the warheads will explode
Martin, 82 (Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National .. suddenly or builds up gradually.[48]

Finally, Great power war is obsolete – cooperation is more likely than competition
Deudney, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, and Ikenberry, Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, 9
(Daniel, John, Jan/Feb, Foreign Affairs, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” proquest, accessed 6-15-11, CMM)

This bleak outlook is based on an .. renewed value of international integration and cooperation.
===Solvency=== 
Contention two is Mars
It’s feasible it takes a month—Ion chemical rockets or asteroid hitchhiking
Popular Science 3/16 (Ben Austen, 2011, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=1, MH)
Once we get beyond low Earth ..destination in six to 10 months.

The planet is more hospitable than earth
Taylor 12/12 (Chris, graduate of Merton College, Oxford and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, 2011, “Mars Has More Room for Life Than Earth [STUDY]”, http://mashable.com/2011/12/12/mars-more-life-earth/, MH)
Fans of epic Mars-based sci-fi novels, from Edgar Rice Burroughs to Kim Stanley Robinson, got some more Red Planet-based reading material to fire their imaginations Monday. A comprehensive survey … the necessary air pressure.

Ignore their biology arguments
Liquid water was just discovered
Bodzash 12/12 (Dennis, newsletter editor for Northeast Ohio's Black River Astronomical Society, 2011, “The strongest evidence yet for water on Mars”, http://www.examiner.com/space-news-in-national/the-strongest-evidence-yet-for-water-on-mars, MH)
Right now, the Mars .. this biggest Mars question of all.

Radiation is not a problem
Zubrin 6/28/2011 – president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.132-133)
By the way, contrary .. for a piloted Mars mission.

We can reverse anti-gravitational effects,
Zubrin 11 – NPR interview with Zubrin (July 1, “Is Settling Mars Inevitable, Or An Impossibility?” http://www.npr.org/2011/07/01/137555244/is-settling-mars-inevitable-or-an-impossibility )
FLATOW: What about the trip? .. severe and should be avoided.

We can grow food
Zubrin 11 – NPR interview with Zubrin (July 1, “Is Settling Mars Inevitable, Or An Impossibility?” http://www.npr.org/2011/07/01/137555244/is-settling-mars-inevitable-or-an-impossibility )
FLATOW: And once you got there…, and you can grow crops there.

Disease doesn’t matter
Netea et al. 10—all 4 have PhD’s in medicine or biology (Mihai G. Netea, Ph.D.1,2, Frank L. van de Veerdonk, Ph.D.1,2, Marc Strous, Ph.D.2,3, and Jos W.M. van der Meer, Ph.D., Journal of Cosmology, 2010, Vol 12, 3846-3854. JournalofCosmology.com, October-November, 2010, Infection Risk of a Human Mission to Mars, http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars129.html)

Therefore, the most likely life .. to a second 'vulnerable' host.

The Martian frontier is critical to colonize deep space—diffuse network of colonies guarantee preservation
Zubrin 6/28/2011 – president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, Epilogue)
The universe is vast. Its …f the old frontier. But Mars will not wait forever.

Status quo missions fail
Zubrin 11—aerospace engineer, Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (Robert, 22 May 2011, Debate Between Zubrin and Simberg, “The Great PJ Media Space Debate,” http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/the-great-pj-media-space-debate/)
If we want to again ..humans to Mars in 2020 than we are today.

Zuberin is more than qualified, prefer his analysis on everything
Space Fellowship 6/28/2011 (The International Space Fellowship news agency, “This Week on The Space Show”, http://spacefellowship.com/news/art26063/this-week-on-the-space-show.html)
Dr. Robert Zubrin is .. Red Planet,” is a must read.
===Generics are Frowned Upon=== 
NASA is comparatively the best agency for Mars exploration—empirics prove
CSM 11 [November 11, 2011, Pete Spotts, Staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor, “Failed Russian space mission shows difficulty of exploring Mars,” http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2011/1111/Failed-Russian-space-mission-shows-difficulty-of-exploring-Mars]
In one sense, the world's … flybys, orbiters, and rovers.

The free market can’t and won’t solve space development—too long term
Hickman 99—Ph. D. Associate Professor of Government, Department of Government and International Relations at Berry College [John Hickman, “The Political Economy of Very Large Space Projects,” Journal of Evolution and Technology, Volume 4, November 1999, http://www.jetpress.org/volume4/space.pdf] long time period=5 years
Attempting to persuade investors … increases their opportunity costs.

And Mars is the most popular destination for the public—we can get there on current human spaceflight budgets
Thompson 2011—PhD, Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates, former professor at Georgetown and Harvard (Loren B, 25 April 2011, http://www.marssociety.org/home/press/announcements/newstudyhumanspaceflight-marsisthedestinationthatmatters)
There is only one way that … we as a people have lost.

No other country can do this. Status quo plans are frazzled. 3-5 Billion more speeds up the process.
KAPLAN 10 – Exec Editor of PC Magazine (Jeremy A., “NASA Scientist Publishes 'Colonizing the Red Planet,' a How-To Guide”, edited for gendered language, http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/30/nasa-scientist-publishes-colonizing-red-planet-guide/#ixzz1QUXVmFVN)
A manned [staffed] mission to Mars … could do it in half the time."

No turns the case arguments—we’ll defend durable fiat, and even if cuts happen Mars becomes a sacred cow
Politico, “Shooting for the moon amid cuts,” 4/20/2011, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0411/53495.html
For all the rhetoric .. $215 million over five months.

Finally, death is bad. It’s painful and irreversible.
Moore and Williamson 3 (Calvin Conzelus- professor of sociology, John B. Cleveland State university, and professor of sociology, Boston College, 2003 Handbook of death & dying, Volume 1 By Clifton D. Bryant pg 3)
Is the fear of death universal? Anthropologist … natural reactions to encounters with death (Charmaz 1980).


=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1624.5px; width: 1px;">B. is everything else—we need to get off the rock to avert them

Popular Science 3/16 (Ben Austen, 2011, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=1, MH)

Earth won’t always be fit for occupation. We … will be more human beings who live off the Earth than on it.”</span>