[[toc]]
Aff Stuff: gercha1@nths219.org
Neg Stuff: niccha2@nths219.org
=Affirmative= 
==SST== 
===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20-%20Plan|1AC - Plan]]=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially expand United States Maritime Administration Title XI loan guarantee funding for short sea transportation within the United States.**
===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20-%20Solvency|1AC - Solvency]]=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">A comprehensive federal expansion of Title XI loan guarantees mitigates congestion and creates conditions favorable for private investment – the plan reverses the only barrier to short sea transportation</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Cook, 11</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">*Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">For more than a decade....is being purchased by the vessel owner and included as a transaction cost.</span>**</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, the plan reduces risk and creates the financial backing necessary for short sea shipping</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Margaronis, 08</span>** </span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">[Green Ships Can Fight Global Warming, president of California-based Santa Maria Shipowning & Trading Inc, p. online document retrieved via a google download, full text email</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[mailto:alexanderdpappas@gmail.com|alexanderdpappas@gmail.com]]</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">A loan guarantee....companies that hope to build ships.</span>**</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Stabilizing the shipbuilding industry would reduce costs and solve institutional problems</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Cropsey,</span>** **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">12</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropsey, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Knowledge of shipbuilding .....a rapidly shrinking supplier base.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only federal action can solve, states would be in violation of the commerce clause.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wright, 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">M.A. in Social Sciences: Environment and Community @ Humboldt State University (Jay D. Wright, “A POLICY ANALYSIS OF THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION’S HYDROELECTRIC RELICENSING PROCESS”, Humboldt State University, August 2006, [[http://humboldt-dspace.calstate.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/2148/102/FERC%20Hydroelectric%20Relicensing%20Thesis.pdf?sequence=1]] | AK)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The first federal involvement in …….. powers other federal agencies simply do not possess.</span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Econ|1AC Adv - Econ]]=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">The plan generates a massive economic stimulus and reduces oil dependence – loan guarantees are the most effective catalyst for widespread investment</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Margaronis, 08</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Marine highway would ride wave of economic benefits, Stas, Guest Columnist Seattle Pi, 1998. Prior to forming the California-based shipping company, Margaronis served as Mid-Atlantic correspondent for the Atlantic Journal of Transportation from 1996 to 1997. He covered U.S. trade from 1986 to 1997 while serving as editor of Sam Trade, a publication based in Gaithersburg, Maryland. Margaronis has also worked as a political campaign consultant in San Francisco and was a rail equipment sales representative for U.S. companies in China</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php#ixzz1yY1CGarw|http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php#ixzz1yY1CGarw]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Currently, the United States ....... shippers and consumers.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, a</span>****<span style="font-family: Cambria;">federal program</span>****<span style="font-family: Cambria;">is a vital internal link to US global competitiveness – current funding is insufficient</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Zimmer, 11</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">For the United States .......that is disheartening at best.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Oil dependence causes extinction</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Rosen, 10</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Deputy General Counsel at the Center for Naval Analyses & Professor of Homeland Security Law and Policy at George Washington University) 2010 “Energy Independence and Climate Change: The Economic and National Security Consequences of Failing to Act” University of Richmond Law Review, Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There is a growing consensus ..... would be held hostage. 110</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Competitiveness is key to hegemony</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Segal, 4</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Adam, Foreign Affairs, “Is America Losing Its Edge?” November / December 2004, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">) JMP</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">TheUnited States'.....entrepreneurship at home.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Great power war</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Barnett, 11</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Thomas P.M. Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Events in Libya are a further reminder for......that should make you nervous.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Congestion underlies a multibillion dollar drag on the economy – chokes any possible recovery</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Needham, 11</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Report: Traffic congestion costs billions, weighs on the economic recovery, Vicki, The Hill,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/184105-report-traffic-congestion-costs-billions-weighs-on-the-economic-recovery]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Traffic congestion is costing....is not a productive option.”</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">That recovery is fragile now – the risk of catastrophic economic failure is high</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Xinhua News, 12</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[OECD: Global Economy Recovery Fragile, reprinted,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://english.cri.cn/6826/2012/05/23/191s701502.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The global economy.... problem of income inequality."</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, the externalities act as a multiplier – decreases the underlying foundation of US economic leadership</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Lewis, 08</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[David, Senior Vice President with HDR where he serves as the firm’s Chief Economist and Direc­tor for Economics and Financial Services, He served previously as President and CEO of HLB Decision Economics, prior to which he was a Principal Economist of the U.S. Congressional Budget Office. Brookings Institution, America’s Traffic Congestion Problem: Toward a Framework for Nationwide Reform,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2008/07/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2008/7/congestion%20pricing%20lewis/07_congestion_lewis.PDF]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Apart from a handful of places around the country,.....of nearly fifty-five thousand</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, the impact is great power nuclear war</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Austin, 09</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman, Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Conversely, global policymakers do not seem to have grasped the downside risks to the global economy posed by a deteriorating domestic and international political environment. If the past is any guide, the souring of the political environment .... coalesce into a big bang//.</span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Shipbuilding%20(V1)|1AC Adv - Shipbuilding]]=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">Increased support for short sea shipping sustains the shipbuilding industry</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Raymond, 05**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Charles, President and CEO Horizon Inc. “Short Sea Shipping: Long On Benefits”,</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.inboundlogistics.com/cms/article/short-sea-shipping-long-on-benefits/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To help meet the current congestion crisis.....the part of U.S. political leaders.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, the plan reverses tidal waves of shipyard closings which decimate the industry</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Munoz, 11</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[January 11, The Obama Infrastructure Plan, and Another Shipyard Closes, OP-ED by Tony Munoz, Editor-in-Chief of the Maritime ExecutiveMagazine and the MarEx Newsletter,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As President Obama announced his robust ........ care for the poor. Imagine….</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, inland water ways are functionally limitless – the plan is the easiest means of infrastructure expansion and revitalizes the maritime sector</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Perakis and Denisis, 08</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[A survey of short sea shipping and its prospects in the USA, ANASTASSIOS N. PERAKIS* and ATHANASIOS DENISIS Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering, University of Michigan, 213 NAME Building, 2600 Draper Dr., Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2145, USA,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://intermodalmarine.com/pdfs/Survey%20of%20SSS%20Prospects%20in%20the%20U.S..pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In addition to the above environmental........ shippers, shipowners, and the public as well [46].</span>



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">And, expansion of title XI funding ensures</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">increased naval capacity</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Goure, 11</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Lexington Institute, Obama Could Create Jobs And Support Defense, Daniel, PhD,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A less well recognized.........money behind the MHI.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, a strong maritime and shipbuilding industry is a vital pre requisite to credible naval capabilities</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Alberto, et al., 5</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In conclusion, our study........... the nation of the vessel.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">A strong navy is critical to effective peacekeeping</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Vego, 8</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Naval forces are most ......... committed to full-scale combat. 9</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Peacekeeping prevents great power wars</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Dean, 95</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Adviser on international security issues for the Union of Concerned Scientists [Dean, Jonathan. (P articipated in East-West arms control negotiations and worked with U.N. peacekeepers in the field and in the State Department) “A stronger U.N. strengthens America,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. Chicago: Mar 1995. Vol. 51, Iss. 2; pg. 45Ebscohost]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Expertsthroughout the ........off an increasing number of conflicts.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Naval power is critical to effective BMD</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Vego, 8</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Operations in time of peace ..........used as terrorist weapons.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">BMD solves Russian and Chinese conflict and is critical to deterrence</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">NDU, 10</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[The Industrial College of the Armed Forces National Defense University, “Industry Study Final Report Shipbuilding Industry,” Spring 2010, p. 1,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2010/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2010.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Countering Near-Peer and ........... currently favors the Strike Group.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, naval strength secures global trade</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Batsford, et al., 11</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Commander Marc, Canadian Navy, Olivia Bradley, Department of the Navy, Captain Alan Cusi, Philippine Navy, Juan Figueroa, Department of Homeland Security, CaptainScott Galbreaith, U.S. Navy, Lieutenant Colonel Stephen Jost, U.S. Air Force, Commander Chris Mitchell, Canadian Navy, Mike Resnick, U.S. Marine Corps, Bryan Riley, Bell Helicopter – Textron, Lieutenant Colonel R.L. Shea, U.S. Marine Corps, Commander Paul Steinbrenner, U.S. Navy, Andrew Squire, Esq., U.S. Coast Guard, Commander Brett Stevens, U.S. Navy, Lieutenant Colonel Rob Wiley, U.S. Army Reserve, Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr, Linda Brandt, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, and Dr. Seth Weissman, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Vice Admiral James Perkins (Ret.), faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “Industry Study: Final Report Shipbuilding Industry”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, Spring 2011,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2011/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2011.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">No other nation .........yet affordable, maritime fleet?</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Trade solves global wars</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Griswold,</span>** **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">98</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Associate Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the CATO Institute, ‘98 (Daniel, December 31, “Peace On Earth, Free Trade For Men,” CATO Institute Daily,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.cato.org/dailys/12-31-98.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Advocates of free trade have ..........cannot cross borders, armies will."</span>

===1AC Adv - Oil=== 
1. The plan trades off with harmful polluters and stops oil dependence
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Margaronis, 08’ [Marine highway would ride wave of economic benefits, Stas, Guest Columnist Seattle Pi, 1998. Prior to forming the California-based shipping company, Margaronis served as Mid-Atlantic correspondent for the Atlantic Journal of Transportation from 1996 to 1997. He covered U.S. trade from 1986 to 1997 while serving as editor of Sam Trade, a publication based in Gaithersburg, Maryland. Margaronis has also worked as a political campaign consultant in San Francisco and was a rail equipment sales representative for U.S. companies in China</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php#ixzz1yY1CGarw|http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php#ixzz1yY1CGarw]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">] </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Currently, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri;">the U</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri;">S</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri;">is experiencing .........</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> shippers and consumers.</span>
2. Oil dependency has recently shown to be the cause of widespread conflict like the Iraq war and Saddam’s genocide on Kuwait
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Reynolds, 10’ (Lewis, American surveyor, “Seven Dangerous (and Surprising) Side Effects od US Dependence on Foreign Oil”, August 4th, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.amerisurv.com/content/view/7708/,accessed|www.amerisurv.com/content/view/7708/,accessed]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> 6-20-11, AH)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri;">It gets us into wars.........</span>//oil has bred a century of conflict.//
3. The way women are treated in Saudi Arabia is a form of dehumanization
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lantos, 02’</span> (Tom Lantos (D-Cal.) is the ranking Democrat on the House International Relations Committee. He is also co-founder of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus Discrimination, “Against Women and the Roots of Global Terrorism”, Vol. 29 No. 3, Summer 2002, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol29_2002/summer2002/irr_hr_summer02_lantos.html)
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Unfortunately, the deplorable condition ............rights for the downtrodden in the Middle East and beyond, our military victory in Afghanistan could prove hollow.</span>

4. The incentive to turn a blind eye to this torture is our oil addiction
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Snow, 11’ (Jon Snow, Jon Snow is a British journalist and presenter, currently employed by ITN. He is best known for presenting Channel 4 News. He was Chancellor of Oxford Brookes University from 2001 to 2008, “Women’s rights, oil and diplomacy”, Tuesday 21 Jun 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none;">[[http://blogs.channel4.com/snowblog/womens-rights-oil-diplomacy/15531]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I am in receipt of an email from Saudi........... in a country described as “one of our closest allies”</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri;">?</span>
===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Shipbuilding%20(V2)|1AC Adv - ]]Navy=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">Increased support for short sea shipping sustains the shipbuilding industry</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Raymond, 05** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Charles, President and CEO Horizon Inc. “Short Sea Shipping: Long On Benefits”,</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.inboundlogistics.com/cms/article/short-sea-shipping-long-on-benefits/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To help meet the current congestion crisis.....the part of U.S. political leaders.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, the plan reverses tidal waves of shipyard closings which decimate the industry</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Munoz, 11</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> [January 11, The Obama Infrastructure Plan, and Another Shipyard Closes, OP-ED by Tony Munoz, Editor-in-Chief of the Maritime ExecutiveMagazine and the MarEx Newsletter,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As President Obama announced his robust ........ care for the poor. Imagine….</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, inland water ways are functionally limitless – the plan is the easiest means of infrastructure expansion and revitalizes the maritime sector</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Perakis and Denisis, 08</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[A survey of short sea shipping and its prospects in the USA, ANASTASSIOS N. PERAKIS* and ATHANASIOS DENISIS Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering, University of Michigan, 213 NAME Building, 2600 Draper Dr., Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2145, USA,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://intermodalmarine.com/pdfs/Survey%20of%20SSS%20Prospects%20in%20the%20U.S..pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In addition to the above environmental........ shippers, shipowners, and the public as well [46].</span>



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">And, expansion of title XI funding ensures</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">increased naval capacity</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Goure, 11</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Lexington Institute, Obama Could Create Jobs And Support Defense, Daniel, PhD,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A less well recognized.........money behind the MHI.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And, a strong maritime and shipbuilding industry is a vital pre requisite to credible naval capabilities</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Alberto, et al., 5</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In conclusion, our study........... the nation of the vessel.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">A strong navy is critical to effective peacekeeping</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Vego, 8</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Naval forces are most ......... committed to full-scale combat. 9</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Peacekeeping prevents great power wars</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Dean, 95</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Adviser on international security issues for the Union of Concerned Scientists [Dean, Jonathan. (P articipated in East-West arms control negotiations and worked with U.N. peacekeepers in the field and in the State Department) “A stronger U.N. strengthens America,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. Chicago: Mar 1995. Vol. 51, Iss. 2; pg. 45Ebscohost]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Expertsthroughout the ........off an increasing number of conflicts.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Naval power is critical to effective BMD</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Vego, 8</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Operations in time of peace ..........used as terrorist weapons.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">BMD solves Russian and Chinese conflict and is critical to deterrence</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">NDU, 10</span>** </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[The Industrial College of the Armed Forces National Defense University, “Industry Study Final Report Shipbuilding Industry,” Spring 2010, p. 1,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2010/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2010.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Countering Near-Peer and ........... currently favors the Strike Group.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Increased Naval forces solve </span>**<span style="line-height: 20px;">**primacy**</span>
<span style="line-height: 20px;">**Vego**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear War</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cases</span>**

===**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1AC Adv - Isrial V.S Syria</span>**=== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. The Navy is being overstretched between Iran and China now</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Freedberg 5/21/12 Jr. - is the deputy editor for AOL Defense and is writing stories that won awards from the association of Military Reporters & Editors in 2008 and 2009, as well as an honorable mention in 2010. (Sydney J., 5-21-12, “Navy Strains To Handle Both China And Iran At Once” http://defense.aol.com/2012/05/21/navy-strains-to-handle-both-china-and-iran-at-once/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">VIRGINIA BEACH, VA: Coping </span>with....<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">the Navy needs to get right.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Naval readiness is rapidly declining now with no funding for modernization— investment is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Eaglen ’12 (3 April 2012, MacKenzie Eaglen, Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, Lanterloon,“U.S. military faces a readiness crisis,” http://lanterloon.com/u-s-military-faces-a-readiness-crisis/, AZhang)</span>

None of America’s........<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> weakness will be greater in the long run.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Increased support for short sea shipping sustains the shipbuilding industry </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Raymond, 05 (Charles, President and CEO Horizon Inc. “Short Sea Shipping: Long On Benefits”, </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www.inboundlogistics.com/cms/article/short-sea-shipping-long-on-benefits/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To help meet the current .......</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> onto the waterways </span>//requires a real commitment//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> on the part of U.S. political leaders.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. And, a strong maritime and shipbuilding industry is a vital pre requisite to credible naval capabilities </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Alberto, et al., 5 (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In conclusion, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">our </span>study<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> found that </span>the ...<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> nation of the vessel.</span>
5. A recent artillery strike has put the Israel-Syria war on the tipping point. Iran and Russia are ramping up attacks on Israel to inflict “grave consequences.”
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Greenberg, 1/31’ (Joel Greenberg, Washington Post Staff Writer posted in Jerusalem, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/syrias-allies-denounce-israeli-strike/2013/01/31/01d53fb4-6ba9-11e2-8740-9b58f43c191a_story.html]], January 31)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Syria’s allies on Thursday ....... charter and </span>//is unacceptable//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.’’</span>
6. Aircraft carrier deployment solves Syrian escalation

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Trombly, 12’ </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Daniel Trombly, 8/22/12 analyst and writer on international affairs and strategy. Contributor to “Abu Muqawama” and “Slouching Toward Columbia” “The cost of a Syria Intervention” [[http://news.usni.org/news-analysis/news/cost-syrian-intervention]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Discerning the capability of Syria’s integrated ....a Syrian air campaign—if it is to be painless—will not come cheaply.</span>

2nd is BMD
7. Naval power makes BMD effective – solves all WMD conflict
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Vego, 8’(Professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Operations in time of peace ....... **__There is also a possibility that weapons of mass destruction (WMD) could be used as terrorist weapons.__** </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">3rd is Peacekeeping:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8. A strong navy is critical to effective peacekeeping </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Vego, 8 (professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf, Deech)</span>

Naval forces <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are </span>most extensively used<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> .........</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> committed to full-scale combat. 9</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9. Peacekeeping prevents great power wars</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Dean 95 (Adviser on international security issues for the Union of Concerned Scientists (Dean, Jonathan. (P articipated in East-West arms control negotiations and worked with U.N. peacekeepers in the field and in the State Department) “A stronger U.N. strengthens America,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. Chicago: Mar 1995. Vol. 51, Iss. 2; pg. 45Ebscohost)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Experts</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> __throughout the world expect.......__</span>of conflicts.
1st: Israel-Syria conflict draws in Iran and escalates to World War III
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Chossudovsky, 12’ (Michel Chossudovsky, an award-winning author, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa, “War in Iran will Trigger WWIII”, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/a-war-on-iran-will-trigger-world-war-iii/5305791]], September 24, 2012)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Both the US and Israel have .........</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> countries may enter the war for or against Iran,” added the general.</span>
2nd: Syrian conflict alone escalates to great power war
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hamilton, 12’ (Writer for the Chicago Tribune, from Reuters! (Douglas, Russia-America tussle over Syria evokes Cold War, June 13, 2012,[[http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-06-13/news/sns-rt-us-syria-coldwar-israelbre85c10w-20120613_1_cold-war-syrian-president-bashar-civil-war]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> TEL AVIV (Reuters) - </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The world could slip ............</span> don't know who will strike the match<span style="font-family: Calibri;">."</span>
3rd: Syria threatened to use bioweapons if war with any country escalates

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Associated Press, 12’ </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">([[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-202_162-57497394/syrian-minister-warns-u-s-against-intervention/]])</span>

__<span style="color: #202022; font-size: 10pt;">The conflict ..........</span>__<span style="color: #202022; font-size: 10pt;"> __weapon stockpiles, and it has threatened to use them if the country comes under foreign attack.__</span>



Bio-weapons cause extinction

Matheny, 07’ <span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Jason G. Matheny, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction”, Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007)</span>

//<span style="background-color: aqua;">Of current extinction risks, the..........</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>

4th: Russian Relations Key To Combat Infectious Disease
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">DIPLOMAT, 7’</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (DIPLOMAT, A RUSSIAN MAGAZINE, “US RUSSIAN MUTUAL RELATIONS: FIVE MAJOR AREAS” JUNE 2007)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">fourth </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">area of cooperation revolves ..........our knowledge with partners around the world. </span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Air%20Pollution%20(Policy)|1AC Adv - Air Pollutio]]n=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Current trucking activity intensifies harmful toxins in the air</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NHDES 12</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services ’12 **<span style="font-family: Cambria;">[New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, 2012, “Motor Vehicles and Toxic Air Pollutants</span>****<span style="font-family: Cambria;">”</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://des.nh.gov/organization/commissioner/pip/factsheets/%20ard/documents/ard-5.pdf|**http://des.nh.gov/organization/commissioner/pip/factsheets/ ard/documents/ard-5.pdf**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">VP]</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toxic air ……..reactions in the atmosphere.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Trucks release harmful air pollutants</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">EPA 3/12</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Environmental Protection Agencyhttp://www.epa.gov/airquality/peg_caa/carstrucks.html, March 06, 2012)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Today, motor vehicles …….new vehicles and equipment.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Plan solves - water shipping decreases air pollution – past problems of unclean vessel emissions have been solved**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **MARAD ‘11**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> [U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 5]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The expanded use of ……….percent when fully implemented.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">The plan is environmentally friendly- reduces GHGs.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Martin, 2009</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Cornel Martin, President and CEO, Waterways Council, "Inland Waterways Investment Is Critical to Economic Recovery - and it's Green” 2009 waterwayscouncil.org/Media%2520Center/articles/Page_%2520from_Cornel_OPED_Marex.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The New Year brings much uncertainty about the economy, the future of certain industries and businesses, the housing market, and a new administration’s plans.</span><span class="titlechar" style="font-size: 10pt;">………locks and dams is critical.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Trucks cause air pollution and pandemics**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Gorgez, 2k**.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Clean air trust publisher,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.cleanairtrust.org/trucks.dirtytruth.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">How much pollution comes ………..each year because of it.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Pandemics cause Extinction</span>**

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Yu 9</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(5/22/09, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Writer, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,”</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A pandemic will ……….the Spanish flu pandemic.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Air pollution will lead to human extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Driesen 03</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[David, Associate Prof. Law – Syracuse U., Buffalo Environmental Law Journal, “"LEARING SUSTAINABILITY": SYMPOSIUM ARTICLES: SYMPOSIUM HELD AT THE UNIVERSITY AT BUFFALO LAW SCHOOL, OCTOBER 13, 2001: Sustainable Development and Air Quality: The Need to Replace Basic Technologies with Cleaner Alternatives”, Fall 02-Spring 03, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Air pollution can ………life a healthy and productive life.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Specifically air pollution causes cancer , damage to the immune system and the reproductive system</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">EPA 7</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Latest Findings on NationalAir Quality STATUS AND TRENDS THROUGH 2006,U.S. Environmental Protection Agency</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Office of Air Quality Planning and StandardsAir Quality Assessment DivisionResearch Triangle Park, North Carolina</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">EPA-454/R-07-007 January 2008, [[http://www.epa.gov/air/airtrends/2007/report/toxic.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">People exposed ………..environmental and ecological effects.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Cancer is dehumanizing**</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;"> Bieber 99</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> Husband of a Cancer Patient, Producer at WETA-TV (Jeff, January 24, 1999, “CANCER IN FILMS; Hitting Home,”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/1999/01/24/movies/l-cancer-in-films-hitting-home-969494.html)//DR]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">. H</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Last August my ………. You don't know what it's like until you touch it every day.</span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Air%20Pollution%20(Structural)|1AC Adv - ]]Structural Violence=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Air pollution kills 70,000 people in the U.S. every year—the impact is linear.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bernie</span> <span class="stylestylebold12pt0" style="font-size: 10pt;">Fischlowitz-Roberts 2</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Analyst at the Earth Policy Institute,</span> <span class="stylestylebold12pt0" style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">2002</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(“Air Pollution Fatalities Now Exceed Traffic Fatalities by 3 to 1,” Earth Policy Institute, September 17th,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.earth-policy.org/plan_b_updates/2002/update17]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The World Health ………of ozone and particulates.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Economically disadvantaged and low-income minority communities suffer from proximity to air pollution, resulting in hazardous health effects**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Springs 2007**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Mary Alice, “Inequity in Transport: The Problem with Auto Hegemony.” Chrestomathy: Annual Review of Undergraduate Researcher, Annual Review of Undergraduate Research, School of Humanities and Social Sciences, School of Languages, Cultures, and World Affairs Volume 6, 2007: 198-209;</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://chrestomathy.cofc.edu/archives/volume6.php]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">). SJ</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economically ……….**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">they do not contribute.</span>**</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **And Structural violence is a linear impact that kills millions every year – evaluate our impacts first**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **By Mumia 98,**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Abu-Jamal Column Written9/19/98</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It has often been ……….. violence passes away with them.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **You have a moral imparitive to consider the potential violent impacts of exclusion**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Vrinda Dalmiya 98**,</span> <span class="textmedium" style="font-size: 10pt;">teaches philosophy at the University of Hawai'i. Peace Review. Palo Alto: Dec 19</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">98</span><span class="textmedium" style="font-size: 10pt;">.Vol.10, Iss. 4; pg. 523, 6 pgs</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moral culpability ……….("body language").</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Trucks cause air pollution, cancer, and pandemics**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Gorgez, 2k.**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (Clean air trust publisher,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.cleanairtrust.org/trucks.dirtytruth.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">How much pollution ………….year because of it.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Cancer is dehumanizing**</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;"> Bieber 99 </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Husband of a Cancer Patient, Producer at WETA-TV (Jeff, January 24, 1999, “CANCER IN FILMS; Hitting Home,”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/1999/01/24/movies/l-cancer-in-films-hitting-home-969494.html)//DR]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">. H</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Last August ……..a good documentary. You don't know what it's like until you touch it every day.</span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Warming|1AC Adv - Warming]]=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Warming is real and human induced – drastic emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Somerville 11</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis, BJMIn early 2007………….reaching near zero well within this century.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Must act now – solves risky solutions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Carnesale 11 </span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Albert Carnesale, PhD in Nuclear Enginerring, UCLA Chancellor Emeritus and Professor of Engineering, Professor of Public Policy and Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, 3/2011, “America’s Climate Choices,”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://americasclimatechoices.org/ACC_Final_Report_Brief04.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">).</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the judgment……….. to be more stringent than actually needed.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Warming is an existential risk – species extinction proves** </span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Diebel 07 </span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Terry Diebel, professor of International Relations at National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today).</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Finally, there ………..Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">The plan is environmentally friendly- reduces GHGs.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Martin, 2009</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Cornel Martin, President and CEO, Waterways Council, "Inland Waterways Investment Is Critical to Economic Recovery - and it's Green” 2009 waterwayscouncil.org/Media%2520Center/articles/Page_%2520from_Cornel_OPED_Marex.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The New Year brings ………….dams is critical.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Shipping solves warming – aerosol emissions</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cattermole 10 </span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">(Tannith Cattermole Brighter, whiter clouds could fight global warming By 14:55 February 22, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.gizmag.com/brighter-whiter-clouds-fight-global-warming/14282/-BRW]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Pacific Northwest ………….suggest modification of Earth's atmospheric particles.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">A comprehensive federal expansion of Title XI loan guarantees creates conditions favorable for private investment – the plan reverses the only barrier to short sea transportation</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cook, 11 </span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">*Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">For more than a decade, …………owner and included as a transaction cost.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">And, the plan reduces risk and creates the financial backing necessary for short sea shipping</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Margaronis, 08 </span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[Green Ships Can Fight Global Warming, president of California-based Santa Maria Shipowning & Trading Inc, p. online document retrieved via a google download, full text email </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[mailto:alexanderdpappas@gmail.com|alexanderdpappas@gmail.com]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A loan guarantee ………s that hope to build ships.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Stabilizing the shipbuilding industry would reduce costs and solve institutional problems</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cropsey ’12</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">[18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropsey, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Knowledge of …………shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.</span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Turkey%20V.S%20Syria|1AC Adv - Turkey V.S Syria]]=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Turkey-Syrian war is likely and will happen</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wright 12 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Robert is a senior editor at The Atlantic and the author, most recently, of </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.evolutionofgod.net/|The Evolution of God]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, a New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize, “Why Turkey and Syria are Heading toward War”,</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2012/10/why-turkey-and-syria-are-heading-toward-war/263415/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">But wars are often fought by ………. inclined to keep its fire far from the border.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Syrian defectors confirm our argument**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Sherlock 12** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ruth has covered the Arab Spring for the Daily Telegraph from Egypt, Libya, and Syria. She was awarded Young Journalist of the Year at the 2012 British Press Awards., November 6, “Former Syrian PM reveals Assad in favour of all-out war”,</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.watoday.com.au/world/former-syrian-pm-reveals-assad-in-favour-of-allout-war-20121105-28u3a.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AMMAN: The most ……… like a good human being, but he is worse than his father.''</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Turkey-Syrian war goes nuclear</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gatto 12 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(July 12,2012, Timothy V., retired Army Sergeant and former Chairman of The Liberal Party of America, “Is Syria Worth World War III?”, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2012/07/16/s-syria-worth-world-war-iii]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)\</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The question of Syria’s problemss ……. to destroying the world?</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Syria threatened to use bioweapons if war escalates**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Associated Press 12**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-202_162-57497394/syrian-minister-warns-u-s-against-intervention/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="color: #202022; font-size: 10pt;">The conflict in ……. foreign attack.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Those cause extinction**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Matheny 07**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jason G. Matheny, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction”, Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Of current extinction …….. pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Syrian conflict will escalate globally even if Turkey doesn’t go to war**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Hamilton 6-13** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Writer for the Chicago Tribune, from Reuters! (Douglas, Russia-America tussle over Syria evokes Cold War, June 13, 2012,</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-06-13/news/sns-rt-us-syria-coldwar-israelbre85c10w-20120613_1_cold-war-syrian-president-bashar-civil-war]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">TEL AVIV (Reuters) - The world ………..everything is ready for a big, big fire. You don't know who will strike the match."</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Syrian instability spills over to Lebanon**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **USAT 12** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(USA Today, October 22, “Syria's civil war spills over into Lebanon”,</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2012/10/22/lebanon-erupts-in-fighting/1649839/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We do not endorse gendered language in this evidence</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 8:02PM EDT October 22. 2012 - ………. the protest devolved into violence.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**None of your impact defense applies – it’ll go nuclear**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Totten 09** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Michael J. is a foreign correspondent and foreign policy analyst who has reported from the Middle East, the Balkans, and the Caucasus, 11-20-09, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.commentarymagazine.com/2009/11/20/web-exclusive-a-third-lebanon-war-could-be-much-worse-than-the-second/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The last ……… public about nuclear war.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tensions are high and it undermines the Middle East even if it doesn’t escalate</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Gagnon 12 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Michelle, “Will powerful Turkey be dragged into Syria's war?The view from Turkey's border with its embattled neighbour”, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2012/11/04/f-vp-gagnon-turkey.html#socialcomments|http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2012/11/04/f-vp-gagnon-turkey.html#socialcomments]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Over the course of …….. at the Syrians more than a few times of late.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Both cause extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Steinbach 02 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(John, March 3, pg. )</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Meanwhile, the existence ……… trigger a world conflagration.”</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**The Plan solves**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Vego 08** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Naval forces can be ………. forces quickly and decisively.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ships are key</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Trombly 12 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Daniel Trombly, 8/22/12 analyst and writer on international affairs and strategy. Contributor to “Abu Muqawama” and “Slouching Toward Columbia” “The cost of a Syria Intervention” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://news.usni.org/news-analysis/news/cost-syrian-intervention]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Discerning the capability of Syria’s ………..—if it is to be painless—will not come cheaply.</span>


===1AC Adv - Trade=== 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Trade is low now- protectionism is increasing globally</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Irwin 7/3/12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Irwin, Douglas A., professor of economics at Dartmouth, July 3, 2012“The Return of the Protectionist Illusion”, Wall Street Journal Europe, ProQuest)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">In order to prop up the peso, ………..oopholes in WTO rules. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2. Shipping is key to Trade</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DSM 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dutch-based multinational <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Life_sciences|life sciences]]</span> and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Materials_science|materials sciences]]</span> company, 5/6/2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.google.com/webhp?rlz=1C1CHFA_enUS494US494&sourceid=chrome-instant&ie=UTF-8#q=shipbuilding+is+key+to+trade&hl=en&safe=off&tbo=d&rlz=1C1CHFA_enUS494US494&ei=DxmzUO_lBIHLyAHC74HoBw&start=50&sa=N&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.r_qf.&fp=2db66082684263d4&bpcl|https://www.google.com/webhp?rlz=1C1CHFA_enUS494US494&sourceid=chrome-instant&ie=UTF-8#q=shipbuilding+is+key+to+trade&hl=en&safe=off&tbo=d&rlz=1C1CHFA_enUS494US494&ei=DxmzUO_lBIHLyAHC74HoBw&start=50&sa=N&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.r_qf.&fp=2db66082684263d4&bpcl=38897761&biw=1280&bih=564]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The shipping industry ………</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> pollution of our environment.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. Status quo shipyard closings are decimating the industry </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Munoz, 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(January 11, The Obama Infrastructure Plan, and Another Shipyard Closes, OP-ED by Tony Munoz, Editor-in-Chief of the Maritime ExecutiveMagazine and the MarEx Newsletter, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">As President Obama ……….. the poor. Imagine….</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4. Trade makes the probability of your impacts zero—only we can access war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hillebrand, 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Professor of Diplomacy at the University of Kentucky and Senior Economist for the Central Intelligence Agency (Evan E., 2010, “Deglobalization Scenarios: Who Wins? Who Loses?”, Global Economy Journal, Vol. 10, Issue 2, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">A long line of writers</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> ……….. __probability for interstate war rises.__</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5. Trade solves global wars </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Griswold 98</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Associate Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the CATO Institute, ‘98 (Daniel, December 31, “Peace On Earth, Free Trade For Men,” CATO Institute Daily, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/dailys/12-31-98.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Advocates of free trade ………… cross borders, armies will." </span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6. Free trade fosters social stability and democracy – this evidence is reverse causal</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Griswold, 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12]]</span> BJM</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The growth of the ………. in China may provide a spark. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">7. Democracy is key to prevent extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Diamond, 95</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Larry, Senior Research Fellow at the Hoover Institute, 1995, Promoting Democracy in the 1990s, Online</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nuclear, chemical, ……… threaten one another. </span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Heg|1AC Adv - Heg]]emony=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">First, Failure to boost shipping industry will embolden potential adversaries- that risks great power war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brookes 08</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior Fellow in National Security Affairs at the Heritage Foundation, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs (Peter, May 2nd, “Flattop Follies: Navy Cuts Back on Carriers”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/05/flattop_follies_navy_cuts_back.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CHECK this</span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 10pt;">: After cutting ………</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> quantity has a quality all its own. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US naval power guarantees hegemony - prevents attacks on the US mainland and deters potential rivals</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Friedman 07</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(George, PhD, Chief Executive Officer and founder of STRATFOR, “The Limitations and Necessity of Naval Power……….Navy plays in U.S. national security.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And, Naval superiority is the foundation of U.S. geopolitical dominance- It provides the “bandwidth” needed to confront all other threats</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stratfor 08</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">World's leading private intelligence firm, clients range from Fortune 500 companies to international government agencies (August 5th, “U.S. Naval Dominance and the Importance of the Oceans”, [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/u_s_naval_dominance_and_importance_oceans]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The geographic position of ……… of the Atlantic and Pacific. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hegemony is sustainable – but we have to maintain it</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kagan 12</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Robert Kagan, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, B.A., Yale University, M.P.P., John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Ph.D., American University, January 17, 2012, “Not Fade Away: Against the Myth of American Decline”, Brookings Institute, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/01/17-us-power-kagan]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The challenges today are ……….. world they live in.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Loss of hegemony causes global instability</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kagan 12, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior Fellow at Brookings (Robert, 3/14/12 “America has made the world freer, safer and wealthier” CNN,http://us.cnn.com/2012/03/14/opinion/kagan-world-america-made/index.html?hpt=hp_c1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We takea lotfor grantedabout ……… before the American order came into being.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Primacy has resulted in the lowest level of war in history – best statistics prove</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Owen 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">x[John Owen, Associate professor in the University of Virginia's Department of Politics, recipient of fellowships from the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard, and the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford, and the Center of International Studies at Princeton, PhD in international relations from Harvard, February 11, 2011, “Don’t Discount Hegemony, [[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Andrew Mack and …………….</span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 10pt;"> United States as the global hegemon</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Deterrence|1AC Adv - Deterrence]]=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">First, naval ships are key to power projection – ground forces are not sufficient</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thompson 09</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Loren, Chief Operating Officer at the Lexington Institute, PhD in government from Georgetown, March 10th, “Navy Will Offer Up Carrier & Air Wing in Quadrennial Review”, http://lexingtoninstitute.org/1383.shtml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Of course, today's ……. a bigger ground force doesn't make much sense.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Second, naval ships ensure rapid response to any region in the world – they’re successful even when the US has no allied support</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eaglen 08 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial,” July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">For any U.S. president, …….. message of U.S. interest.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Third, even if conflict occurs, naval ships solve the terminal impact – they’re key to all other operations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Swan and Horres 08 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Swan, Brigadier General, Director, Concept Development and Experimentation Directorate, Army </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capabilities Integration Center, Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC), National Security Program Fellow at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, AND Horres, CAPT completed 26 years of active service, received his master's degrees at Navy War College, Robin P; Edward J, “Opportunity at Hand New Roles for Carriers”, United States Naval Institute: Proceedings, Vol. 134 No. 6, June)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The services must ……….. the commander-in-chief asks "Where are the carriers?" </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Naval-based deterrence maintains world peace- they prevent conflicts from escalating</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Admiral Johnson and General Krulak 97</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Jay is the Chief of Naval Operations and Charles is the Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps, “Forward Presence is Essential to American Interests”, [[http://www.milnet.com/pentagon/navy/fwdpresn.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Also this morning, United ……… for these uncertain and sometimes fiery times.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only deterrence is an empirically verifiable solution to war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moore 04</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, page 27-31.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As so broadly conceived,</span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 10pt;">………deterrence</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, that</span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 10pt;">become crucial.</span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Commerce|1AC Adv - Commerce]]=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">First, Maritime stability is the backbone of the global economy- America must build more carriers to protect vital shipping lanes </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eaglen, 09</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, Sayers, Research Assistant for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, (Mackenzie and Eric, March 24th, “A 21st Century Maritime Posture for an Uncertain Future”, [[http://www.heritage.org/press/commentary/ed032409b.cfm?RenderforPrint=1]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Beyond the vagaries ……….reduction in the CVN fleet. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Naval power projection key to sustaining the economy through open sea-lanes that facilitate free trade</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">England 12 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Former Secretary of Navy (Gordon- President of E6 Partners LLC, January, “Naval Forces Underpin Economic Success” Proceedings Magazine, Vol 138 No 1, http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2012-01/special-naval-forces-underpin-economic-success)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In response, I would comment …….. It is especially relevant today.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Free trades disincentivizes countries to go to war against each other and solves terrorism</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Griswold 11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization (Daniel, “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our more globalized world ……… destroyed by civil conflict and war.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Terrorism causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Morgan, 9</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In a remarkable website ………..misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Broad statistical models proves collapse leads to conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Royal 1</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Less intuitive is how ……… be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

===[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) Gershom Chan#Affirmative-Title%20XI-1AC%20Adv%20-%20Nuclear%20Primacy|1AC Adv - Nuclear Primacy]]=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Expansion</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of title XI funding ensures increased naval capacity </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Goure, 1</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Lexington Institute, Obama Could Create Jobs And Support Defense, Daniel, PhD, [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A less well recognized </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 10pt;">………put</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 10pt;">money behind the MHI.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Increased naval power is critical to maintain nuclear primacy and credibility</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Vego, 8 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf, Deech)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Blue water navies play …….. France, and the People’s Republic of China.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Loss of primacy leads to nuclear war – perception heightens the link</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Caves 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">John P. Caves Jr., Senior Research Fellow In The Center For The Study Of Weapons Of Mass Destruction At The National Defense University, January 2010, “Avoiding A Crisis Of Confidence In The U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Strategic Forum, No. 252</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Perceptions of a ………. terrorists alone could inflict.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Primacy is key to deter Chinese nuclear threats – it’s reverse casual – the U.S. will first strike Beijing and China would invade Taiwan. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lieber and Press 6 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Keir A. Lieber and Daryl G. Press Lieber -- Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Press -- Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program at the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding. “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy march/April 2006 – Foreign Affairs Published by the Council on Foreign Relations – Copy of PDF found on: [[http://www.nytimes.com/cfr/international/20060301faessay_v85n2_lieber_press.html?pagewanted=print]] SMerchant] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This debate may now seem ……… theorists call "crisis instability." </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. – China war over Taiwan guarantees nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Glaser 11 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Charles Glaser – PHD from Harvard in International Relations Theory and International Security Policy -- Professor of Political Science and International Affairs Director, Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at George Washington University “Will China’s Rise lead to War?” March/April 2011http://web.clas.ufl.edu/users/zselden/coursereading2011/Glaser.pdf SMerchant]//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The prospects for avoiding ……… poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only increased naval capacity can deter growing Chinese capabilities – action now is vital </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">O’Rourke 12</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ronald, specialist in Naval Affairs, “China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities – Background and Issues for Congress”, </span>//Congressional Research Service//, June 14th, 2012, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33153.pdf)//AMV]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One potential oversight ……… the deferral of some planned ship procurements. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only incremental upgrades occur now – the plan is key to develop new systems </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lieber and Press 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Keir A. Lieber and Daryl G. Press Lieber -- Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Press -- Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program at the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding. “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy march/April 2006 – Foreign Affairs Published by the Council on Foreign Relations – Copy of PDF found on: [[http://www.nytimes.com/cfr/international/20060301faessay_v85n2_lieber_press.html?pagewanted=print]] SMerchant] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The improvements to the U.S……… strike against Russia or China. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Primacy is key to dissuade other countries from escalating – capabilities can solve all nuclear impacts </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lieber & Press 9 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Keir A. Lieber, Assistant Professor Of Political Science At The University Of Notre Dame, And Daryl G. Press, Associate Professor Of Political Science At The University Of Pennsylvania, November-December 2009, “The Nukes We Need: Preserving The American Deterrent,” Foreign Affairs, p. 50-51 SMerchant</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Counterforce ………. rest largely on a bluff.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Seabasing solves rapid marine response</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hanlon 4</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">General Edward Hanlon, US Marine Corps. Feb 26, 2004. FDCH Testimony.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The inherent mobility, …………C2 architecture. Organizational Concepts</span>
==Structural Violence== 
===1AC - Plan=== 
Thus the Plan: The United States Supreme Court should accept a writ of certiorari on a relevant test case in order to overturn the precedent set by Milliken v. Bradley 418 U.S. 717 (1974) an overturning would mandate that students be bussed to the school of their choice.

===1AC - Solvency=== 
Overruling Milliken is the pre-requisite to protection under the fourteenth amendment's equal protection clause, there is an ethical obligation to reject this legally mandated racism which blurs the line between de facto and de jure. An overturning would mandate that students be transported to the school of their choice
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rahdert 04</span> (Mark C. Rahdert, Professor of Law, Temple UHniversity Beasley School of Law, Spring 2004, Temple Political & Civil Rights Review, 13 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 785, p. 800-801)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Perhaps the most …..</span>the educational system.


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Overturning Milliken is a pre-requisite to any solvency that won't be rolled back by current institutional racism</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rahdert 04</span> (Mark C. Rahdert, Professor of Law, Temple UHniversity Beasley School of Law, Spring 2004, Temple Political & Civil Rights Review, 13 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 785, p. 800-801)
Looking back, we …….//any judicial decree.//

the plan already has stare decisis.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Justice Thurgood Marshall in</span> the dissenting opinion of Milliken in <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">74</span>
//I cannot subscribe …………//degree of ac-tual desegregation.

===**1AC - Framing**=== 
Discourse shapes how we view our world and how we construct urban space. This is why we prefer a best policy option framework so we can ethically orient ourselves towards future activism and policymaking. If the negative presents a framework based on our discourse in round then we will defend our representations as the best education in round.
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Oh 5</span>** (Reginald C. Oh, assistant professor of law at the Appalachian School of Law, 2005, Cleveland State Law Review, 52 Clev. St. L. Rev. 243, p. 246-248)
If dominant narratives ……….//they get there?//

**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Pragmatic action with a heterodoxical approach will always solve best, your methodologies, epistemologies, and ontologies are welcome here they will augment our morality claims.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Ford 94</span>** (Richard Thompson Ford, Assistant Professor of Law, Stanford Law School, June 1994, Harvard Law Review, 107 Harv. L. Rev. 1843, p. 1918-1920)-kpb
This article has …………//boundaries of race.//

Nuclear war does not result in extinction-no fallout, ozone depletion, or nuclear winter
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Martin ’84 (Brian, Associate Professor in Science, Technology, and Society at the University of Wollongong, “Extinction Politics,” May, Scientists Against Nuclear Arms Newsletter, Number 16, p. 5-6, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html)</span>
Yet //in spite …………// in nuclear extinction

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Major war won’t escalate social evolution</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fettweis 6</span> – National Security Decision Making Department, US Naval War College, (Chris, “A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or, What If Mueller Is Right?” International Studies Review (2006) 8, 677–697)
However, one need …….. //it could not.//
Racial segregation is the norm in the urban landscapes of the United States. These communities are predominately non-white and working class.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ford</span>, Assistant Professor of Law at Stanford Law School, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">94</span> (June 1994, Richard Thompson, 107 Harvard Law Review 1843, “The Boundaries of Race: Political Geography in Legal Analysis,” LexisNexis)-kpb
It is …….<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is not mysterious.</span>

Thats because urban school systems were designed to fail. This institution acts as an auction block for the military and a pipeline to the prison industrial complex.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Duncan-Andrade and Morrell 2008</span> (Jeffrey and Ernest, The art of critical pedagogy Possibilities for moving from theory to practice in urban schools. Peter Lang Publishers.p114-115, <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Ernest Morrell is an associate professor in the Urban Schooling division of the Graduate School of Education and Information Studies (GSE&IS) and Associate Director for Youth Research at the Institute for Democracy, Education, and Access (IDEA) at the University of California at Los Angeles. For more than a decade he has worked with adolescents, drawing on their involvement with popular culture to promote academic literacy development. Morrell is also interested in the applications of critical pedagogy in urban education and working with teens as critical researchers. Morrell is the author of three books, Linking Literacy and Popular Culture: Finding Connections for Lifelong Learning (Christopher-Gordon) and Becoming Critical Researchers: Literacy and Empowerment for Urban Youth (Peter Lang), and Critical Literacy and Urban Youth: Pedagogies of Access, Dissent, and Liberation (Routledge) due out in Fall 2007. In addition to these books, Morrell has published numerous peer-reviewed journal articles, book chapters, encyclopedia entries, and national and international conference presentations Morrell’s research has been sponsored and awarded on several occasions including receiving the outstanding dissertation award from UC Berkeley’s Graduate School of Education and being awarded a postdoctoral research grant from the American Educational Research Association (AERA). Morrell has been invited to give numerous keynote addresses on his work on popular culture and literacy achievement for urban adolescents to postsecondary institutions such as the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, DePaul University, Barnard University, Simmons University, Columbia University, and New York University; research organizations such as the National Council of Teachers of English Assembly for Research, the National Reading Conference, the Black Education Alliance of Massachusetts, the Michigan Reading Association, and the Michigan Council of teachers of English, private foundations such as the HOPE Foundation, the Rosalinde and Arthur Gilbert Foundation; and local school districts and schools throughout the nation, including work with Boston Public School teachers through the Boston Plan for Excellence in Education. Morrell is currently involved in a research project examining the applications of critical pedagogy in several classrooms across Los Angeles. He is also involved in a summer seminar where urban teens conduct research project in local neighborhoods and schools.Morrell previously taught English for six years at Oakland High school in Northern California where he was nominated five times for "Who's Who Among America's High School Teachers" and was recognized by the Oakland Unified School District, Oakland Community Organizations, US Congresswoman Barbara Lee, and the California State Senate for his service to the Oakland Public Schools. Morrell received his doctorate in Language, Literacy, and Culture from the University of California at Berkeley.)kpb</span>
The fact that …….. //force and society.//

Urban schools funnel youth in to the prison industrial complex. There are better schools within a bus ride's distance.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fuentes, 04’</span> (<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Annette Fuentes, Adjunct Professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, April 8, 2004, online: </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.blackcommentator.com/85/85_guest_schoolhouse.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)-kpb</span>
Stratford High …….//The system works.//
===1AC Adv - Prison Pipeline=== 
Urban schools are a structural violence, that locks non-white students in to cycles of poverty and then blames them for it
<span style="font-family: Optima-Regular;">Jessica Ruglis 2009 </span><span style="font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"</span><span style="font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">DEATH OF A DROPOUT: (RE)THEORIZING SCHOOL DROPOUT AND SCHOOLING AS A SOCIAL DETERMINANT OF HEALTH" Dissertation to the Graduate Faculty in Urban Education. The City University of New York</span><span style="font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Ruglis </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">received her PhD in Urban Education from the Graduate Center of The City University of New York in May 2009. A former teacher, she also holds an MPH in Urban Public Health/Community Health Education from Hunter College, a Masters of Arts in Teaching in Secondary Science Education from Union College, and BS in Human Biology from University at Albany. Jessica's dissertation is a mixed method, youth participatory action research project that investigates the connections between schooling, education and health; and which culminates in positing schooling as a social determinant of health. Jessica's work also (re)theorizes school dropout and introduces a new critical theory of school non-completion. Her research experience includes community based participatory research projects that study corporate disease promotion practices; the intersections between the education, health, and criminal justice systems in New York City; and the role of a school based health center in academic achievement and community health. With an interest in policy, Jessica has served as a legal consultant for State Supreme court cases on issues of educational inequity and consequences of diploma denial due to implementation of high stakes exit exams, as well as for a New York City court case dealing with child welfare. Jessica is a Kellogg Health Scholar at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, MD.)-kpb</span>
<span style="font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif;">Regardless of …….personal responsibility.</span>


The destruction of urban education is an active process that seeks to render the victims of structural violence invisible
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Giroux, 06</span> (Henry A. Giroux. Prof. English & Cultural Studies, McMaster U., Canada; Chapter 1: Katrina and the Biopolitics of Disposability, Stormy Weather]KS p21-2
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Just as crime ………Hurricane Katrina.58]p.22</span>

This destruction of public space, means the end of politics and the end of policy debate. The only school reform that can solve is equal access.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Giroux,</span> Henry 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span>. //Against the Terror of Neoliberalism:politics beyond the age of greed.// Boulder: Paradigm Publishers.(pg 21-22)-kpb
//A second ………rest of society.//

This unending war – invisible even to those it targets – is worse than nuclear war. Their impact scenarios are attempts by the system to keep the real war hidden and serve to intensify structural violence.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Abu-Jamal, 98’ </span>(Mumia Abu-Jamal, Political Prisoner, Prison Writer, Activist, 9-19-98, “A Quiet and Deadly Violence”, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]])
It has often been ……. on the Poor.
===1AC Adv - Racism=== 
Institutional racism is the root cause of violence, especially that which targets minority identities.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">BARDNT 1991</span>(Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism:The Continuing Challenge to White America; p.31-33)
__Racism can ……..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to our benefit.</span>

Racism is the root cause of state violence
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mendieta 02</span>(Eduardo Mendieta, Professor of Philosophy at SUNY-Stony Brook, April 25, 2002, online: [[http://www.stonybrook.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf]], accessed August 29, 2006)
I have thus ……. biological in nature.


Rejecting every instance of racism is key
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">BARDNT, 91</span>(Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization 1991<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism:The Continuing Challenge<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>to White America; p.155-156)

To study racism... it to continue.

=Negative= 
==1NC - Topicality== 
T - It's
T - Space
T - In
T - Underlying Structures
T - Vehicles
T - Investment = Direct
T - Grants do not = Investment
T - Movement of people or goods
T- Maintenance
T- Increase = net increase
T- Infrastructure
T- 9 Topic Areas
T - Xtra
T - FX
T - Military
T - Framework
T - Territories
==1NC - Counterplans== 
- 50 States
- Commissions
- XO Cp
- "The" Pic
- Destroy All Transit
- NEPA
- QTR
- Alaska
- Courts Cp
- USFG Cp
- Operations Pic
==1NC - Kritiks== 
- Cap
- Ableism
- Terror Talk
- Security
- Transit
- Baudrillard
- Disaster Rhetoric
- Foucault
- Race
- Orentialism
- Heidegger
==1NC - Disadvantages== 
- Elections
- Weponization
- DPRK Food
- Bonds
- Fiscal Cliff
- NDAA
- It's
- China Steel T/O
- Oil
- Urban Sprawl
- Coercion
- Immigration
- Civil Disobedience
==1NC - Case Negs== 
- Space Elevator
- Race Aff
- Title XI
- Ports Security
- Marine Highways
- Port Dredging
- Federal Reserve (GBN's Aff's)
- HSR
- NIB
- CCS
- Military Ocean Terminals
- Info Processing Aff (GBS's Aff)
- Zizek Mass Transit
- Military Bases
- Ice Breakers
- Structural Violence
==Neg Strategies== 
===Valley Round 1:=== 
- 1NC:
# T - It's
# Commissions Cp
# Cap K
# Obama Good
# Case

- 2NC: K, CP, DA

- 1NR: T, Case

- 2NR: DA, Case

===Valley Round 3:=== 
- 1NC:
# T - It's
# T - In
# T - Xtra
# T - Space
# 50 States
# Obama Good
# Cap K
# Weapionization Da
# Space Elevator Neg

- 2NC: K, Case

- 1NR: T

- 2NR: T

===Valley Round 6:=== 
- 1NC:
# T - It's
# T - Underlying Structures
# T - Vehicles
# Commissions Cp
# Obama Good
# Ableism K
# Race Stuff

- 2NC: T, K

- 1NR: CP, DA

- 2NR: CP, DA

===New Trier Round 1:=== 
(Debated with Kris Trivedi)

- 1NC:
# Commissions Cp
# T - It's (I might be wrong)
# Obama Good
# Security K
# Ports Dredging Neg

- I don't remember the Block

- 2NR: CP, DA

===New Trier Round 3:=== 
(Debated with Kris Trivedi)
- 1NC:
# T - It's
# Cp
# Obama Good
# Cap K
# Case
# DPRK Food Da

- 2NC: DPRK Food Da, Cp, Case

- 1NR: Obama Good, Case

- 2NR: DPRK Food DA, Case

===New Trier Round 5:=== 
(Debated with Kris Trivedi)
- 1NC:
# T - Investment = Direct
# T - Grants do not = Investment
# Security K
# 50 States Cp
# Obama Good
# Case

- 2NC: K, Cp

- 1NR: T, DA

- 2NR: Cp, DA

===New Trier Doubles:=== 
(Debated with Kris Trivedi)
- 1NC:
# T - Investment = Direct
# T - Grants do not = Investment
# Cap K
# Commissions Cp
# Obama Good
# Case

- 2NC: K, Cp

- 1NR: Obama Good, Case

- 2NR: K, Case


===Caucus Round 2:=== 
- 1NC:
# T Maintenance
# Cap K
# States Cp
# Obama Good
# Case

- 2NC: T, DA, K

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: T
===Caucus Round 4:=== 
- 1NC:
# States Cp
# T Net Increase
# Obama Good
# Cap K
# Case

- 2NC: K, DA

- 1NR: CP

- 2NR: K
===Caucus Round 5:=== 
- 1NC:
# T Direct Investment
# T Physical
# Cap K
# Commissions Cp
# Obama Good
# Case

- 2NC: T, K

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: Case, K

===Umich Round 2:=== 
- 1NC:
# T In the United States
# "The" Pic
# Commissions Cp
# Elections DA
# Weponization DA
# Case

- 2NC: Case

- 1NR: "The" Pic

- 2NR: Case

===Umich Round 4:=== 
- 1NC:
# T Infrastructure
# Destroy All Transit Cp
# Cap K
# Elections
# Case

- 2NC: K, Case

- 1NR: Cp

- 2NR: K, Case
===Umich Round 6:=== 
- 1NC:
# Elections
# Commissions Cp
# States Cp
# T Physical
# T Direct
# Case

- 2NC: T, Da, Case

- 1NR: Cp, Case

- 2NR: Cp, Da

===Barington Round 1:=== 
- 1NC:
# NEPA CP
# Cap K
# Bonds DA
# T Direct
# T Physical
# Case

- 2NC: K, Bonds

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: Case, DA
===Barington Round 3:=== 
- 1NC:
# NEPA CP
# Cap K
# Case
# T maintenance
# Bonds DA

- 2NC: K, T

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: K

===Ohio Valley Round 2:=== 
- 1NC:
# Commissions Cp
# T - Military
# Fiscal Cliff
# Security K
# Case

- 2NC: K, Case

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: K, Case

===Ohio Valley Round 3:=== 
- 1NC:
# Cap K
# Commissions
# Fiscal
# States
# T - It's

- 2NC: K, Commissions, Fiscal Cliff

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: Case, K
===Ohio Valley Round 6:=== 
- 1NC:
# Cap K
# Fiscal Cliff
# Commissions
# T - Maintenance

- 2NC: Cap

- 1NR: Cap

- 2NR: Cap

===Dowling Round 2:=== 
- 1NC:
# T - Maintenance
# Commissions
# Fiscal Cliff
# Cap K
# Baudrillard
# Case

- 2NC: Cap, Orentialism

- 1NR: Case, Baudrillard

- 2NR: Cap, Case

===Dowling Round 3:=== 
- 1NC:
# Commissions
# NDAA DA
# T - In
# Security K
# Case
# Baudrillard

- 2NC: Security, Baudrillard

- 1NR: NDAA, Case

- 2NR: Security, Condo Good

===Dowling Round 6:=== 
- 1NC:
# T - Maintenance
# Commissions
# NDAA
# Cap K
# Orentialism Turn
# Baudrillard
# Case

- 2NC: Cap K, Orentialism, Baudrillard

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: Cap, Case

===Blake Round 2:=== 
- 1NC:
# NDAA
# States
# Cap
# Oil
# Steel
# Urban Sprawl
# Zizek Neg
# Case

- 2NC: Cap K, States

- 1NR: NDAA Sprawl, Zizek Neg

- 2NR: States, NDAA, Case
===Blake Round 3:=== 
- 1NC:
# NDAA
# Commissions
# T - Military
# Security K
# Orientalism
# Baudrillard
# Case

- 2NC: Security, Baudrillard

- 1NR: Case, Orientalism

- 2NC: Security
===Blake Round 6:=== 
- 1NC:
# NDAA
# Alaska CP
# T - In
# Baudrillard
# Security K
# Case

- 2NC: Security, Baudrillard

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: Case
===Blake Round 7:=== 
- 1NC:
# NDAA
# Commissions
# T - Mil
# Cap K
# Baudrillard
# Case

- 2NC: Cap K, T, Baudrillard, Case

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: Cap, Case

===Evanston Round 1:=== 
- 1NC:
# Immigration
# Courts CP
# Coercion
# T - Capital
# Foucault
# Orientalism
# Baudrillard
# Case

- 2NC: Foucault, Coercion, Immigration

- 1NR: Orientalism, Baudrillard, Courts

- 2NR: Foucault
===Evanston Round 4:=== 
- 1NC:
# Baudrillard
# Heidegger
# USFG Cp
# T - Framework
# Civil Disobedience DA

- 2NC: Heidegger, Framework, DA

- 1NR: USFG Cp

- 2NR: USFG Cp, Framework, DA

===Evanston Round 5:=== 
- 1NC:
# Foucault
# T - Military
# Courts Cp
# Immigration
# Case

- 2NC: K, Cp, T

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: Case

===Evanston Quarters:=== 
- 1NC:
# Security
# Operations Pic
# Immigration
# T - Territories
# Case

- 2NC: K, CP, T

- 1NR: Case

- 2NR: K, Case