If you have any questions email me at labarredavis@gmail.com
[[toc]]
=**September-October**= 

==Affirmative== 
===Buster Douglas AC=== 
Aff must defend Status Quo

Pics Bad because they skew predictability

Comparative worlds because its real world

v-morality

s-max protections of rights

Gov has to consider consequeces Harries

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">editor of the National Interest [Owen, The National Interest, “Power and Civilization,” Spring, p. 11]</span>

While an individual…and over-riding

2. gov’s intent

Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17. <span style="font-size: 9pt;">University of Chicago Law Professor explains</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Unlike individuals governments…fully discourage it </span>

Extinction first

a. empirical constraint

b. reasonable reject

c. moral uncertainty justifies extinction first parfit

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Derek Parfit, MA, FBA, is an Emeritus Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford University and a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at NYU, Harvard and Rutgers University, “Reasons and Persons” Oxford University Press (1986) ISBN-13: 9780198249085] 154. How Both Human History, and the History of Ethics, May Be Just Beginning</span>


c1- terrorism

terrorism exists because of sympathy Lunday

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">KEVIN E. LUNDAY & HARVEY RISHIKOF . “DUE PROCESS IS A STRATEGIC CHOICE: LEGITIMACY AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ARTICLE III NATIONAL SECURITY COURT” (Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard. Harvey Rishikof is a professor of law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy, National War College.) 88 CALIFORNIA WESTERN INTERNATIONAL LAW JOURNAL [Vol. 39] 2008.</span>

Terrorist movements rely…that employs terrorism

Neg increases recruitment alexander

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Matthew </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alexander</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, Former Member of the US Airforce, Leader of the Interrogation Team that Led to the Capture of </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, leader of al-Qaeda in Iraq, November 30th 2008, “I’m Still Tortured by What I Saw in Iraq.” Washington Post http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/11/28/AR2008112802242.html</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the No. 1 reason </span>…<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on Sept. 11, 2001</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">domestic courts have empirically solved cases of terrorism both non citizens and citizens, L.P.,</span>**

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">Ip, John (2012). “Military Commissions and Discrimination Against Non-Citizens.” THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PREJUDICE: INTERDISCIPLINARY PERSPECTIVES ON CONTEMPORARY ISSUES, Nova , 2012. http://ssrn.com/abstract=2031694</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Since 9/11, the… handful of trials</span>__**
**Nuclear Terrorism will cause extinction**
**Sid-Ahmed, 4** (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)
**__A nuclear attack__**
**__all be losers__**
Drones attacks increase terrorist recruiting capabilities bolstering Lunday’s argument Gerges
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Predator strikes have </span>**</span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">we’re killing or capturing.</span>**</span>
Contention 2 is arbitrariness
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">no nation will allow them to become citizens if they are not already citizens by birthright. Shachar.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THE BIRTHRIGHT LOTTERY: Citizenship and Global Inequality by AYELET SHACHAR HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS Cambridge, Massachusetts. London, England. 2009</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Citizenshipin… a luck of descent</span>__**
**This arbitrariness is exacerbated by geographical borders. Extending due process rights rejects the arbitrariness of borders by treating citizens and non-citizens alike. Rejecting borders is key to solving violence, as they are the root-cause.**

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Shapiro 97</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael J. Shapiro, professor of political science at the University of Hawaii, </span>__Violent Cartographies.__ P21-22) DF
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">in the case…</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">geography</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **territorial moral** </span>
Underview:
First, I wouldn’t be breaking the social contract
**Second, Presumption goes aff because A. we always default to treating people as moral equals absent a reason not to**
**B. to offset neg time skew. C. absent a clear reason to negate, creates an oblig**
**lation to affirm**
**Third, Aff gets RVI**
**Fourth, The U.S. hasn’t submitted to the ICC, creating a HUGE solvency deficit in their evidence**

===Earl Campbell=== 

The aff advocates that the United States extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens.

Normative statements are constrained by context – our context is facts of the natural world. Naturalism, therefore is the only standard acceptable to generate ethics. Smith.

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Smith, Michael. Ethics and the A Priori: Selected Essays on Moral PsychologyAnd Meta-Ethics. Cambridge University Press. Michael Smith is Professor of Philosophy at Princeton University. 2004</span>

Torturing Babies is wrong…of empirical science

Naturalism commits us to consequentialism.
, The mental states of pleasure and pain are objective goods that should be respectively maximized and minimized Thomas Nagel writes

Thomas Nagel, //The View From Nowhere//, HUP, 1986: 156-168.

Sensory pleasure is good…in such cases

And deontology halts action

The moral obligations…sovereignty it enjoys

Lastly, Any Neg Counterplan or advocacy must be accompanied by independent solvency evidence.

Contention One is Afghan stability
A. Targeted killing destroys Afghan legal credibility <span class="cite">Hentoff</span>

(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nat, member of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “Obama’s Extra-Judicial Killers Subvert American Values”, Milford Daily News and www.cato.org, accessed June 25 2010)</span>

Obama has permitted…changed our Constitution

That undermines stability <span class="cite">Durch </span>
(William J., Co Director project on the future of the PKO @ Stimson Cent. “Afghanistan: Keeping the Peace Without Hardly Trying” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.stimson.org/fopo/pdf/Afghan_KeepingPeaceWithoutTryingrev112602.pdf]]</span>
Al Qaeda and the Taliban…guaranteed without it
Afghan instability causes Central Asian conflict
<span class="cite">Szayna and Oliker 2003</span>

(Thomas S., and Olga, both RAND analysts. “Faultlines of Conflict In Central Asia and the South Caucasus” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/2005/RAND_MR1598.sum.pdf|www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/2005/RAND_MR1598.sum.pdf]]</span>)
The situation in…South Caucasus conflicts.
The impact is nuclear war
<span class="cite">Blank 2k</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Stephen J., Exepert on Post-Soviet States @ Strat Stud Inst. “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region,” World Affairs. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.findarticles.com/cf_dls/m2393/2_163/67046851/p1/article.jhtml?term|www.findarticles.com/cf_dls/m2393/2_163/67046851/p1/article.jhtml?term]]</span>
Thus conditions for…than almost everywhere
Terrorists can’t get nucs Westmore
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;">Can terrorists really acquire nuclear weapons?</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;"> by Peter Westmore (Peter Westmore is national president of the National Civic Council. ) May 1, 2010 http://newsweekly.com.au/article.php?id=4293</span></span>
Al Qaeda cannot…is a fantasy
Even so, drone strikes causes more terrorism. SHAH.
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">SIKANDER AHMED,University of Michigan Ann Arbor; Assistant Professor of Law and Policy, LUMS University, Lahore, Pakistan, War on Terrorism: Self Defense, Operation Enduring Freedom, and the Legality of U.S. Drone Attacks in Pakistan) A.L.</span>
Drone attacks exacerbate…for their causes
Contention 2: Soft power

American soft power is in decline
Mitchell, Lincoln A. “Is U.S. Soft Power Declining Too?” October 15, 2010. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">ttp://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&ved=0CCIQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Facademiccommons.columbia.edu%2Fdownload%2Ffedora_content%2Fdownload%2Fac%3A140861%2FCONTENT%2FIs_U.S._Soft_Power_Declining_Too.pdf&ei=W-o8UJiyCoia9gTOm4DgAg&usg=AFQjCNFoOovQcQv2Jfcyzq2UK4EvTD4Ikg&sig2=puzjPFudBXHYwBxhI82Rfw</span>
It is difficult…require some innovation
Giving due process rights to detainees is key to repair our image abroad
<span class="CitesChar">Coleman __Wagner__- 200__9__, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Soft Power and International Public Opinion: U.S Presidents and the Treatment of Prisoners of War,http://web3.unt.edu/honors/eaglefeather/wp-content/2009/08/Wagner_Coleman.pdf</span>
The military commissions…war on terrorism
**Soft power is key to manage global crises Hamre ‘7:**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">CSIS COMMISSION ON SMART POWER:A smarter, more secure America, 2007. Forward: restoring America’s Inspirational Leadership, by John J. Hamre. </span>[[http://www.csis.org/component/option,com_csis_pubs/task,view/id,4156/type,1/#_blank|http://www.csis.org/component/option,com_csis_pubs/task,view/id,4156/type,1/#_blank]]
The threat America…sources of power
**The lack of an strong US presence will cause power conflicts that escalate into nuclear wars. Kagan ‘7:**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Kagan, 7 (Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Policy Review, August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)</span>
Several large powers…least two centuries
**Any use of nuclear weapons will escalate and cause extinction.**

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Founder of NZ Nuclear-Free Peacemaking Association [Larry, “RACING TOWARD EXTINCTION,” Dec 10, http://nuclearfree.lynx.co.nz/racing.htm] </span>
Nuclear weapons have…which ends humanity
Underview
1. permissibility goes aff
2. aff gets rvi’s
3. social contract only when a rights tradeoff occurs
==Negative== 
===Kevin Durant=== 
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ought also equates to can.</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gracyk’s explains:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Theodore Gracyk Philosophy Department Minnesota State University Moorhead. </span>__<span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">http://web.mnstate.edu/gracyk/courses/phil%20318/ought-can_Outline.htm</span>__

Ought implies can…did nothing wrong

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There is just too much bias against those accused with terrorism. Wedgewood.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Ruth </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Wedgwood</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, Professor of Law at Yale Law School, December 3rd, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">2001</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, “The Case for Military Tribunals” Wall Street Journal. http://www.law.yale.edu/news/3297.htm</span>

In federal court…witnesses fear revenge

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">fact finding is impossible</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. Stimson.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Charles </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Stimson</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, Senior Legal Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, April 5th, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, “Testimony before Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security,” United States House of Representatives. http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/04/justice-for-america-using-military-commissions-to-try-the-911-conspirators</span>

Certain cases face…derail the prosecution

===Phelps NC=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Uniqueness: Obama will win—prefer recency and Gallup Poll. US News 8/27,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lauren Fox, writer for US News, “Americans Predict Obama Will Win, Even if They are Voting for Romney” August 27, 2012</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A Gallup Poll…the better leader</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama sweeps three-forths of the electoral votes. Silver 9/5,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nate Silver, “Sept. 4: The Simple Case for Why Obama Is the Favorite” 9/5/12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our forcast has…will eventually lose</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B is the link:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The tribunals they use for Gitmo violate due process rights</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SICHREM writes,</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">SICHREM, or </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333;">South India Cell for Human Rights Education and Monitoring,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> “Human Rights Violation: Guantanamo Bay” 2004[[http://www.sichrem.org/popup.php?ArtifactID=432]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The combatant Status…from naming prisoners</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">democrats want Guantanamo bay to stay open. 2/9,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333;">Andrew Rosenthal, writer for NY times, “</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hurray for Guantanamo Bay” February 9, 2012</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">70 percent of…it in operation</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama’s pushing to ratify CTBT – his defeat crushes the initiative. Schneidmiller 11,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chris </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schneidmiller</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ,"Senate Decision Key to Future of Test Ban Treaty," Global Security Newswire, 7-18-</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">,[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20110714_9351.php]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">U.S. approval draw…would remain frozen</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US Ratification Is Key To Prevent Global Prolif and Nuke War. Davis 09,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ian </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Davis</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Co-Executive Director of the British American Security Information Council, “Getting the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Back on Track” 05-11-</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">2009</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Test of an…CTBT secure ratification</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Or......</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">Romeny will undercut if not ban the EPA,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John M. Broder 8/18/2011 “Bashing E.P.A. Is New Theme in G.O.P. Race”, New York Times.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Environmental Protection Agency is emerging......to regulate carbon emissions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">EPA key to check runaway warming</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Christian </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Parenti</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (writer for the Nation) April </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">2010</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> NPR "The Nation: The Case for EPA Action"</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On April 1 the Environmental Protection Agency established......The EPA is our last, best hope.</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]