[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==VMT== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: center;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 22pt;">__Contention One: Inherency__</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">An infrastructure funding crisis is imminent- failure to create a sustainable source of revenue will add to the deficit and stifle economic growth.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Rahman et al, 11</span> <span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">__(Lazeena Rahman is a Graduate School of Business and Public Policy student at Stanford, Kumi Harischandra, Justine Isola, and Anthony Suen are graduate students in Stanford’s International Policy Studies program, Prepared for: Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Going Forward: Prospects for Transitioning from Gas Taxes to Vehicle-Miles-Traveled Fees” p. ix) APB__</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">The National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission predicts that if current policy stands, the</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">funding to cover current shortfalls will only further contribute to the national deficit.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">State mileage charges are inevitable, but the federal government must act quickly to encourage experimentation and ensure interoperability-this was the unanimous recommendation of the bipartisan Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission 9</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;"> (</span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://financecommission.dot.gov/Documents/NSTIF_Commission_Final_Report_Advance%20Copy_Feb09.pdf]]</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">, February 26</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: super;">th</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2009 P.170)LD</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">Direct user charges in the form of mileage-based user charges are the most</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">the nation needs and supporting the national policy goals to which we aspire.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: center;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 22pt;">__Plan__</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for implementation of distance based user fees in the United States.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: center;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 22pt;">__Contention Two: The Environment__</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: center;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 16pt;">__Scenario 1 is Warming__</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Warming is real, anthropogenic and still reversible</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 12pt;">__Nuccitelli 11__</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Dana Nuccitelli is an environmental scientist at a private environmental consulting firm in the Sacramento, California area. He has a Bachelor's Degree in astrophysics from the University of California at Berkeley, and a Master's Degree in physics from the University of California at Davis. He has been researching climate science, economics, and solutions as a hobby since 2006, and has contributed to Skeptical Science since September, 2010., Updated 2011, Originally Posted 9/24/2010, “The Big Picture”, http://www.skepticalscience.com/big-picture.html)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">The Earth is Warming We know the planet is warming from surface temperature stations and</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">mitigate climate change, and failing to do so would be exceptionally foolish.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Causes extinction by di-hydrogen sulfide which destroys ozone, past extinctions prove</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Ward 10</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 9pt;">(Peter, PhD, professor of Biology and Earth and Space Sciences at the University of Washington, paleontologist and NASA astrobiologist, Fellow at the California Academy of Sciences, The Flooded Earth: Our Future in a World Without Ice Caps, June 29, 2010)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">In the rest of this chapter I will support a contention that within several millennia</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">Planet Earth: the thermohaline current systems, sometimes called the conveyor currents.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">GHGs are causing ocean acidification which will lead to the extinction of 90% of all species, past extinctions prove</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Boswell 11 </span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">(Randy, 9-8-2011, Senior Reporter for Postmedia News, “Canadian study blames ocean acidity for mass extinction”, Postmedia News, http://www.canada.com/technology/Canadian+study+blames+ocean+acidity+mass+extinction/5372056/story.html)</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">A Canadian-led team of scientists may have solved the biggest whodunit in Earth</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">creatures that manufacture their own bodily structures from minerals found in ocean water.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Vehicle miles traveled is about to skyrocket – only the plan can solve warming</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Sperling and Cannon 8</span> <span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 9pt;">(Daniel, Professor of Civil Engineering and Environmental Science and Policy, Director of the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California, Davis, Acting Director of the UC Davis Energy Efficiency Center, and James, Editor of Energy Futures, Reducing Climate Impacts in the Transportation Sector, Springer, December 8, 2008, pg. 118)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">Climate scientists now estimate that global carbon emissions must stabilize at about 70-80</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">transportation CO2 emissions from surface transportation in 2055 93 percent above 1990 levels.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Other parameters are on track now, but only VMT can get us below 1990 C02 levels fast enough to solve climate change</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Ewing et al 7 </span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">(research professor at the National Center for Smart Growth, University of Maryland, associate editor of the Journal of the American Planning Association, Keith Bartholomew, assistant professor of urban planning in the University of Utah’s College of Architecture and Planning, Steve Winkelman, director of the Transportation Program at the Center for Clean Air Policy, Jerry Walters, chief technical officer with Fehr & Peers Associates, a California- based transportation planning and engineering firm, and Don Chen, founder and executive director of Smart Growth America, has worked for the Surface Transportation Policy Project and the World Resources Institute, Growing Cooler: The Evidence on Urban Development and Climate Change, __The Urban Land Institute__, 2007, </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://postcarboncities.net/files/SGA_GrowingCooler9-18-07small.pdf]]</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">U.S. fuel economy has been flat for almost 15 years, as</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">transportation-related CO2 emissions without sharply reducing the growth in miles driven.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">U.S. transportation emissions are the key to solving warming, outweighs both China and India</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Sperling and Cannon 8 </span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 10pt;">(Daniel, Professor of Civil Engineering and Environmental Science and Policy, Director of the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California, Davis, Acting Director of the UC Davis Energy Efficiency Center, and James, Editor of Energy Futures, Reducing Climate Impacts in the Transportation Sector, __Springer__, December 8, 2008, pg. 1-2)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">Transportation accounts for about one-fifth of global GHG emissions causing climate change,</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">60 percent of the emissions resulted from gasoline consumption for personal vehicle use.</span></span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: center;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 16pt;">__Scenario 2 is Resources__</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">VMT reverses urban sprawl – creating dense communities</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Langer and Winston 8</span> <span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ashley and Clifford, Ashley Langer is a Professor of Public Policy and Economics at the University of Michigan and Clifford Winston is Senior Fellow in the Economic Studies Program at the Brookings Institution, Brookings-Wharton Papers on Urban Affairs , “Toward a Comprehensive Assessment of Road Pricing Accounting for Land Use”, </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/brookings-wharton_papers_on_urban_affairs/v2008/2008.%20langer.html|http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/brookings-wharton_papers_on_urban_affairs/v2008/2008. langer.html]]</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">) AH</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">We also point out that by improving land use, road pricing may produce additional</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">directly. Hopefully, policymakers would be less inclined to pursue inefficient approaches.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Solving sprawl will drastically reduce energy usage and cut emissions by 70 percent</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Owen 9</span> <span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Harvard graduate and editor of the Harvard Lampoon, author of 17 books, writes for the New Yorker among other publications. Cut from Interview by the American Society of Landscape Architects on his book Green Metropolis: Why Living Smaller, Living closer and Driving Less are the keys to sustainability at </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://www.asla.org/ContentDetail.aspx?id=25268]]</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">) APB</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">New York City has the smallest per-capita carbon footprint of any American community</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">most important efficiencies are built-in. And for the same reasons.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">The world is running out of energy resources and alternatives won’t solve for impending world wars, we can only solve by decreasing energy usage, especially of oil. Their defenses don’t assume radical shifts in global power and economic coercion.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Klare 08</span> <span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 9pt;">(Michael T Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College,</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The rise of the new energy world order, </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/JD17Dj04.html]]</span> <span class="zw-portion" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> Oil at US$110 a barrel. Gasoline at $3.35 (or more) per gallon. Diesel fuel at $4 per gallon. Independent truckers forced off the road. Home heating oil rising to unconscionable price levels. Jet fuel so expensive that three low-cost airlines stopped flying in the past few weeks. This is just a taste of the latest energy news… climate-friendly energy alternatives. </span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: center;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 22pt;">__Contention Three: Solvency__</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">We can begin phasing in a VMT based system now- the plan ensures State action and the Oregon trial demonstrates the concept is feasible and privacy can be protected, but Congress must act to create a national architecture and expand current trials.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Wachs 9 </span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">(Martin, director of the Transportation, Space, and Technology Program at the RAND Corporation, Issues in Science and Technology, Summer, http://www.issues.org/25.4/wachs.html)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">Motor fuel taxes can continue to provide a great deal of needed revenue for a</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">to make complex technological choices that are both cost-effective and just.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">VMT returns us to a sustainable user-pays model- a fee of just 2 cents per mile is sufficient to maintain infrastructure investment over the long term.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Mineta and Skinner, former Secretaries of Transportation, 10 </span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 9pt;">(Norman Y. Mineta and Samuel K. Skinner, Well Within Reach America’s New Transportation Agenda, </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://web1.millercenter.org/conferences/report/conf_2009_transportation.pdf]]</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 9pt;">) Azimi</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">There is a broad consensus that federal highway maintenance and investment needs should continue to</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">compared to other new highway funding mechanisms that have been proposed or considered.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">VMT fee generates billions in revenue, solves congestion, increases public transit ridership even without detailed GPS data – London proves</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Baker et al 9</span> <span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ginger Goodin, Richard T. Baker and Lindsay Taylor, Texas Transportation Institute, Sponsored by the USDoT, “Mileage-Based User Fees: Defining a Path toward Implementation Phase 2: An Assessment of Institutional Issues” p. 17-8) APB</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">Mileage‐based user fees have the potential to generate significant amounts of data with</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">projects surveyed. Table 1: International User Fee System Pricing and Policy Objectives</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">China will model – VMT creates a revenue surplus and leadership spurs transition.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Revkin 8</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;"> Senior Editor of Discover, Staff Writer at the Los Angeles Times, and Senior Writer at the Science Digest [Andrew C., “Skeptics on Human Climate Impact Seize on Cold Spell” The New York Times March 2]</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">Theories abound over how best to help China embrace emissions-reducing policies. One</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">telling China what to do. It has to lead by example.''</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">VMT is the only way to solve sprawl</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 13pt;">Owen 9</span> <span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Harvard graduate and editor of the Harvard Lampoon, author of 17 books, writes for the New Yorker among other publications. Cut from Interview by the American Society of Landscape Architects on his book Green Metropolis: Why Living Smaller, Living closer and Driving Less are the keys to sustainability at </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://www.asla.org/ContentDetail.aspx?id=25268]]</span><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 8pt;">) APB</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">To get people out of their cars, you have to do two things.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; text-align: start;"><span class="zw-portion" style="font-size: 11pt;">feels compelled to take the train because there’s always a place to park.</span></span>

==Ice Breakers== 
==Contention 1: Inherency== 
====The Coast Guard is unequipped to handle Arctic missions: needs new icebreakers==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wolf and Klimasinska 7/18/12 </span>
(Carol Wolf, reporter, Kasia Klimasinska, reporter, 7/18/12, “Shell-Led Arctic Push Finds U.S. Shy in Icebreakers: Energy”, Bloomberg, [[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-07-18/shell-led-arctic-push-finds-u-dot-s-dot-shy-in-icebreakers-energy#p1|http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-07-18/shell-led-arctic-push-finds-u-dot-s-dot-shy-in-icebreakers-energy#p1]]) aw
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) has spent $4.5 billion since
AND
require some investment. We don’t have the infrastructure in place right now.”

====New Arctic shipping routes would require the creation of new icebreakers==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Konovalov 12</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Candidate of Sciences, head of the World’s Ocean Center at the State Research Institution “Council for the Study of the Productive Forces” (SOPS), Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation and Russian Academy of Sciences, and the Section for Public–Private Partnership Issues at the Science-Expert Council of the Government’s Marine Board)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alexei Konovalov, May 1 2012, The issues and prospects of an expanded arctic transportation network, http://www.institutenorth.org/assets/images/uploads/articles/The_issues_and_prospects_of_an_expanded_arctic_transportation_network.pdf</span>
A number of key problems hinder the Northern Sea Route’s full incorporation into the system
AND
of the regional population and the operation of local territorial-production complexes.

====Melting ice increases the opportunities and hazards of Arctic transit – route safety is key==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wilkinson 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr Angela Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment University of Oxford, November, http://www.smithschool.ox.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/SSEE-Arctic-Forecasting-Study-November-2011.pdf</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Historically, transiting northerly routes over Europe, Asia, and North America has been
AND
hazards may be difficult to ascertain, at least in the near future.
==Plan== 

====The United States federal government should create and maintain shipping lanes through its icebound territorial waters off the coast of Alaska.==== 
==Advantage 1 is Science== 

====The aging US fleet of icebreakers threatens the sustainability of Antarctic research – McMurdo and South Station==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morello 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lauren, “US Polar Research May Slow for Lack of an Icebreaker”, [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=us-polar-research-may-slow-lack-icebreaker]], 7.28.11, [CL])</span>
Have a spare polar icebreaker lying around? The National Science Foundation would like to
AND
re-supply fuel, if there is not an icebreaker this season."



====Inability to resupply Arctic research bases collapses the Antarctic Treaty System and causes a scramble for control==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NAP 7 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The National Academies Press, National Advisers in Science, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs” 2007, Online [HT])</span>
Until recently, the two Polar class icebreakers (sometimes together and sometimes separately depending
AND
to the continued existence of these stations and their associated outlying field sites.

====ATS collapse breaks the backbone of arctic science==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dastidar and Persson 5</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Prabir G. Dastidar, Department of Ocean Development in New Delhi, and Olle Persson, Umea University Department of Sociology, “Mapping the global structure of Antarctic research vis-à-vis Antarctic Treaty System” IAS, Current Science Volume 89 Number 9, 11-10-2005, Online [HT])</span>
ANTARCTICA is a continent of science and peace, a common heritage of mankind.
AND
visualize the functioning of the ATS, where science is occupying a central place

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Artic climate science is the key internal link to adaptation success and regional disaster prediction </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">UN Environmental Program 9 </span>(United Nations Environmental Porgramme March “Assessing the impacts of climate change on food security in the Canadian arctic” http://www.grida.no/files/publications/foodsec_updt_LA_lo.pdf)
Understanding, adapting, and responding to Arctic climate change and the threat to food
AND
capabilities (Furgal et al. 2002; Nickels et al. 2002).

====Without scientific certainty, adaptation will fail - key to disease, crop yields, and biodiversity==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stutz 9</span> (former editor-in-chief of Natural History)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Bruce Stutz writes on science, nature, and the environment. A former editor-in-chief of Natural History, he is a contributing editor to OnEarth. He has written for the New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, Discover and Audubon. He is the author of Natural Lives, Modern Times and Chasing Spring, An American Journey Through a Changing Season 26 May 2009, “Adaptation Emerges as Key Part of Any Climate Change Plan”, http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2156</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce Stutz writes on science, nature, and the environment. A former editor-in-chief of Natural History, he is a contributing editor to OnEarth. He has written for the New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, Discover and Audubon. He is the author of Natural Lives, Modern Times and Chasing Spring, An American Journey Through a Changing Season 26 May 2009, “Adaptation Emerges as Key Part of Any Climate Change Plan”, http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2156</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> With nations in the industrialized and developing worlds continuing to pump record levels of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">hopes are fading </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> understanding vulnerabilities, evaluating adaptive potential, and attempting to make people and places resilient to a possible range of changes.</span>

====Warming is already inevitable, adaptation is the only way to solve==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gitlin</span> (writer for arstechnica) <span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span>
[Jonathan M. Gitlin, January 27, 2009, “Study: too late to turn back the clock on climate change,” http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2009/01/study-too-late-to-turn-back-the-clock-on-climate-change.ars]
This week's PNAS brings with it some bad news on the climate front: even
AND
these effects look set to persist for at least until the year 3000.

====Decreased crop yields lead to world war three==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calvin</span> (professor at the university of Washington) **02**
(William H Calvin, University of Washington, A Brain For All Seasons, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/past/docs/issues/98jan/climate2.htm]]
FUTURISTS have learned to bracket the future with alternative scenarios, each of which captures
AND
the best of times, but not in the case of widespread disruptions.

==Advantage 2 is Arctic Escalation== 
===Scenario 1 is Shipping lanes=== 

====Shipping collapse is coming==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Harjani 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ansuya Harjani Assistant Producer, CNBC Mar 2012 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnbc.com/id/46598543/For_Shippers_2012_Is_a_Year_of_Crisis_Dry_Bulk_Operator]])</span>

Lack of funding, oversupply and poor freight rates are going make 2012 a “
AND
so strengthening our presence there makes a lot of sense,” he said.


====Artic lane creation solves every internal for shipping collase – space, time, money, and fuel==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scarpati 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kevin </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">Scarpati</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">**,** 10/5/12 “Melting Polar Ice Opens New Arctic Shipping Routes” [[http://www.supplychaindigital.com/global_logistics/melting-polar-ice-opens-new-arctic-shipping-routes]])</span>
Whether you believe in global warming or not, ice levels in the Arctic Sea
AND
save 22 days on transportation, it is very good business for us.”

====Shipping collapse tanks global economy, plan generates billions and is the best internal link to jobs and deficit reduction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lautenbacher 6 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(ADM Conrad C. Lautenbacher, Jr., USN (Ret.) Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere NOAA Administrator “World Maritime Technology Conference” </span><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 8pt;">ß</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> spoken March 6, 2006; [[http://www.pco.noaa.gov/PPTs/IMarEST.ppt|www.pco.noaa.gov/PPTs/IMarEST.ppt]] //STRONG])</span>
I would like to start with talking about the importance of Marine Technology in supporting
AND
need to observe and connect systems to provide information from multiple data sources.
====Economic competitiveness and interdependence prevents nuclear war, especially with China==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, ’11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Zalmay</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Khalilzad</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, “ The Economy and National Security”, 2-8-11, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024]]]</span>
We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth.
AND
to work our way through the kind of crisis that we face today.
===Scenario 2 is Military Presence=== 
====Russia and China are dominating now, icebreakers are key to US Arctic Sea lane access to check aggressive expansion and maintain relative economic power==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Treadwell , ’11</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Mead Treadwell, Lieutenant Governor of Alaska, December 1, “America is Missing the Boat” Congressional Testimony United States House of Representatives Committee Transportation on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyCGMT/2011-12-1-Treadwell.pdf)</span>
We’ve said it before – in my appearance before this Subcommittee in 2006 and in
AND
in Arctic exploration as they have one-fifth of the world’s population.

====Arctic tensions at __all time high__ – lack of ice-breakers make the military __useless__==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">AP</span> 4/16/<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">12</span>
(“The new cold war: Militaries eying Arctic resources” April 16, 2012, Associated Press)
To the world's military leaders, the debate over climate change is long over.
AND
and has been working closely with the scientific community to calibrate its response.

====Strengthening Alaskan bases is the key internal link to stopping all-out Arctic war==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dowd, 11</span>
(MA-Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979)
One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by
AND
Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.

====Russia is already projecting military force in the Arctic, and has made physical military presence the deciding factor in the region==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohen, et al 8</span> (phd, Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., is Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security; Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation; Jim Dolbow is a defense analyst and a member of the Editorial Board at the U.S. Naval Institute, “The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic,” The Heritage Foundation, Backgrounder No. 2202, 10-30-2008, http://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2008/pdf/bg2202.pdf)</span>
Russian Ambitions. Russia recognizes the multifaceted potential of the Arctic and is moving rapidly
AND
toward the Arctic has been irresolute and inadequate. This needs to change.
====U.S. presence is key to diplomatic alternatives==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Borgerson 8</span> (International Affairs Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Scott G. Borgerson, International Affairs Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard, “Arctic Meltdown: The Economic and Security Implications of Global Warming,” Foreign Affairs, March/April 2008, http://royaldutchshellplc.com/2008/02/28/foreignaffairsorg-arctic-meltdown-the-economic-and-security-implications-of-global-warming/)</span>
\ While the other Arctic powers are racing to carve up the region, the
AND
, the region could erupt in an armed mad dash for its resources.


====Those conflicts go nuclear==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wallace, 10</span>
(Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia, March, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons A Task Long Overdue”, http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf)

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition.
AND
geo-political/economic significance of the Arctic because of climate change.”

====That guarantees extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Corcoran 9 </span>
(PhD, Senior Fellow @ Global Security, Frmr. Strategic Analyst at the US Army War College where he chaired studies for the Office of the Deputy Chief of Operations and member of the National Advisory Board for the Alsos Digital Library for Nuclear Issues, we win the qualification game, 4/21, http://sitrep.globalsecurity.org/articles/090421301-strategic-nuclear-targets.htm)

That brings us to Russia, our former main adversary, now a competitive partner
AND
greatly complicate any efforts to stop escalation short of a total nuclear exchange.


==Contention 2: Solvency== 

====Coast Guard only needs two new icebreakers to solve==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Rourke 08</span>
Ronald O’Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, February 26 2008, Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background, Issues, and Options for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf
Regarding the potential for leasing icebreakers owned by foreign governments or private firms, issues
AND
that differ from those of both the NRC report and the Coast Guard.

====Coast Guard has jurisdiction and experience over sea lanes and icebreakers==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">US Coast Guard 12</span>
United States Coast Guard, Jan 26, 2012, Roles and Missions, [[http://www.uscg.mil/petaluma/e-pme/e-pme/apprentice/B-Lessons/3-B-01.pdf]]
The Coast Guard carries out numerous port and waterways management tasks and has the responsibility
AND
services; domestic icebreaking to facilitate commerce; and technical assistance and advice.

====And don’t even THINK about leasing boats from the private sector==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Rourke 12</span>
Ronald O’Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, June 15, 2012, Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf
Leasing was also considered as a nonmaterial solution. While there is no dispute that
AND
that point, around 2020, the heavy icebreaking capability bridging strategy expires.

=Icebreakers-Bioterror= 
==Contention 1: Inherency== 
====The U.S. is unequipped to handle Arctic missions: needs new icebreakers==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wolf and Klimasinska 7/18/12 </span>
(Carol Wolf, reporter, Kasia Klimasinska, reporter, 7/18/12, “Shell-Led Arctic Push Finds U.S. Shy in Icebreakers: Energy”, Bloomberg, [[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-07-18/shell-led-arctic-push-finds-u-dot-s-dot-shy-in-icebreakers-energy#p1|http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-07-18/shell-led-arctic-push-finds-u-dot-s-dot-shy-in-icebreakers-energy#p1]])
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) has spent $4.5 billion since
AND
require some investment. We don’t have the infrastructure in place right now.” 

====New Arctic shipping routes would require the creation of new icebreakers==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Konovalov 12</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Candidate of Sciences, head of the World’s Ocean Center at the State Research Institution “Council for the Study of the Productive Forces” (SOPS), Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation and Russian Academy of Sciences, and the Section for Public–Private Partnership Issues at the Science-Expert Council of the Government’s Marine Board)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alexei Konovalov, May 1 2012, The issues and prospects of an expanded arctic transportation network, http://www.institutenorth.org/assets/images/uploads/articles/The_issues_and_prospects_of_an_expanded_arctic_transportation_network.pdf</span>
A number of key problems hinder the Northern Sea Route’s full incorporation into the system
AND
of the regional population and the operation of local territorial-production complexes.

==Plan== 

====The United States federal government should create and maintain shipping lanes through its icebound territorial waters off the coast of Alaska.==== 
==Advantage 1 is Science== 

===Scenario 1 is Climate Change=== 
====The aging US fleet of icebreakers threatens Antarctic research==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morello 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lauren, “US Polar Research May Slow for Lack of an Icebreaker”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=us-polar-research-may-slow-lack-icebreaker]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 7.28.11, [CL])</span>
Have a spare polar icebreaker lying around? The National Science Foundation would like to
AND
re-supply fuel, if there is not an icebreaker this season."



====Inability to resupply research bases collapses the Antarctic Treaty System and causes a scramble for control==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NAP 7 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The National Academies Press, National Advisers in Science, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs” 2007, Online [HT])</span>
Until recently, the two Polar class icebreakers (sometimes together and sometimes separately depending
AND
to the continued existence of these stations and their associated outlying field sites.

====ATS failure collapses arctic science==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dastidar and Persson 5</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Prabir G. Dastidar, Department of Ocean Development in New Delhi, and Olle Persson, Umea University Department of Sociology, “Mapping the global structure of Antarctic research vis-à-vis Antarctic Treaty System” IAS, Current Science Volume 89 Number 9, 11-10-2005, Online [HT])</span>
ANTARCTICA is a continent of science and peace, a common heritage of mankind.
AND
visualize the functioning of the ATS, where science is occupying a central place

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Artic climate science is the key internal link to adaptation success and regional disaster prediction </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">UN Environmental Program 9 </span>(United Nations Environmental Porgramme March “Assessing the impacts of climate change on food security in the Canadian arctic” http://www.grida.no/files/publications/foodsec_updt_LA_lo.pdf)
Understanding, adapting, and responding to Arctic climate change and the threat to food
AND
capabilities (Furgal et al. 2002; Nickels et al. 2002).

====Without scientific certainty, adaptation will fail - key to disease, crop yields, and biodiversity==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stutz 9</span> (former editor-in-chief of Natural History)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Bruce Stutz writes on science, nature, and the environment. A former editor-in-chief of Natural History, he is a contributing editor to OnEarth. He has written for the New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, Discover and Audubon. He is the author of Natural Lives, Modern Times and Chasing Spring, An American Journey Through a Changing Season 26 May 2009, “Adaptation Emerges as Key Part of Any Climate Change Plan”, http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2156</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce Stutz writes on science, nature, and the environment. A former editor-in-chief of Natural History, he is a contributing editor to OnEarth. He has written for the New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, Discover and Audubon. He is the author of Natural Lives, Modern Times and Chasing Spring, An American Journey Through a Changing Season 26 May 2009, “Adaptation Emerges as Key Part of Any Climate Change Plan”, http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2156</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> With nations in the industrialized and developing worlds continuing to pump record levels of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">hopes are fading that</span>
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">evaluating adaptive potential, and attempting to make people and places resilient to a possible range of changes.</span>

====Warming is already inevitable, adaptation is the only way to solve==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gitlin</span> (writer for arstechnica) <span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span>
[Jonathan M. Gitlin, January 27, 2009, “Study: too late to turn back the clock on climate change,” http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2009/01/study-too-late-to-turn-back-the-clock-on-climate-change.ars]
This week's PNAS brings with it some bad news on the climate front: even
AND
these effects look set to persist for at least until the year 3000.

====Loss of biodiversity causes extinction—agriculture collapse, disease, and warming==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mmom 8</span> (Dr. Prince Chinedu Mmom, University of Port Harcourt in Negira, African Institute of Environmental Policy, 2008, “Rapid decline in biodiversity: a threat to survival of humankind”)
An intelligent question that would arise giving the state of our biodiversity would be:
AND
wise policy of conservation and development can be based for centuries to come.

===Scenario 2 is Bioterror=== 

====Bioterror attack inevitable in the short-term—open research data and ease of development==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Homeland Security Today 7-19 </span>(2012, “Public Health World At Risk: Bioterrorism 2013”, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/public-health/single-article-page/world-at-risk-bioterrorism-2013.html)
As Anthony Kimery points out in his recent article on the security risks associated with
AND
weaponized and used in a bioterror attack can be readily found in nature.
====Bioterror leads to extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2 </span>(Richard Ochs, ANALYST FOR THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS WORKING GROUP, July 9 2002 -- “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY” -- http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)
Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered biological weapons, many
AND
Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.
====Live vaccination can’t happen now – too expensive==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Duplantis et al 10 –</span> (Barry N., 7/14, “Essential genes from Arctic bacteria used to construct stable, temperature-sensitive bacterial vaccines,” PNAS, http://www.pnas.org/content/107/30/13456.full)
In this study we have exploited the conservation of function of bacterial essential genes and
AND
species and including bacteria with genomes of widely different G+C contents.
We have highlighted in this work the possibility of using psychrophilic essential genes for constructing
AND
of dangerous pathogens to be performed without the need for full physical containment.

====Only live vaccination can solve biowarfare==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nataro 8</span> – Medical Professor @ the University of Maryland, Baltimore (James P, 6/30, “A Salmonella-based plague vaccine,” http://www.researchgrantdatabase.com/g/1U19AI056578/)

Yersinia pestis is the causative agent of plague and constitutes an important biowarfare and bioterror
AND
most likely in conjunction with subunit vaccines already in advanced stages of development.
====Polar science is key to low-temperature biomedical research==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NRC 7</span> (National Research Council, “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD:An Assessment of U.S. Needs, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, Polar Research Board, Division on Earth and Life Studies NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1)

Arctic biological research addresses basic questions about the role of the Arctic in the global
AND
.g., development of improved cryopreservation techniques) (NRC, 2004).
====Low-temperature biomedicine is key to develop affordable live vaccination capacity==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Duplantis et al 10</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Barry N., 7/14, “Essential genes from Arctic bacteria used to construct stable, temperature-sensitive bacterial vaccines,” PNAS, http://www.pnas.org/content/107/30/13456.full) </span>
All organisms have a group of genes that are indispensible for their viability. Members
AND
provide protection against a subsequent challenge by a virulent form of the pathogen.
==Advantage 2 is Arctic Escalation== 
====Best scholarship proves Arctic war is coming==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Murray 12 </span>
(Professor of Political Science @ Alberta, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1)

It is no overstatement to say that the end of the Cold War was one
AND
the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.
====Arctic tensions are at an all-time high and lack of icebreakers make the military useless==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talmadge 12</span> (Eric, Huff Post, “Arctic Climate Change Opening Region To New Military Activity.” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/04/16/arctic-climate-change-military-activity_n_1427565.html)
To the world's military leaders, the debate over climate change is long over.
AND
and has been working closely with the scientific community to calibrate its response.

====The plan’s investment sends an immediate signal and enables Arctic cooperation==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dowd, 11</span>
(MA-Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979)
One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by
AND
Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.

====U.S. presence is key to diplomatic alternatives==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Borgerson 8</span> (International Affairs Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Scott G. Borgerson, International Affairs Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard, “Arctic Meltdown: The Economic and Security Implications of Global Warming,” Foreign Affairs, March/April 2008, http://royaldutchshellplc.com/2008/02/28/foreignaffairsorg-arctic-meltdown-the-economic-and-security-implications-of-global-warming/)</span>
\ While the other Arctic powers are racing to carve up the region, the
AND
, the region could erupt in an armed mad dash for its resources.

====Arctic conflict goes nuclear==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wallace & Staples 10</span> (Michael Wallace and Steven Staples. *Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia AND ** President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue,”http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf)
The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition.
AND
in which nuclear powers find themselves in military confrontation can be taken lightly.

====That guarantees extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Corcoran 9 </span>
(PhD, Senior Fellow @ Global Security, Frmr. Strategic Analyst at the US Army War College where he chaired studies for the Office of the Deputy Chief of Operations and member of the National Advisory Board for the Alsos Digital Library for Nuclear Issues, we win the qualification game, 4/21, http://sitrep.globalsecurity.org/articles/090421301-strategic-nuclear-targets.htm)

That brings us to Russia, our former main adversary, now a competitive partner
AND
greatly complicate any efforts to stop escalation short of a total nuclear exchange.

==Contention 2: Solvency== 
====Federal investment in just two new icebreakers would solve and nothing else does==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jones 6</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Anita, Ph.D in computer science @ Carnegie Mellon, Director of Defense Research and Engineering for the U.S. Department of Defense 1993-97, researcher & director @ National Academy of Sciences, prof @ U of Virginia, 9/26/6, “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD: AN ASSESSMENT OF U.S. NEEDS”, Congressional Testimony, http://www7.nationalacademies.org/ocga/testimony/Polar_Icebreakers_in_a_Changing_World.asp)</span>
RENEWAL OF THE NATION’S POLAR ICEBREAKING FLEET¶ Projecting an active and influential presence in
AND
designed ship would also meet more stringent environmental standards than the current ships.
====Existing Navy Ships can be modified to solve in the short term==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">National Research Council 11</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Committee on National Security Implications of Climate Change for U.S. Naval Forces</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">“National Security Implications of Climate Change for U.S. Naval Forces” p.54-7 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">ISBN-10: 0-309-15425-1) </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">APB</span>
Related to this, the Navy should evaluate requirements for future surface combatants and auxiliaries
AND
attack submarines to support the projected increase in under-ice missions.36

====Melting ice increases the opportunities and hazards of Arctic transit – route safety is key==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wilkinson 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr Angela Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment University of Oxford, November, http://www.smithschool.ox.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/SSEE-Arctic-Forecasting-Study-November-2011.pdf</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Historically, transiting northerly routes over Europe, Asia, and North America has been
AND
hazards may be difficult to ascertain, at least in the near future.



=Negative= 
==Elections== 
====Obama will win narrowly now—prefer state polls and predictions==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silver 10-31 </span>(Nate, “Oct. 30: What State Polls Suggest About the National Popular Vote”, //New York Times//, [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/31/oct-30-what-state-polls-suggest-about-the-national-popular-vote/]])
Suppose, for example, that you take the consensus forecast in each state.
AND
if he prevails in the states where he is leading in the polls.

====Transportation swings the election—voters will backlash against federal infrastructure projects==== 
Ken <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Orski, 2/5/2012, f</span>ormer Associate Administration of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under Nixon, [[http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears]], “Why Pleas to Increase Infrastructure Funding Fall on Deaf Ears,” Accessed 10/15/2012
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

====Romney win collapses relations with China==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rogin 8-28 </span>(Josh, 2012, graduate of George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs, writer in Foreign Policy and the Washington Post for foreign affairs, specialization in US-Asia relations among several other regions, “Chinese media slams Romney as convention begins”, //Foreign Policy//, http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/08/28/chinese_media_slams_romney_as_convention_begins)
TAMPA - China's state-controlled media lashed out at GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney
AND
"to discourage any aggressive or coercive behavior by China against its neighbors."

====A relations collapse sparks military competition in East Asia, escalating to global nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser 11</span>
[Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, Foreign Affairs, “Will China's Rise Lead to War?”, March/April 2011, p. asp//wyo-tjc]
Confidence in the U.S. deterrent is likely to be reinforced by relatively
AND
in which the United States found itself following events rather than leading them.
==T Not Military== 
====Transportation infrastructure investment is non-military==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Congressional Budget Office 10</span> (“Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,”
http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf Accessed 7/10/12)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Although different definitions of “infrastructure” exist</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>
==<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Capitalism Kritik</span>== 
====FIRST, A TRANSITION FROM CAPITALISM IS INEVITABLE AS THE SYSTEM WILL SOON BE IN IT’S DEATH-THROES—THERE’S NOTHING LEFT TO EXPLOIT, STRUCTURAL UNEMPLOYMENT IS COMING, PARASITIC CAPITAL IS RAMPANT AND IDEOLOGICAL UNDERPINNINGS ARE COLLAPSING==== 
MESZAROS <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Prof. Emeritus @ Univ. Sussex) </span>1995
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Istavan, __Beyond Capital: Towards a Theory of Transition__, // ]</span>
p. 438-9
Characteristically, this is the only context in which the apologists of capital have,
AND
structural unemployment’ as the permanent feature of the one and only conceivable structure.
We can see here, again, the ‘eternalization of bourgeois conditions’, even
AND
they show the historical actuality of a painful but inescapable process of transition.

====Second, transportation key to capitalism—connects commodities to each other and adds surplus value to goods==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sheppard 90 </span>(Eric, editor at Environment and Planning, Professor at the Dept of Geography, Univ of Minnesota, “Transportation in a capitalist space-economy: transportation demand, circulation time, and transportation innovations”, //Environment and Planning//, 22(8), abstract, [[http://www.envplan.com/abstract.cgi?id=a221007]])
Transportation, as the service of moving commodities between places, plays a unique role
AND
in capitalism in the improvement of transportation and thus in underwriting capital accumulation.

====THIRD, THE TRANSITION IS THE ONLY POSSIBLE HOPE—THE ONLY ALTERNATIVE IS EXTINCTION OF ALL LIFE ON EARTH. SOONER IS BETTER==== 
LEWIS <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Instructor, Sewall Academic Program @ CU Boulder)</span> 2002
[Chris H., __On the Edge of Scarcity__, “Global Industrial Civilization: The Necessary Collapse”, ed. M. Dobkowski & I. Wallimann, Syracuse U. Press, p.__//mac- ]
In conclusion, the only solution to the growing political and eco nomic chaos caused
AND
all its peoples and the living, biological fabric of life on Earth.
The paradox of global economic development is that although it creates massive wealth and power
AND
and the future of the complex, interconnected web of life on Earth.

====Vote negative to endorse the Marxist education that is the 1NC.==== 
====This is not the alternative but in truth the only option—education in the existing social totality is the only solution that can engage the masses and avoid the failures of reformism while envisioning the path to a society beyond oppression==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Meszaros 10 </span>(Istvan, “The Structural Crisis of Capital”, //Monthly Review Press//, p. 199-202)
The neglect of Marxist education is unfortunately prevalent also in ¶ the capitalistically advanced countries
AND
This demands the radicalization of the still ¶ primarily reformist trade union movement.

==States CP== 
====The fifty states, all relevant United States Territories and Washington DC should (insert mandates of the aff plan). The fifty states, all relevant United States Territories and Washington DC should raise their state and local gas taxes to sufficiently pay for the plan.==== 

====States solve best—federal government only provides 22% of revenue and states have unique challenges and solutions==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">National Governors Association 09 </span>(1-5, “Innovative State Transportation Funding and Financing”, pg 5-6, http://www.nga.org/files/live/sites/NGA/files/pdf/0901TRANSPORTATIONFUNDING.PDF)
States play a key role in funding transportation and ¶ in strategic management of transportation
AND
nations, states are pioneering new ¶ means of funding and financing transportation.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]