== == 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 48px;">Grapevine IAC </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The desire for a carefree, utopian life embedded in mobility culture is based on a neurotic and repressive desire to be led, to be part of the herd, and to have someone else legislate life. Politics now can only squint at life from the point of view of security and safety that fosters fascism.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Seem 72 – Anti Oedipus, Introduction - Mark Seem. p xv-xvii. Bockmon *Gendered language not endoresed*</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">"Lie down, then, ... AND .... the outside world."</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The only way to resist fascism is to psychotically reorient and dissolve the way the State, paranoia, and other agencies of power that manifest enlightenment subjectivity.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Seem 72 – Anti Oedipus, Introduction - Mark Seem. p xx-xxii. Bockmon *Gendered language not endoresed*</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">To be anti-oedipal i... AND ... is mutual self-care.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Paths represent the States power to decide who is linked who and which parts of territories live and die. Only an ecological approach can account for the way nonhuman actors impact cultures, identities and paths. Certain towns died when railroads closed down. The north side of Chicago is more affluent than the south because of the localizing affects of transportation. The I-35 corridor of Austin, Texas was seen as a project to divide the city into industrial and affluent pockets of civil space. Thus for the United States federal government to invest in transportation infrastructure it must recognize the impact nonhuman components have on development of societies.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bryant 12 (Levi R. prof of philosophy, Collin College University of Dundee “Paths” http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/05/12/paths/#more-6132)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">A couple months ...AND ... side remains poor.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The highway machine enslaves humans in as much as it subjectifies us to its control. The road becomes the power of the State over neurosis that is only possible because of the subject/object relationship between the human and the road.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kuswa 4 (Kevin, PhD Communications, California State University, Fresno Department of Communication “Machinic Rhetoric, Highways and Interpellating Motions” Rhizomes Issue 8 (Spring 2004) JTB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">[4] Beginning with the ... AND ... production of subjectivity.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thus our reorientation is to adopt machine oriented ontology. We are a complete departure from the subject/object dichotomy that entraps us into neurosis and suffering at the hands of the State. A machine oriented ontology understands all objects as machines that exist thru their functioning and not thru their subjective interpretation.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bryant 12 (Levi, professor of Philosophy at Collins College, “Machine-Oriented Ontology: Towards a Pan-Mechanism”</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/06/21/machine-oriented-ontology-towards-a-pan-mechanism/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">What we need ... AND ... an entire geography.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The States subjectificaiton creates a lethal addiction to speed. 2 million humans have died from the roads enslavement yet our collective cultural desire actively seeks its control.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kuswa 4 (Kevin, PhD Communications, California State University, Fresno Department of Communication “Machinic Rhetoric, Highways and Interpellating Motions” Rhizomes Issue 8 (Spring 2004) JTB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">[16] We return to ... AND ... subjectivity through rhetoric.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 48px;">Memorial- IAC </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Nader and I begin with the Story of Pak Kumjoo </span>**

//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Whether it was morning or night, once one soldier left, the next soldier came. Twenty men would come in one day…</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">We would try to talk each other out of committing suicide, but even with that, women still did. There were women who stole opium and took it. If they took a lot of it, they would vomit blood and die. There were people who died after gulping medicine whose name they didn’t even know. There were also people who hanged themselves with their clothing when inside the toilet. Because there were people who tried to kill themselves even if they only had some string, we tried to hide string from each other…</span>//
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">This is the story of one of the many thousands of women who are victims of a brutality rooted in the militaristic occupation of Okinawa Japan. Since the beginning of the Vietnam War, this hegemonic sexual enslavement has bonded these women to the shackles of oppression characteristic of the holocaust.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Contention 1: Inherency </span>**
**The US plans on removing troops from Okinawa to stop this senseless brutality, yet that is dependent on the troops transfer to Guam where infrastructure is lacking, making the transition impossible.** 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mat</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">thews </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">6-12-12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Laura, International Business Times reporter, June 12, 2012, “Guam Faces Uncertain Future As U.S. Delays Shifting Marines From Okinawa,” </span><span style="font-size: 16px;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/351154/20120612/guam-military-buildup-relocation-marines-okinawa-real.htm]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, YX)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Plan text</span>**
**United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Guam.**

**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Contention II: Sexual violence</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">We pose the question: why do our soldiers desire such senseless sexual violence? Caitlin Maxwell argues that the desire is embedded in the military culture of white supremacy that see’s women as nonhuman objects ready to be exploited. She writes…</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Maxwell 09</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Maxwell, Caitlin.Moving beyond rape as a 'weapon of war': an exploration of militarized masculinity and its consequences." Canadian Woman Studies 28.1 (2009)) </span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">White supremacy not only justifies the rape and objectification of Okinawan women, it has justified the most violent war crimes and genocides to date. Maxwell continues…</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Maxwell 09</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Maxwell, Caitlin.Moving beyond rape as a 'weapon of war': an exploration of militarized masculinity and its consequences." Canadian Woman Studies 28.1 (2009)) </span>



<span style="font-size: 16px;">The 1AC problematizes the radicalized and gendered narrative of ‘civilization’. The notion that we are simulating policy requires that we take it seriously in confronting the white supremacy of American political discourse; failure to do so results in a militarization of daily life and colonialist domination of the globe. Philosopher Angela Davis writes…</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Davis 08</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Angela Davis, retired professor with the History of Consciousness Department at the University of California, Santa Cruz and is the former director of the university's Feminist Studies department. Femminism and War 2008 http://www.scribd.com/doc/50189098/21732-feminism-and-war-confronting)</span>



<span style="font-size: 16px;">White supremacy fosters war out of a desire to control and dominate populations. Investment in infrastructure necessarily confronts the white-supremacist desire for control by valuing life instead of aggression and control over life. Davis continues…</span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Davis 08</span>****<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Angela Davis Femminism and War 2008 http://www.scribd.com/doc/50189098/21732-feminism-and-war-confronting) </span>**



**White supremacy dehumanizes life in a way that makes genocide and extinction inevitable.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Berube, 97</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[David M., Professor of Communication Studies and Associate Director of NanoScience and Technology Studies at University of South Carolina, “NANOTECHNOLOGICAL PROLONGEVITY: The Down Side,” http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">This card has been gender modified.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">08</span>
**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Contention 2: Solvency</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Guam’s infrastructure is not ready; the plan is key to get troops out of Okinawa. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Brown 2011</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Adam Brown February 25, 2011 http://guambuildupnews.com/Buildup-News-Politics/Guams-Aging-Infrastructure-Needs-Unprecedented-Growing-Spurt-for-Buildup.html)</span>



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Funding allows for growth in the community </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">PIR 12 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Pacific Islands Report, 5/28/12, “U.S. Secretary Of Transportation Visits Guam Port”,http://pidp.org/pireport/2012/May/05-28-04.htm // Veevz )</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The move to Guam will not replicate this cultural masculinity. Guam would be a new step in reducing colonial domination</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">SECNAVY ’11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (“Under SECNAV Releases Statement Following Visit To Guam,” Story Number: NNS110120-15, 1/20/2011, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;"><span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.navy.mil/submit/display.asp?story_id=58119]]</span>, YX</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>


**<span style="font-size: 48px;">UT- 1AC </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 18px;">We begin with the future:</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 18px;">The year is 1939 and the future of American transportation infrastructure is being born, Professor Helen Burgess paints the picture:</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 18px;">Topic Research Uncovers hidden meaning within a resolution, the topic of transportation infrastructure is a question of structure and placement of ¶ power, we believe the debate community should ¶ change to remove elitism from the community and reject the classical ¶ homogenization of policy debate practice.¶ Professor of Philosophy Levi Bryant explains…</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bryant 12 (Levi R. prof of philosophy, Collin College University of Dundee “Paths” http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/05/12/paths/#more-6132)</span>


**<span style="font-size: 18px;">The ballot resembles Big Business and its use of transportation policy to tells us who we are and what we desire. This has led to repressed dispositions within the debate space which turns the activity into an artificial advocacy that has no substance. We believe to counter this cancer with an investment in transportation infrastructure at the level of cultural desire, invest your ballot in a cultural desire to change transportation infrastructure as it exist within the world and within debate.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Burgess 4 (Helen J, Assistant Professor of English in the Communication and Technology track at University of Maryland, Baltimore County, “Futurama, Autogeddon: Imagining the Superhighway from Bel Geddes to Ballard” Rhizomes Issue 8 (Spring 2004) JTB)</span>




**<span style="font-size: 18px;">Historically the ballot machine simultaneously enslaves and subjects debaters towards a certain literature bases that ignore the ways in which we orient and view the world for example: we investigate the way that the highway machine tells us what we want before we recognize it, whether that be a commuter and driver or the entire process of socio-juridical rights of passage at the age of 16 which becomes part of the American dream before we even realize how agonizing it is to be a commuter.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kuswa 4 (Kevin, PhD Communications, California State University, Fresno Department of Communication “Machinic Rhetoric, Highways and Interpellating Motions” Rhizomes Issue 8 (Spring 2004) JTB)</span>



**<span style="font-size: 18px;">Our Fascination with death and body bags leads us to believe everyone should think as we do, this elitism is dangerous it then gets translated into politics where it orients our beliefs into US/Them Dichotomies. Examples in our community include Debate vs Performance Debate, The social exclusion of minorities and queer from judging pools, preference sheets. All of these create us/them mentalities that only act to destroy the essence of communication.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Seem 72 – Anti Oedipus, Introduction - Mark Seem. p xv-xvii. Bockmon ***This card has been gender modified***</span>




**<span style="font-size: 18px;">The only way to resist our neurosis-induced fascism in both the debate space and our interaction with transportation infrastructure is to psychotically reorient and change the way the State, paranoia, and other agencies of power try to manifest enlightenment subjectivity.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Seem 72 – Anti Oedipus, Introduction - Mark Seem. p xx-xxii. Bockmon ***Gendered language not endoresed***</span>




**<span style="font-size: 18px;">Thus our reorientation is to adopt Machine oriented ontology. We are a complete departure from the subject/object dichotomy that entraps us into neurosis and suffering at the hands of the State. This is flat ontology understands all objects as machines that exist thru their functioning and not thru their subjective interpretation. This is a complete refusal from debate norm on the desirability of certain ways of viewing and acting on the world</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bryant 12 (Levi, professor of Philosophy at Collins College, “Machine-Oriented Ontology: Towards a Pan-Mechanism”</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2012/06/21/machine-oriented-ontology-towards-a-pan-mechanism/)</span>




**<span style="font-size: 18px;">Our imagine Futurism is a potential for actualization, your ballot has the potential to change the narrative of a future round. The risk of the loss motivates active participation from the opponent. This was seen during the Wake Forest Final round this year in which Northwestern completely changed their entire aff into a massive warming has huge harmful effects, and then talked about how underprivileged communities are more effected. This is the discourse the ballot creates. Perhaps we can shed the enlightenment humanist subject, and respect everyone as a debater machine and act with them equally, Maybe we can remove the old Boys club of debate and create a truly equal community.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Burgess 4 (Helen J, Assistant Professor of English in the Communication and Technology track at University of Maryland, Baltimore County, “Futurama, Autogeddon: Imagining the Superhighway from Bel Geddes to Ballard” Rhizomes Issue 8 (Spring 2004) JTB)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 48px;">Colleyville- IAC</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Plan Text</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a national network of high-speed passenger rail systems in the United States.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Contention One: Knowledge Economy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The recession is far from over-unemployment levels and economic activity remain completely inadequate─ </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stiglitz ‘10 (Joseph, New Perspectives Quarterly, “Time for a Second Stimulus”, pg. 61, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-5842.2010.01164.x/pdf]]</span>, Stiglitz is an economist and a professor at Columbia University. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for economics in 2001. He was chief economist of the World Bank and chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.)</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Major public investments in infrastructure are the key internal link to recovery─ targeted projects yield private investment and increased levels of economic activity. The US won’t be able to sustain debt without these initiatives. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">STIGLITZ 12 University Professor at Columbia University, and a Nobel laureate in Economics</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Only networks of megaregions sustain the transition to a knowledge economy─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Florida ‘10. Richard Florida is the director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Management. “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery.” The New Republic 8-12-10. [http://www.tnr.com/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future?page=0,0]</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">]</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">High-speed rail networks are critical to development of these megaregions-This significantly contributes to economic growth─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Florida ‘10. Richard Florida is the director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Management. “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery.” The New Republic 8-12-10. [http://www.tnr.com/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future?page=0,0]</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">High speed rail represents the ideal infrastructure project-investment is key to long-term economic recovery─We have 6 internal links. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Todorvich et al. ‘11Petra Todorovich, Director of America 2050, a national urban planning initiative to develop an infrastructure and growth strategy for the United States Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane “High-Speed Rail: International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers.” [https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf]</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Action now is critical-Rising population levels makes current transportation infrastructure no longer sustainable. The plan is key to maintain US economic leadership─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Alexander ‘9. Christopher Alexander, December 9th, 2009, written for PennDesign, the University Of Pennsylvania School Of Design, “Planning for High-speed Rail in the United States,” chp.4, [<span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.design.upenn.edu/hsr2011/planningforhsr.pdf]]</span>]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">No other project will generate enough growth in the long-term. Failure to invest ensures fast collapse of US competitiveness─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Natale ‘10. Patrick J. Natale, December 14th, 2010, executive director, American Society of Civil Engineers, “HSR: We can’t afford to wait,” <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2010/12/highspeed-rail-political-footb.php#1820909|http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2010/12/highspeed-rail-political-footb.php#1820909]]</span></span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Collapse causes lash-out. The U.S. will go down fighting─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Goldstein ‘7 (Avery, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Contention: 2 Keynes</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Focus on fiscal and monetary policies have gotten the U.S. nowhere towards recovery-The government must foster the conditions necessary for a thriving knowledge economy─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Florida ‘10. Richard Florida is the director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Management. “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery.” The New Republic 8-12-10. [http://www.tnr.com/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future?page=0,0]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The world economy faces devastation without intervention from the government.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stiglitz ’08 (Joseph, Time Magazine, “How to Get Out of the Financial Crisis”, pg. 1, http://flash.lakeheadu.ca/~kyu/E5118/Crisis1.pdf, Stiglitz is an economist and a professor at Columbia University. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for economics in 2001. He was chief economist of the World Bank and chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.)</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deficit spending within the transportation sector is crucial to create the federal reserves needed to sustain economic growth and prevent economic collapse in the long term.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stliglitz and Weisman 10(Joseph E., Professor at Columbia University; Author, "Freefall: America, Free Markets, and the Sinking of the World Economy", Steven R., Editorial Director and Public Policy Fellow, Peter G. Peterson Institute For International Economics, “Global Economic Trends: A Conversation with Joseph E. Stiglitz”, Thursday, January 21, 2010, New York, Council on Foreign Relations, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/global-economic-trends-conversation-joseph-e-stiglitz/p21301]]</span> |SK)</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">investments like the high-speed rail are the reason for competing nations’ success; if the US were to follow suit, then the Chinese threats to U.S. primacy would be gone.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stiglitz ’10 (Joseph, New Perspectives Quarterly, “Time for a Second Stimulus”, pg. 63, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-5842.2010.01164.x/pdf]]</span>, Stiglitz is an economist and a professor at Columbia University. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for economics in 2001. He was chief economist of the World Bank and chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.)</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">credible US economic leadership is key to maintaining capitalism, interdependence, and every level of global cooperation-The alternative is competitive mercantilism and a complete collapse of multilateralism─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Posen ‘9. Adam-Deputy Director & Senior Fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “Economic Leadership, Beyond the Crisis.” Available Online @</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;"><http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf></span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The impact is great power war, terrorism, and a collapse of the global economy─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Panzner ‘8,faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138, googlebooks)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Contention 3: oil</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Demand for oil will double over the next 20 years and current sources remain vulnerable to shocks–The plan is the only comprehensive solution. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Erin Kent Magee, March 17th, 2012, 2012 presidential candidate, previous educational services officer @ the DoD, previous royal ambassador to Japan, HRP, Western Australia “High Speed Rail: The Time is Now,” <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://tbqy.com/?p=2236]]</span></span>




**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The plan solves oil dependence quickly-Alternative energies won’t come fast enough and conflicts are inevitable if action isn’t taken in the short-term─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Perl ‘11. Dr. Anthony Perl is Professor of Urban Studies and Political Science at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, where he directs the Urban Studies Program. His latest book, co-authored with Richard Gilbert, is "Transport Revolutions: Moving People and Freight Without Oil." November 19, 2011 “How green is high-speed rail?” [http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/18/world/how-green-is-hsr/index.html]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Continued dependence and oil shocks will result in great power conflicts and rapid warming. This independently makes US-Sino war inevitable─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">King 8 [Neil King, Jr. “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns” CNAS Energy Security Visionaries Series. July 2008. http://www.aspousa.org/aspousa4/proceedings/_CNAS_King_Peak_Oil_WorkingPaper.pdf]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">extinction─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Strait Times, June 25, 2000, p. Lexis</span>
**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Contention 4: Solvency</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Committed federal funding is key to jumpstart high-speed rail projects-it injects confidence into the market for its developement─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Todorvich et al. ‘11Petra Todorovich, Director of America 2050, a national urban planning initiative to develop an infrastructure and growth strategy for the United States Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane “High-Speed Rail: International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers.” [https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">No other form of funding solves-Federal involvement is critical for coordination and sustaining projects─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sweet ‘9.Matthias N. Sweet, Ph.D. candidate at the University of Pennsylvania City and Regional Planning “Planning for High-speed Rail in the United States.” Chapter 13: Financing High-speed Rail [<span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.design.upenn.edu/hsr2011/planningforhsr.pdf]]</span>]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">High-speed rail is competitive, efficient, and feasible in the short term. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kobzantsev ‘9. Zlata Kobzantsev, University of Pennsylvania, Cornell University December 9th, 2009, written for PennDesign, the University Of Pennsylvania School Of Design, “Planning for High-speed Rail in the United States,” Chapter 1: Metropolitan Congestion as a Factor for Successful Highspeed Rail.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 26.6667px;">Advantage 5 - Warming</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Air and highway transportation use has completely outpaced capacity-High-Speed rail is the only alternative capable of solving─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kobzantsev ‘9. Zlata Kobzantsev. December 9th, 2009, written for PennDesign, the University Of Pennsylvania School Of Design, “Planning for High-speed Rail in the United States,” Chapter 1: Metropolitan Congestion as a Factor for Successful Highspeed Rail.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Current efforts won’t come close to alleviating this-high speed rail can decrease congestion while simultaneously reducing emissions and oil dependence─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rodda ‘9. Bryan Rodda December 9th, 2009, written for PennDesign, the University Of Pennsylvania School Of Design, “Planning for High-speed Rail in the United States,” Executive Summary</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Emissions from congestion and transportation represent some of the largest contributions to warming-</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Barth ‘9. Matthew is Professor of Electrical Engineering and Director of the Center for Environmental Research and Technology at the University of California, Riverside (barth@ee.ucr.edu) and Kanok Boriboonsomsin is a member of the research faculty at UCR’s Center for Environmental Research and Technology “Traffic Congestion and Greenhouse Gases.” Fall 2009. [http://www.uctc.net/access/35/access35_Traffic_Congestion_and_Grenhouse_Gases.shtml]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">high speed rail can reduce CO2 emissions by 6 billion pounds per year─ We have the only comprehensive data─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">CCAP ‘6. Center for Clean Air Policy & Center for Neighborhood Technology. CCAP has over</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">20 years of experience addressing climate change, air emissions, and energy policy. CNT serves as the umbrella for a number of projects and affiliate organization. They work in the areas of energy, transportation, materials conservation and housing preservation “High Speed Rail and Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the U.S.” January 2006 [http://www.cnt.org/repository/HighSpeedRailEmissions.pdf]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Warming causes extinction─</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brown, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., 2008</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">[Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]</span>

=== === 
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
= = 

==== ====