[[toc]]
=Negative= 
==**China fund**== 
**Counterplan Text: China should fund <insert plan here>**

**The counterplan solves 100% of the case – it’s popular in both the U.S. and China**
Stephen **Richter** is the President of the Globalist Research Center, JD University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow, 3-16-2011 [“Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]]</span>]
Many Americans might be surprised to hear that this state of affairs leaves China's top leaders concerned that the United States is falling too far behind, simply because its political system has such a hard time bringing about rational, long-term policy decisions. These leaders know that the fates of the United States and China are joined at the hip. With over $1 trillion in U.S. Treasury holdings, the Chinese government has a vested interest in the future performance of the United States. A country eating its seed corn by not investing enough in public infrastructure and instead relying on the inherent "wisdom" of private investors is a cause for concern. At the same time, the Chinese feel that they cannot in good conscience invest in more Treasury paper. What’s the point, they ask, in funding a defense budget the United States could not otherwise afford — or bankrolling cash-flow deficits in the Social Security accounts of the baby boom generation? Given all that, China's leaders must be pondering a truly revolutionary thought: How about using their dollar-denominated funds to capitalize an Infrastructure Bank for the United States (IBUS), as well as underwriting many of its upcoming investment projects? At first glance, such a step would seem a heretical move for China's still-communist leaders. However, today’s alliances are no longer so much a matter of ideology, but of cash-flow recycling and balance sheet optimization. Vilifying a proper government planning role in this process and arguing that the private sector knows best is a stance that is anything but conservative. While the investment needs within China remain big, the country’s leaders do have a plan in place to fund them for decades. Whatever happens at home, they also have to make rational use of all the U.S. dollars they earn from exports to the United States. What nobler, more rational and long-term-oriented purpose than to fund the IBUS? China, after all, is a rapidly aging nation, with lots of financing needs to support its large population in old age. How better to meet those needs than by investing in a demographically young nation now (the United States) — and then waiting for the returns on that investment to flow back to China over time? Not even the Chinese military could be opposed to this plan. While it might superficially be seen as a self-defeating, if not traitorous, act to strengthen one's primary opponent, those generals are business savvy these days. While the generals in China, as well as the leaders of the Chinese Community Party, may well be ready to underwrite the IBUS, U.S. politicians can be counted upon to go apoplectic if such a proposal were ever to come to pass. Still, it might turn out that China's plan for a truly stunning foreign mission to rebuild U.S. infrastructure will come to pass one way or another. In the end, it will be an amazing moment in the annals of global capitalism when China — presumably the developing country, but really an old, mature power thinking about the global system and its own needs in a very long-term manner — will come to the aid of that upstart, the United States. A country eating its seed corn by not investing enough in public infrastructure and instead relying on the inherent "wisdom" of private investors is a cause for concern. While being presumed to be a mature industrial democracy, the United States really is a youngish country — and one that still has to contend with its errant ways. But “Uncle Wen,” his colleagues and successors have a clear and comforting message for Washington and the entire United States: “Don't worry, America. From our own history, we know about losing one's path and how painful it can be for a country and its entire population — and also the world. “We Chinese,” Premier Wen Jiabao says when he is daydreaming, “are here to help. Let's hope you Americans are enlightened enough to accept our assistance. “Otherwise, you Americans will be in for a serious detour, one that will not only shortchange the future prospects of many Americans, but of the entire world economy. Let's hope that outcome can be avoided.”

==States== 
**Counterplan Text: The 50 state governments and all relevant territories should <insert plan text> and amend their constitutions to expand Balanced Budget horizons from one to five years.**
States investment in transportation infrastructure-avoids bureaucratic nightmares
Chris **Edwards**. The Cato Institute. 2010 ["Proposed Spending Cuts." Department of Transportation. http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/transportation/spending-cuts]
Most Department of Transportation activities are properly the responsibility of state and local governments and the private sector. There are few advantages in funding infrastructure such as highways and airports from Washington, but there are many disadvantages. Federal involvement results in political misallocation of resources, bureaucratic mismanagement, and costly one-size-fits-all regulations imposed on the states. The Federal Highway Administration should be eliminated. Taxpayers and highway users would be better off if federal highway spending and gasoline taxes were ended. State governments could more efficiently plan their highway systems without federal intervention. The states should look to the private sector for help in funding and operating highways, and they ought to move forward with innovations such as expressways with electronic tolling. The Federal Transit Administration should be eliminated. Federal transit subsidies have caused local governments to make inefficient transportation choices. Federal aid favors rail systems, which are more expensive and less flexible than bus systems. The removal of federal subsidies and related regulations would spur local governments to discover more cost-effective transportation solutions, such as opening transit markets to private operators. Air traffic control should be removed from the federal budget, and the ATC system should be set up as a stand-alone and self-funded agency or private company. Many nations have moved towards such a commercialized ATC structure, and the results have been very positive with regard to efficiency and safety. Canada's reform in the 1990s to create a private nonprofit ATC corporation is a good model for the United States to follow. U.S. ATC is currently overseen by the Federal Aviation Administration, which has serious funding problems and a poor record on implementing new technologies. Moving to a Canadian-style ATC system would help solve these problems and allow our aviation infrastructure to meet rising aviation demand. Amtrak has provided second-rate rail service for decades, while consuming almost $40 billion in federal subsidies. It has a poor on-time record, and its infrastructure is in bad shape. As a government agency, it is hamstrung in its decisionmaking regarding routes, workforce polices, capital investment, and other aspects of business. Amtrak should be privatized to give it the management flexibility it needs to operate in a more efficient and competitive manner. The table shows that federal taxpayers would save about $85 billion annually by closing down the agencies and programs listed. The department would retain its current activities regarding highway safety, aviation safety, and some other regulatory functions. Those functions could be reformed as well, but the most important thing is to end federal subsidies for transportation activities that would be better handled by the states and private sector. America should take heed of the market-based reforms being implemented abroad, and pursue similar solutions to its transportation challenges.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]