[[toc]]
= = 
If you want any cites, email me at venkmupp@yahoo.com.
=UNT 2013= 
==Affirmative - Cyberterror== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">**Framework**</span>=== 
I affirm and value Morality as "ought to" implies a moral obligation.
AND
with national security. The standard is Preventing Mass Death for 2 reasons:

First is pragmatism. The function of moral theorizing is to resolve problems in practices that exist and to make practices more pragmatic. Lekan<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> in ~’03:
Since pragmatists take seriously the primacy of practice, they must be careful to give
AND
and, ideally, ought to function to help make practices more intelligent.

And, deliberation from a pragmatic standpoint commits us to the authority of consequences over means-based justification for action. Frega<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span> in ~’12:
A third theoretical module needs to be introduced in order to complete this pragmatic strategy
AND
.),the reproductive sphere, or the freedom of religious practice and expression.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Second<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, the actor in the resolution is the United States federal government as only it has the authority to control decisions regarding national security. Only maximizing utility is consistent with rational government action. </span>Woller<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span> Explains<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">:</span></span></span>
Moreover, virtually all public policies entail some redistribution of economic or political resources,
AND
offs implied by their policies are somehow to the overall advantage of society.


===First is Status Quo=== 
Domestic cyberterrorism is a huge threat in the status quo – a shift to the negative world eliminates checks on terrorists. Bray<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span> on 5/16:
America~’s cyber security forces are having trouble keeping pace with the increasing frequency and sophistication
AND
prevent electronic attacks that could disrupt the nation~’s banks, utilities and telecommunications networks

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And, the majority of captured terrorists are homegrown US citizens – the threat exists now. </span>Lakes<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span> in ~’13
In 1997, a Sudanese man named Jamal Ahmed al-Fadl became the first
AND
American groups are being targeted by al Qaeda for recruitment," he said.¶



===Second is the Impact=== 

A is Nuclear Terrorism
Our nuclear command and control centers are easy access points for cyberterrorists; an attack is inevitable. Fritz<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span> in ~’09:
Cyber terrorists could cause incorrect information to be transmitted, received, or¶ displayed
AND
created by¶ more experienced hackers can be readily found on the internet.

And, a terrorist attack, especially a nuclear one, is highly likely to trigger an all-out nuclear war. Ayson<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]</span> in ~’10:
But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a
AND
consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.

Finally, nuclear war almost guarantees human extinction. Elrich<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]</span> et al in ~’83:
The prediction* of climatic changes are quite robust (,4,5) so
AND
event* the possibility of the extinction of homo sapiens cannot be excluded.

B is Increased Terrorism
The digital age has revolutionized terrorism – the internet is the foundation of a successful extremist organization. Theohary<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]</span> and Rollins in ~’11:
The Internet is used as a prime recruiting tool for insurgents.¶ Extremists use chat
AND
offensive cyber capability in addition to serving as a means of procuring funds..

And, terrorism is a huge and potentially disastrous threat in the status quo; affirming checks it back. Wilkinson<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]</span> and Hartwig in ~’10:
Despite the differing viewpoints, the overall consensus appears to be that terrorism risk is
AND
from disaffected communities in a re-emergence of class-based politics.

C is the Global Information Grid

The threat to our GIG from domestic organization is real – cyberspace equalizes the playing field. USATDC<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn11|[11]]]</span> in ~’06:
Just as the United States has capitalized on the use of computer technology, our
AND
groups have well educated people and modern computer equipment to compete in cyberspace.

The global information structure is the key to US national defense systems. USATDC 2:
To highlight the importance of Cyber technology to the U.S. military,
AND
Router NETwork (NIPRNET), and the Secret IP Router NETwork (SIPRNET).


===Advocacy Text=== 
I advocate for the USFG to continue the current NSA surveillance programs, including monitoring the phone records of US citizens and all internet traffic through US-based servers in order the stop terrorism^^<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[1]</span>^^. I reserve the right to clarify.
Yes, this is the status quo :)

===Third is Solvency=== 
The violation of digital privacy rights is necessary to curb the threat of terrorism – we catch terrorists before they attack. Knop<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn12|[12]]]</span> in ~’08:
First, terrorist websites need to be monitored to learn about their mindsets, motives
AND
robustness of a network. Integrated Early Warning Systems are an additional requirement.

Digital surveillance is necessary for countering cyberterror; the veil of anonymity must be overridden. Dogrul<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn13|[13]]]</span> et. al in ~’11:
Collecting intelligence is the starting point and the key part of building an ¶ international
AND
worms and by destroying or changing the contents of the website ~~[1~~].¶

And, the plan is empirically verified – the much-criticized NSA programs have resulted in stopping over 50 terrorist plots. Dozier<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn14|[14]]]</span> in ~’13:
The director of the National Security Agency insisted on Tuesday that the government~’s sweeping surveillance
AND
," Alexander told the committee in a rare, open Capitol Hill hearing.

===Underview: Extinction comes first.=== 

# 1. Magnitude- Extinction precludes the possibility of all future generations from existing, and so it always outweighs in terms of the infinite lives lost…….
# 2. Extinction is a side constraint on any ethical theory as no moral system would necessarily will extinction; it precludes the existence of further moral deliberations and violates immeasurable amounts of rights……..
# 3. Reversibility- While the effects of some impacts can be reversed once occurred, extinction makes it so no further efforts can be taken to counteract the loss of human life of philosophical thought…..
Sometime add this:
Bostrom in '11
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Nick Bostrom is a Professory of Philosophy and Director of the Future of Humanity Institute and the Pogramme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, “The Concept of Existential Risk” Future of Humanity Institute, 2011, Draft [[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.pdf]]</span>
Our present understanding of axiology
AND
must prevent any existential catastrophe.


----
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|**[1]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Todd Lekan, Professor of Philosophy at Muskingum University, “Making Morality: Pragmatist Reconstruction in Ethical Theory”, Vanderbilt University Press, 2003 </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|**[2]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Roberto Frega, School of Advanced Studies in Social Sciences and Senior Researcher at the Centre for the Study of Social Movements - Institut Marcel Mauss, “Equal Accessibility to All: Habermas, Pragmatism, and the Place of Religious Beliefs in a Post-Secular Society”, Roberto Frega Constellations Volume 19, Number 2, 2012</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|**[3]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Gary Woller, BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">[[home#_ftnref4|****[4]****]]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Tom Bray, Senior Director of Press Enterprise News, “CYBERTERROR: Attacks on U.S. computers grow more frequent, effective”, PE News, 5/16/13</span>**</span></span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|**[5]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Eli Lakes in ‘13 [senior national-security correspondent for Newsweek and The Daily Beast. He previously covered national security and intelligence for The Washington Times], “Report: Majority of Convicted Terrorists in U.S. Are American Citizens”, US News: The Daily Beast, Feb 26, BE</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|**[6]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jason Fritz, BS (St. Cloud), MIR (Bond), “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control”, 2009, commisiond by the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament (ICNND) - See more at: http://www.thenewnewinternet.com/2009/07/29/nation-nuclear-control-centers-vulnerable-to-cyber-terrorism-report/#sthash.LqOzNTLh.dpuf</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref7|**[7]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref8|**[8]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Paul R. Ehrlich, John Harte, Mark A. Harwell, Peter H. Raven, Carl Sagan, GeorgeM. Woodwell, Joseph Berry, Edward S. Ayensu, Anne H. Ehrlich, Thomas Eisner, Stephen J.Gould, Herbert D. Grover, Rafael Herrera, Robert M. May, Ernst Mayr, Christopher P.McKay, Harold A. Mooney, Norman Myers, David Pimentel, John M. Tea “Long-Term Biological Consequences of Nuclear War” Science, New Series, Vol. 222, No. 4630 (Dec. 23, 1983), pp. 1293-1300</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref9|**[9]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Catherine A. Theohary, Analyst in National Security Policy and Information Operations, and John Rollins, Specialist in Terrorism and National Security, “Terrorist Use of the Internet: Information Operations in Cyberspace”, Congressional Research Service, 2011</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref10|**[10]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Claire Wilkinson, [Vice President – Global Issues], Robert P. Hartwig, [Ph.D., CPCU], “TERRORISM RISK: A REEMERGENT THREAT”, Insurance Information Institute, 2010</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref11|**[11]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> US Army Training and Doctrine Command, written by the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence and Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence – Threats, “Critical Infrastructure – Threats and Terrorism”, 2006</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref12|**[12]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Katharina von Knop, Fellow at the University of the Armed Forces in Munich, “Institutionalization of a web-focused, multinational counter-terrorism campaign – Building a collective open source intelligent system, A discussion paper,” Responses to Cyber Terrorism, Centre of Excellence Defence Against Terrorism, Ankara, Turkey (Ed.) IOS Press, 2008, pp.8-23.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref13|**[13]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Murat Dogrul, student officer at the Turkish Air War College, Adil Aslan, Lieutenant Colonel and instructor at Turkish Air War College, Eyyup Celik, “Developing an International Cooperation on Cyber Defense and Deterrence against Cyber Terrorism”, 2011, 3rd International Conference on Cyber Conflict C. Czosseck, E. Tyugu, T. Wingfield (Eds.), Tallinn, Estonia, 2011 © CCD COE Publications</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref14|**[14]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kimberley Dozier, Reporter for the AP, “NSA: Surveillance Programs Foiled Some 50 Terrorist Plots Worldwide”, Huffington Post, 6/18/13</span>
== == 
==**<span style="font-size: 18px;">Negative - State Checks</span>**== 
===Framework=== 
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">I negate and value Just Governance. All governments have a direct obligation to further the interests of its citizens as:</span>
# 1. At the point of the creation of the state, the citizens cede their rights to absolute freedom in a state of nature in exchange for a sovereign that holds the interests of its citizens above its self-interest…..analytic….

And, the only way to maintain that a government protects its citizens~’ interests is through a system of constitutional checks on power. Mueller<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> in ~’96:

The specter has been raised that a government once created will turn upon its creators
AND
who will someday have the authority to enforce it, abide by it.

In addition, this framework uniquely applies to the United States:
# 1. The system of checks and balances asserted in the USA is an independent reason to prefer the NC framework…..specific to US, etc…

Thus, the standard is Establishing Functional Checks on State Power, accomplished by furthering the interests of citizens. Further prefer this standard as allowing the government unrestricted control leads to oppressive, controlling practices on the citizens with no chance of stopping…..

===Contention=== 
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">I contend that overriding the digital privacy of citizens in the name of national security allows the government unchecked power.</span>

First, government surveillance programs spy on citizens without consent; allows unchecked state power. Hussain<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span> in ~’13:
In 2010, the Washington Post~’s landmark report "[[Top Secret America-http://projects.washingtonpost.com/top-secret-america/]]" - an
AND
government with a level of information about its citizens unprecedented in human history.

By advancing their own conception of "national security", the state denies avenue for democratic discussion and forecloses the possibility of reform – negating solves this back by giving citizens and avenue to protest and demand change, the internet.

Second, surveillance leads to the ~’chilling effect~’ and limits the expression of civil liberties. Richards<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span> in 12:
At the level of theory, I will explain when surveillance is particularly dangerous,
AND
prosecuted or ¶ blackmailed for wrongdoing unrelated to the purpose of the surveillance.

This is definitionally unchecked state power – the influence of the state limits the individual’s authority to criticize the state and instills a paralyzing fear in the population. Richards proves this is the root cause of coercion from the state.

Finally, the "take first, check later" mentality of the government violates the fundamental right to probable cause that all US citizens have. By forgoing this check, the aff allows the government the ability to label anything as a threat to national security without justification and violate rights. Smith<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span> in ~’11:
Law enforcement efforts to obtain cell phone location data and Internet records have prompted privacy
AND
should be the same standard that the desk calendar was 10 years ago."

And, I always outweigh the aff on probability – blanket surveillance in the aff world violates the rights of everybody before knowing whether there is a threat of terrorism in the first place, but the aff only gets a low probability of catching a terrorist.

----
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|**[1]**]]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1]</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dennis Mueller, Professor of Economics (Emeritus) at the University of Vienna, “CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY”, Oxford University Press. New York, NY. 1996.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|**[2]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Murtaza Hussain, Toronto-based writer and analyst focused on issues related to Middle Eastern politics, “An increasingly unchecked surveillance state”, May 20, 2013, Al Jazeera News. VM.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|**[3]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Neil M. Richards, Professor of Law, Washington University School of Law, “The Dangers of Surveillance”, Harvard Law Review, 2012. VM.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|**[4]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Joshua Emerson Smith, contributing reporter for California Watch, conncentrated on local Bay Area issues, publishing writing and photography in the Bay Guardian and the East Bay Express, “California Police Use Of Digital Surveillance Tracking 'Shrouded In Secrecy,' ACLU Says”, California Watch, 10/9/11 </span>


=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">**Negative**</span>== 
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
[[media type="custom" key="23514840"]]