[[toc]]
aff: myukguk@gmail.com
neg: adityamukund@gmail.com

1AC and 1NC cites will be posted once read, 2AC/2NC stuff will be posted upon request.
If cites aren't up, check Bellarmine SV (Debnil Sur & Madhu Vijay), since they'll probably have it.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If we don't get cites to you, email [[mailto:crazedstryker@gmail.com|crazedstryker@gmail.com]] (repeatedly) for anything.</span>
=Affirmative= 
==Berkeley== 
===1AC Round 1=== 

====Plan==== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.**

====Infinity==== 
**Contention one is infinity**

**The plan~’s investment in transportation infrastructure facilitates travel, which is an encounter with unpredictable others in new locations**
**Ankor, Ph.D. in tourism, 9** – Ph.D. thesis for the Graduate School of the University of Technology in Sydney (Jo, BA in Cultural Tourism, December 2009, Pleasure and Dread: The Paradox of Travel, pp. 172-175, http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/handle/2100/1178/02Whole.pdf?sequence=2)

Section 3 Encountering Difference: The Offer in the Moment led to an account of
AND
other, I suggest, is integral to the travel and tourism experience.

**We have an infinite ethical obligation to the Other – we~’ll call this idea "infinity" – encountering the Other as irreducible difference and acknowledging responsibility produces one~’s own identity or subjectivity**
**Ankor 9** – Ph.D. thesis for the Graduate School of the University of Technology in Sydney (Jo, BA in Cultural Tourism, December 2009, Pleasure and Dread: The Paradox of Travel, pp. 132-134, http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/handle/2100/1178/02Whole.pdf?sequence=2)

4.5  LEVINAS~’ PHILOSOPHY OF THE ENCOUNTER¶ ~’The other is not
AND
to a response that does not condemn the other through assumptions of recognition.

**We must take responsibility**
**Ponzio, professor of philosophy, 6** – Full Professor of Philosophy of Language and General Linguistics at the University of Bari in Italy (Augusto, head of the Department of Linguistic Practices and Text Analysis at l~’Universita degli Studi di Bari, "The I questioned: Emmanuel Levinas and the critique of occidental reason," Subject Matters, Volume 3, Number 1, pp. 1-46, http://www.augustoponzio.com/files/SubjectMattersvol3issue1.pdf)

Original peace is the absolute precedence of the face of the other. The face
AND
all as in Martin Buber (see Levinas 1996: 17-39).

**This obligation has to be infinite and unconditional, not selfish**
**Hendley, professor of philosophy, 5** – Associate Professor of Philosophy at Birmingham-Southern College (Steven, 2005, "Autonomy and alterity: moral obligation in Sartre and Levinas," from Emmanuel Levinas Critical Assessments V2: Critical Assessments of Leading Philosophers (ed. Claire Elise Katz and Lara Trout), pp. 137-138, p. Google Books)

This last point bears on the conditions of the realization and maintenance of a just
AND
of those whose concerns have always yet to be adequately taken into account.

**Objective views of the political process reify hierarchies and oppression**
**Schram, professor of social research, 95** – Visiting Professor in Social Work and Social Research and the Director of the Center on Ethnicities, Communities, and Social Policy at Bryn Mawr College (Sanford F., November 1995, "Against Policy Analysis: Critical Reason and Poststructural Resistance," Policy Sciences, Volume 28, Number 4, p. JSTOR)

Forester~’s line of argumentation has much to commend it. Of particular value is his
AND
generic categories that do injustice to the particulars of any specific political struggle.

**This obligation is the best way to affirm life**
**Campbell, professor of politics, 99** – former Professor of International Politics at the
AND
J. Shapiro), pp. 32-34, p. QuestiaSchool)

Levinas~’s thought radically refigures our understanding of responsibility, subjectivity, and ethics, for
AND
qua alienus — foreigner and other — that man is not alienated."33

**Our ethic is a "first philosophy" that precedes and refutes rule systems like utilitarianism, which reduce the Other to a calculable entity – ethics should come from experience, not knowledge**
**Introna, professor of ethics, 3** – Professor of Organization, Technology, and Ethics at Lancaster University (Lucas, 2003, "Workplace Surveillance ~’is~’ Unethical and Unfair," Surveillance %26 Society, Volume 1, Number 2, pp. 210-216, http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/download/3354/3317)

For Levinas the ~’force~’, or rather the gravity, of ethics lies in
AND
). The force of the Other is fragile, not secure at all.

**Our framework interpretation is that we will defend the implementation of the plan in the context of the adoption of our ethic – ethical framing conditions all political practice – this recognition solves conflict**
**Dauphinee, professor of politics, 9** – Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at York University (Elizabeth, "Emmanuel Levinas," from Critical Theorists and International Relations, edited by Jenny Edkins (Professor of International Politics at Aberystwyth University) and Nick Vaughan-Williams (Lecturer in International Relations at the University of Exeter), pp. 241-242)

Writing about the war in Bosnia, David Campbell argues that Levinasian thought is ~’
AND
, at reconciliation and refugee return (Campbell 1998a: 219–40).

====Totality==== 
**Contention two is totality**

**The opposite of infinity is totality, the attempt to break down and understand everything – this leads to impersonal control and tyranny**
**Wild, professor of philosophy, 80** – Professor of Philosophy at Yale University (John, Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, professor and chair of philosophy at Northwestern University, 2/29/80, Introduction to Totality and Infinity: An Essay on Exteriority, book written by Emmanuel Levinas, Springer, pp. 15-19, http://m.friendfeed-media.com/48926eed43741a4e07a8241b7ee87bd55b666514)

Hegel and his followers have also seen the accidental biases and eccentricities that make the
AND
as right, and history itself is not the final judge of history.

**This logic of control and refusal of our finitude causes the destruction of the Earth through endless consumption and machination**
**Joronen, Ph.D. in geography, 11** – Ph.D. in Human Geography from the University of Turku (Mikko, Postdoctoral Researcher and head of the Development Studies programme in the Department of Geography and Geology at the University of Turku, Antipode, Vol. 43, No. 4, "Dwelling in the Sites of Finitude: Resisting the Violence of the Metaphysical Globe," Pg. 1127-1154)

In spite of the revolutionary sense of "power-free letting-be",
AND
and domination of nature, capable of calling the living earth a home.

**The root causes of war are power, heroism, threat construction, and fear – this taints their security logic – our ethic focuses these issues on the other and solves conflict**
**Molloy, Ph.D. in sociology, 99** – Ph.D. from the Department of Sociology and Equity Studies in Education at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education of the University of Toronto (Patricia, teaches in the Department of Communication Studies at Wilfrid Laurier University in Waterloo, 1999, "Desiring security/securing desire: (Re)re‐thinking alterity in security discourse," Cultural Values, Volume 3, Number 3, pp. 304-328, p. Taylor and Francis)

The Will to Kill: War as Desire¶ Desire, as Shapiro points out
AND
. For in the infinite waters of responsibility, there are no pirates.

**Utilitarianism can be twisted for any end**
**Simon, professor of philosophy, 9** – Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Texas at El Paso (Jules, Scientific Director of the Center for Science, Technology, Ethics, and Policy (CSTEP), 2009, "Chapter 9: Making Ethical Sense of Useless Suffering with Levinas," from The Double Binds of Ethics after the Holocaust: Salvaging the Fragments, ed. Jules Simon, p. 133, http://works.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1003%26context=julesimon)

Throughout the body of his work, Levinas contests the dominant modern Western paradigm.
AND
justifying the suffering of the few for the sake of the general good.

====Uncertainty==== 
**Contention three is uncertainty**

**Linear policy predictions are impossible**
**Sa, professor of policy, 4** – Associate Professor of Public Administration and Policy at Dong-U College in South Korea (Deug-Whan, received his DPA from the Korea University, 2004, "Chaos, Uncertainty, and Policy Choice: Utilizing the Adaptive Model," International Review of Public Administration, Volume 8, Number 2, pp. 119-128, http://www.kapa21.or.kr/data/data_download.php?did=1473)

In many cases, a small choice might lead to overwhelming results that generate either
AND
model provides decision-makers enough confidence to naturally accept uncertainty and chaos.

**This is an independent reason to vote aff – we must embrace transformation through chaos**
**Ankor 9** – Ph.D. thesis for the Graduate School of the University of Technology in Sydney (Jo, BA in Cultural Tourism, December 2009, Pleasure and Dread: The Paradox of Travel, pp. 139-141, http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/handle/2100/1178/02Whole.pdf?sequence=2)

When events without assignable causes happen that disrupt the order of established situations and when
AND
Levinas~’ encounter is synonymous with Badiou~’s point of rupture with respect to being.

**Death is an Other like any other Other – denying its alterity is unethical**
**Hofmeyr, professor of philosophy, 7** – Associate Professor and Senior Lecturer in the Department of Philosophy in the School of Basic Social Sciences at the University of Pretoria in South Africa (Benda, Ph.D. on the work of Foucault and Levinas from Radboud University Nijmegen in the Netherlands, Research Fellow and Guest Lecturer in the Department of Philosophical Anthropology in the Faculty of Philosophy, Theology and Religious Science of Radboud University Nijmegen, 2007, "Dying the Human Condition Re-reading Ivan Ilyich with Levinas," The International Journal of the Humanities, Volume 5, Issue 2, pp. 129-136, http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:ZJwem4DpYQgJ:scholar.google.com/%26hl=en%26as_sdt=0,5)

Suffering and death announce the absolute strangeness of a future ever future. Death is
AND
the relation with the Other (TA, 81-812/180).

**Great-power war is implausible**
**Deudney and Ikenberry, professors of politics, 9** – *Professor of Political Science
AND
, Number 1, pp. 77-93, p. ProQuest)

Fortunately, this new conventional wisdom about autocratic revival is as much an exaggeration of
AND
-first century point to the renewed value of international integration and cooperation.

**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction**
**Robock, professor of climatology, 10** – Professor II (Distinguished Professor) of
AND
, May/June, Wiley Online Library via University of Michigan Libraries)

While it is important to point out the consequences of nuclear winter, it is
AND
consequences of nuclear winter are extreme enough without these additional effects, however.

**Some degree of totality is inevitable – even if we use it in some instances, our ethic resists it overall which is what matters**
**Mayama, Ph.D. in theology, 10** – Ph.D. in theology from the McAnulty College and Graduate School of Liberal Arts (Alain, 2010, Emmanuel Levinas~’ Conceptual Affinities with Liberation Theology, pp. 31-33, p. Google Books)

The Saying and the Said¶ In order to appreciate the nature of responsibility of
AND
to be sure but a word. But the word is God."148

=Negative= 
==Strategies== 
===Berkeley=== 
====Round 2 vs El Cerrito MM (Icebreakers - Arctic, Science)==== 
1NC: T-Military, T-Vehicles, Psychoanalysis K, Alaska CP, Immigration Politics (econ impact), Case
2NC: Psychoanalysis
1NR: T-Military
2NR: T-Military

====Round 4 vs Clovis North GS (Inland Waterways - Econ, Free Trade)==== 
1NC: Apocalyptic Rhetoric K, Case
2NC: K
1NR: Case (with Terror Talk)
2NR: Apocalyptic Rhetoric K, Terror Talk K

====Round 6 vs Vashon SS (Ablenormativity)==== 
1NC: Framework, Language First K, Case (Aesthetics turn)
2NC: Language First K
1NR: Framework
2NR: Language First K

====Triples vs Coppell EM (Icebreakers - Great Lakes, Science)==== 
1NC: T-Military, Psychoanalysis K, Alaska CP, Immigration Politics (econ impact), Case
2NC: T-Military, Case
1NR: Politics
2NR: T-Military

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]