[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Valley</span>=== 

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative--1AC Valley-Contention 1: Right To The Streets]][[#Affirmative--1AC Valley-Contention 1: Right To The Streets]]Contention 1: Right To The Streets</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Life in the city is defined by density and by heterogeneity. Urban space, more so than any other mode of community, forces individuals to coexist continuously with others in dense and limited space. These aspects of urban life demand a unique approach to the production of urban space. We call this approach The Right To The City.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Don </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mitchelle</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Geography Prof @ Syracuse, The Right To The City, New York: Guilford Press, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, P.17-18</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“There are several...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;"> to the city</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">” (Lefebvre 1996 [1968], 174).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Right To The City recognizes that urban dwellers, not the state or the market, must have the right to appropriate and dictate the production of urban space in a way that addresses their daily needs and experience.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mark </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Purcell</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Geography Prof @ U of Washington, Citizenship and the Right to the Global City: Reimagining the Capitalist World Order, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, September 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span>__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">“Everyday life...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">political community.”</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Unfortunately, the vast majority of urban public space serves one purpose: the orderly and convenient use of an automobile.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ainsley </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Judge</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Twin Cities Bike Activist, Honor’s Thesis Submitted To The Macalester Geography Department, "Designing More Inclusive Streets: the Bicycle, Gender, and Infrastructure" , 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11, </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://digitalcommons.macalester.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=geography_honors]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">““Share the Road”...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;"> function democratically</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Mitchell 2003, 132).”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By cutting off each motorist from others and from the space, automobile dominated space becomes a space of isolation from others and from the city space. This destroys the social nature of most of the city’s public space, rendering it depoliticized.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">Matthew Wietse **__Talsma__**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Geography Prof @ U Toronto, Technologies of the City and Technologies of the Self: Lessons from the Road, 2010, Google It</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">“The</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> freedom... against traffic.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This transition away from the city as a sight of vibrant public social spaces forces urban dwellers to cede control over the production of urban space. Only public space can provide the forum for the formation and expression of demands on urban space that are essential for exercising Right to the City.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Simon </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Springe</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">r</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Geography Prog @ University of Victoria, Public Space as Emancipation: Meditations on Anarchism, Radical Democracy, Neoliberalism and Violence, Antipode Vol. 43 No. 2, 20</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">10</span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Such </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">spatialized notions...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">recurring performances ([[debatecoaches/home#b137|Valentine 1996]]).”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The result is the violent disenfranchisement of countless urban populations. Ceding control of the production of urban space to the external forces renders whole populations disposable.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Harvey</span>__</span>**__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12.6667px;">Professor of Anthropology at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Right To The City, New Left Review 53, September-October 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">08</span>__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">“Surplus absorption...its production</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus my partner and I, as an act of reclaiming right to the city, demand federal investment in bicycle infrastructure along urban roads.</span>
==== ==== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative--1AC Valley-Contention 2 is Solvency]][[#Affirmative--1AC Valley-Contention 2 is Solvency]]Contention 2 is Solvency</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cycling, as an alternative mode of transportation, repoliticizes the streets as a public space by allowing individuals to interact with both other’s and the urban environment.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zach </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Furness</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Prof of Cultural Studies @ Columbia College, One Less Car: Bicycling And The Politics’ Of Automobilist, Temple University Press, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">10</span>__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“At the most basic level,...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;"> my lovely bicycle”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This in turn makes the promotion of the bicycle a key step in the actualization of the Right To The City. By forcing the individual to actively engage with space during transportation, bicycling produces the type of urban subjects necessary to shift the production of urban space back to the urban dwellers themselves.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jen </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Petersen</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Ph.D. in Sociology from New York University, “Pedaling Hope,” Magazine for Urban Documentation, Opinion and Theory, no. 6, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">07</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, [[http://www.monumagazine.com/monu6/Petersen_final.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“This and other experiences...seeing and knowing.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Federal investment in in bike infrastructure drastically increases biking. Test programs prove.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PRI (Public Radio International), “New study shows federal investment in bike infrastructure paying off”, 22 May, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12,</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.pri.org/stories/business/the-bright-side-of-biking9962.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">“Across the..</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the future."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Infrastructure investment is the key starting point. Everything else follows.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ainsley </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Judge</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Twin Cities Bike Activist, Honor’s Thesis Submitted To The Macalester Geography Department, "Designing More Inclusive Streets: the Bicycle, Gender, and Infrastructure" , 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11, </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://digitalcommons.macalester.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=geography_honors]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“While the...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">of transportation</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. “</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We ask that you use your ballot to affirm our vision of urban space by joining us in our demand for federal investment in bicycle infrastructure. No one here controls the state and we think that’s fine, the production of urban space must begin with deliberation and politics among the people.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mark </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Purcell</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Geography Prof @ U of Washington, Excavating Lefebvre: The right to the city and its urban politics of the inhabitant, GeoJournal 58: 99–108, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">02</span>__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Lefebvre’s notion...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">citizen enfranchisement</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.”</span>
=Negative= 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Apocalyptic Rhetoric K</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic rhetoric forecloses on civil society based discussions of politics, economics, and the environment.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kurasawa ‘4,**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Moreover, I would ...global justice. “</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**This makes every impact more likely. A vibrant public sphere and cultures of foresight are key to solve future trends towards extinction**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**__Kurasawa ‘4__, (Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy)**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“In the first...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">via strong publics</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic representations ensures biopolitical control over populations – genocide is ongoing and extinction is inevitable**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Coviello 00**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Peter, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. "Apocalypse from Now On."]</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">“</span><span style="font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Apocalypse</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #00000a; font-size: 9pt;">,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;"> as I ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">__<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">done without</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**The Alternative is to vote negative to reject the rhetorical justifications of the 1AC.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**A focus on rhetoric is critical to crafting effective responses to crisis.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Doremus**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**00**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-The Rhetoric and Reality of Nature Protection: Toward a New Discourse , Professor of Law, University of California at Davis. J.D., 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11, * Washington & Lee Law Review Winter, 2000</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Rhetoric matters....</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">is interpreted.”</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative--Anthropocentrism K]]<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Anthropocentrism K</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Attempts to make humane society more equitable ignore the continuous violence against the natural world that that society is built off of. This not only outweighs the case, but makes their solvency impossible because they don’t challenge the anthropocentric roots of oppression.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tarik </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Prof @Sussex Law School, Species War: Law, Violence and Animals, Law, Culture and the Humanities 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**09**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">; 5: 353–369</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Grotius and Hobbes are...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">ordering of war.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Anthropocentrism underscores all other modes of oppression. Our critique needs to be the starting point for emancipatory politics**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tarik </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Prof @Sussex Law School, Species War: Law, Violence and Animals, Law, Culture and the Humanities 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**09**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">; 5: 353–369</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">This reflection need...non-human animals.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Impact is unending genocidal violence demened politically unqualified.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tarik </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi and**__ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Noam </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Ordan**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Prof @Sussex Law School and Prof at Bar Llan University, boarderlands, An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity, Volume 7 Number 3, 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**08**__</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">Within the picture...an eternal Treblinka” (Singer, 1968, p.750).”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**The alternative is to vote negative to reject the humanism if the 1AC. This is rejection enables an understanding of the species-being that solves the ethical exceptionalism of their survival politics.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Laura </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Hudson**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Cultural Studies PhD UC-Davis, The Political Animal: Species-Being and Bare life, Mediations: Journal of Marxist Literary Group 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**04**__</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“We are all….truly separable.”</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Complexity</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> K </span></span>=== 


**Prediction is impossible – linear analysis causes policy failure**
Deug Whan **Sa, 04** Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)RK

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In many cases, ... same causal relationships.</span>


**This is especially true for transportation infrastructure. The many variables such as human use and weather make linier predictions impossible**
Kara **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kockelman and</span>__** Christopher **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Frazier</span>__**, 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__** –A graduate student researcher at UT, An assistant professor of civil engineering at UT , “Chaos Theory and Transportation Systems: An Instructive Example”, 9/17/04, [[http://www.ce.utexas.edu/prof/kockelman/public_html/trb04chaos.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper was ... </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">nonlinear transportation systems</span>.


Planning based on ... about the future.


**The alternative to engage in policy analysis of complexity- key to have preferable political results in a chaotic world**
James **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rosenau, 97</span>__** – professor of international affairs at George Washington , “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs”, Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dodccrp.org/html4/bibliography/comch04.html]]</span>)

In short, there ... <span style="font-size: 11pt;">damn things simultaneously.</span>


=== === 

===<span style="font-family: sans-serif; text-align: start;">Anarcho-primitivism</span>=== 
**The constant urge for progress and technological development exploits and devalues life**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">John </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zerzan </span>American anarchist and primitivist philosopher and author 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span>“Globalization And Its Apologists: An Abolitionist Perspective”

<span class="DebateHighlighted">In the name ... </span>for virtual community.

**The mission of progressing through mastering technology keeps on perpetuating human misery and nihilism. Its postmodern discourse suppresses articulations of suffering, a facet of its accommodation to the inevitability of further, systematic desolation.**
John <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zerzan et al</span>. American anarchist and primitivist philosopher and author 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">99</span>. “Against Civilization Readings & Reflections”
What we have ... music is the same.

**Technological society inevitably self-destructs – continuations of so-called “progress” inevitably lead to extinction**
John <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zerzan</span>, “Why Primitivism?”, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2002</span>, [[http://www.johnzerzan.net/articles/why-primitivism.html]], JPW
It is no small ...<span class="DebateHighlighted"> its inevitable close.”26</span>
**The alternative is to issue a wholesale indictment of civilization and mass society by rejecting the progressive mindset of the aff. We need a mindset shift to transition from a dependent society to a self sufficient society. As technicized society moves inexorably forward, collapse becomes imminent – the only question is whether we actively resist and work to break down civilization or passively allow ourselves to be destroyed**
John <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zerzan</span>, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span>, “Seize The Day”, [[http://johnzerzan.net/articles/seize-the-day.html]], JPW
<span class="DebateUnderline">The rapidly mounting ...</span> spell was broken.

===Cost Control CP=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cost threshold needs to be established BEFORE implementation. Prior Key, and established as successful in similar programs</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Puentes 08 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Robert, Senior Fellow Brookings Institute, “A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking American Transportation For The 21st Century,”</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2008/6/transportation%20puentes/06_transportation_puentes_report.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">)</span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lost in the ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> under similar accountability.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Absent CP – Cost overruns and waste is inevitable</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">De Rugy and Mitchell 11 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Veronique de Rugy, Senior Research Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, former resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, policy analyst at the Cato Institute, and research fellow at the Atlas Economic Research Foundation, holds an M.A. in Economics from the University of Paris IX-Dauphine and a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Paris Pantheon-Sorbonne, and Matthew Mitchell, Senior Research Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, holds an M.A. and Ph.D. in Economics from George Mason University, 2011 “Would More Infrastructure Spending Stimulate the Economy?,” Mercatus Center Working Paper Number 11-36, September, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, p. 6)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Four years into ... the long term.</span>





**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This Collapses competitiveness</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Puentes 08 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Robert, Senior Fellow Brookings Institute, “A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking American Transportation For The 21st Century,”</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2008/6/transportation%20puentes/06_transportation_puentes_report.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Right now, federal ... and our families.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Great Power War and extinction</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Baru 09 </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Sanjaya is a Visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009 , pages 163 – 168</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hence, economic policies ... remains to be seen.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Politics DA</span>=== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama has a 77.5% chance of winning now</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The New York Times Blog, (FiveThirtyEight), September 22, 2012 Saturday</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Sept. 22: Little Agreement Among Pollsters on 'Enthusiasm Gap'</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Saturday brought...probability estimates.”</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">More deficit spending would swing the election to Romney</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kraushaar, ’12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, [[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]], JD)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">If unemployment was...still runs high.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama key to solve warming</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Simpson, ’12</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Walter and Nan, Buffalo News, 4/22/12, [[http://www.buffalonews.com/editorial-page/viewpoints/article822432.ece]], JD)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">Let’s not reverse... goes to Obama.”</span>


__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**NEGATIVE STRATEGY**</span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We have gone for Anthro in our neg round.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">R1Vs Dowling WZ Alaskan ports</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1nc Anthro, Apock Retoric, Complexity</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Block Anthro, Apock Retoric, Complexity</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr Apock Retoric</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">R3 Vs HSR</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1nc Anthro Apock Retoric, Prim</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Block Anthro Apock Prim</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr Prim</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">R6 Vs Aircraft Cariers</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1nc T, Anthro, Elex, Cost control CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Block Anthro, Cost control CP, Elex, T</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr T</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]