__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC</span>**__

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government controls and __[[#|funds]]__ roads on Indian reservations. </span>
**__FHWA 12__** (Federal Highway Administration, 1/23/12, US DOT, “Tribal Transportation Program Delivery Guide -2011*” http://flh.fhwa.dot.gov/programs/irr/guide/documents/irr-full-guide.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Indian Reservation Roads (IRR) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Program ...</span>
, with a number of requirements and responsibilities that each Tribe needs to fully understand as a partner in the process..

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">However, the federal government has neglected its responsibility – the highly underfunded transportation infrastructure on Indian reservations is suffering from a huge construction and maintenance backlog that will only increase in severity. </span>
**__NCAI 10__** (National Congress of American Indians, 10/15/10, NCAI, “SENATE COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS FIELD HEARING: “TO EXAMINE TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION IN INDIAN COUNTRY,” http://www.indian.senate.gov/public/_files/JeffersonKeeltestimony00.pdf )
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The officials at the Departments of Interior and Transportation have recognized that... </span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">there continues to be significant need in Indian Country. </span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conditions on reservation roads are unsafe and inequitable – over sixty percent of the system is earth and gravel. </span>

**__NCAI 11__** (National Congress of American Indians, 9-15-11, SENATE COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS HEARING, “Oversight hearing on tribal transportation: Paving the way for Jobs, Infrastructure, and Safety in Native Communities,” http://www.indian.senate.gov/hearings/upload/Jefferson-Keel-FINAL-testimony.pdf)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Currently, there are over 140,000 miles of Indian reservation roads...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">to travel to hospitals</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> stores, schools, and __[[#|employment]]__ centers</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>







<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because of the Federal Government’s neglect American Indian traffic fatalities have steadily //increased// while American traffic fatalities have steadily //decreased//. </span>
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Keel 11</span>__</span>, Jefferson Keel, president of the National Congress of American Indians, 8-15-11, Senate Committee on Indian Affairs Hearing, “Oversight hearing on tribal transportation: Paving the way for Jobs, Infrastructure, and Safety in Native Communities,” www.indian.senate.gov/hearings/upload/Jefferson-Keel-FINAL-testimony.pdf
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">State governments spend between $4,000 ...capita of any racial or ethnic group in the United States</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal government disregard for transportation is not based off of economics but a manifestation of our pervasive institutional racism. The nature of transportation planning proves that the federal government has deprioritized the need of American Indians. Only by attacking this racist federal government decision can be we __[[#|begin]]__ to change America’s national heritage.</span>

Robert D. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard</span>, Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University. Previously Ware Professor of __[[#|Sociology]]__ and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, known as the 'father of environmental justice', 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>, "Chapter One: The anatomy of transportation racism" in __Highway robbery : transportation racism & new routes to equity__ / edited by Robert D. Bullard, Glenn S. Johnson, Angel O. Torres. Cambridge, Mass. : South End Press, p. 19


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">America’s dirty secret, institutionalized racism is ...determine where people of color live, work, and play.“ </span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan: </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Bureau of Indian Affairs’ roads.</span>


Contention Two


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current federal policies have destroyed possibilities for native mobility and eliminate means of self-governance</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller 09</span>__</span> ( Lloyd Miller has worked with Native American Tribes for 30 years. He is a partner in the law firm of Sonosky, Chambers, Sachse, Endreson & Perry, LLP., “A New Deal for Native America”, March 12, [[http://turtletalk.wordpress.com/2009/03/12/lloyd-miller-a-new-deal-for-native-america/]])</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Most Americans are only dimly aware of today’s tribal governments...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">for oil spill disasters in the face of an equally deafening congressional silence.</span>





<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, lack of transportation restricts access to critical and urgent medical care. </span>

**__Hensley-Quinn and Shawn 06__**, Maureen Hensley-Quinn and Kelly Shawn, fall 2006, Rural Transit Assistance Program of the Federal Transit Administration, “American Indian Transport: Issues and Successful Models,” http://www.ctaa.org/webmodules/webarticles/articlefiles/American_Indian_RTAP_Brief.pdf

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Indian transportation needs are similar ...developed transportation systems designed to meet the needs of their people</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Inadequate transportation infrastructure deters and restricts communication within and between reservations, damaging indigenous cultures. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Srinivasan 06</span>__</span>, Ramseh Srinivasan, 01-01-06, International Journal of Cultural Studies 9.4, “Indigenous, Ethnic, and Cultural Articulations of New Media,” pp. 497-518, UC Los Angeles Postprints, http://escholarship.org/uc/item/40p4k54t</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The reservations of San Diego County derive from the once contiguous and connected nations of Kumeyaay, Luiseno, Cupeno, and Cahuilla. These </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">nations ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">GIS-generated map of the San Pasqual reservation: </span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This destruction of Indian culture is part of modern racism – the federal government’s hands-off approach disregards the historical genocide of Indian peoples</span>**.**

**__Adams and Goldbard 95__**, Don Adams and Darlene Goldbard, writers and consultants in organizational and cultural development, 1995, Institute for Cultural Democracy, “Cultural Policy in US History,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wwcd.org/policy/US/UShistory.html#AMERCULT|http://www.wwcd.org/policy/US/UShistory.html#AMERCULT]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The decimation of indigenous American Indian cultures...been pressure to assimilate into the mainstream culture.</span>




<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is an ethical imperative to reject racism. It justifies atrocities and is truly the capital sin.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Memmi</span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>
Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult...</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">but the stakes are irresistible. </span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Systematic oppression underlies the poverty of American Indians – we must center analysis of racism when making policy</span>
**__Dill 04__,** Bonnie Thorton Dill, “Rediscovering Rural America,” //The Blackwell Companion to Sociology//, edited by Judith R. Blau, Blackwell Publishing 2004, pp. 196 – 197, online
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Most critical of the limitations of traditional explanations of rural ..</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">rural people within them </span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Everyday violence must be prioritized – it is the largest proximate cause of war, creates priming that psychologically structures the worst atrocities </span>

**__Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois 04__**(Nancy and Philippe, Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This large and at first sight “messy” ...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">communities; and reversed feelings of victimization).</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction doesn’t outweigh everything—the quest for survival shouldn’t be allowed to destroy other values</span>

**__Callahan 1973__** (Daniel, institute of Society and Ethics, The Tyranny of Survival, p. 91-3)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The value of survival could not be so readily ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">victory to end all Pyrrhic victories.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rejecting politics and refusing to engage ensures that the current “powers that be” remain unchallenged— political contestation is necessary to change the status quo framework</span>

**__Chandler, ‘4__**

(David, Snr Lecturer in International Relations at the Center for Democracy, University of Westminster, Millennium, Vol. 33, No. 4, p. 339)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The struggle for individual ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">that be can sleep peacefully in their beds. </span>