=H1 Fuel Stations Case= 



=1AC= 

=Inherency= 
*US is the hydrogen leader now, but 2012 cuts will stop this
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Auto Observers 11 (AutoObserver 11, Fuel-Cell Backers Criticize DOE Budget Cuts, 2/22/11) </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.autoobserver.com/2011/02/fuel-cell-backers-criticize-doe-budget-cuts.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">President Obama’s proposed 2012 budget boosts Department of Energy spending, especially for electric vehicles, while </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it drastically cuts hydrogen and fuel-cell research</span>__</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to the dismay of backers of those technologies. President Obama's proposed fiscal year 2012 budget raises Department of Energy funding to $29.5 billion, a nearly 12-percent increase from the current 2010 fiscal year level of $26.4 billion, and it includes $588 million to stimulate sales of one million electric vehicles by 2015. It also - </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">despite the overall hike and the nod to EVs in general - cuts deeply the </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">DOE's funding for research and development of hydrogen and fuel cell technologies, work that could help to build a future market for fuel cell electric vehicles(FCEVs).</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A similar effort last year by Energy Secretary Steven Chu to slash automotive fuel cell research in his 2010 budget proposal was reversed in Congress – but with budget-cutting Republicans in control of the House of </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Representatives this year, that's not as likely an outcome. For fiscal year 2012, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the proposed DOE budget devotes $100 million to hydrogen and fuel cell technologies, 41 percent less than the $170 million budgeted for fiscal year 2010. It also eliminates funding of the Solid State Exchange Conversion Alliance (SECA), a DOE-managed program to develop solid oxide fuel cells that would be used as range-extending auxiliary power units in electric trucks.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">While the brunt of the cuts would not be felt for a while, there is an immediate effect: raising the ire of fuel cell and hydrogen energy proponents</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> at their annual national conference, which opened last Monday just as the figures were made public and concluded on Wednesday.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> "</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">We have hundreds of fuel cell electric vehicles on the roads, and more hydrogen refueling stations in the state of California alone than in the entire rest of the world</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">," said Ruth Cox, president and executive director of the Fuel Cell Hydrogen Energy Association, in her opening remarks. Despite that, she continued, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">"</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">America's leadership in fuel cells and hydrogen energy is in jeopardy, because although we have a President who is committed to creating a clean energy economy, his administration has been misguided about the critical role fuel cells and hydrogen energy have to play in its realization."</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Dorgan quote.jpg</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The proposed budget cuts make the U.S. less competitive in the global hydrogen energy arena</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> and send "a message to American industry and the world that fuel cells and hydrogen aren't viable near-term options for America's clean energy portfolio</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">," she said.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Noting the Obama administration's pursuit of battery, solar and wind power generation, Cox also declared that "</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">the funding to sustain our current leadership in fuel cells and hydrogen technologies is modest</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">" by comparison, and she noted that fuel cells can complement other means of power generation by providing "a conversion and storage mechanism to make excess power available as hydrogen to fuel vehicles."</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Obama’s focusing on electric cars not h1.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schiller, 2012 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ben Schiller, masters from the London School of Economics in the history of nationalism, staff writer, Co.Exist, “Gas Prices Too High? Have you considered sewage?”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.fastcoexist.com/1679580/gas-prices-too-high-have-you-considered-sewage]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, April 13, 2012</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hyundai, Honda, Toyota, and Daimler are all taking part in the trial, and several are planning to launch fuel-cell vehicles in 2015. However, **__hydrogen transportation is hardly booming. GM, Ford, and Renault-Nissan, have pulled research projects, and the Obama administration has said electric vehicles are more feasible at the moment.__**</span>







=AND THUS THE PLAN:= 

The United States Federal Government should invest to establish national hydrogen fueling station network in the United States.



=Advantage One –Economy= 
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: #111111; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">The Economy is still low, unemployment.</span>**</span>
===<span style="color: #111111; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">Feierstein 11/08/12</span><span style="color: #111111; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(Mitch Feierstein is the </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">author of Planet Ponzi and knows the financial industry inside out and a highly successful hedge-fund manager and CEO of the Glacier Environmental Fund Limited. Prior to Glacier he was Senior Portfolio Manager of the Cheyne Carbon Fund, part of one of the largest and best-respected hedge-fund groups operating in Europe. He has acted as a consultant for a number of governments in their disaster and contingency planning. He divides his time between London and New York,</span><span style="color: #111111; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> “</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">2012 US Elections - 6 Billion spent for “Statu Quo” - Economic Consequences,” http://feiersteinblog.dailymail.co.uk/2012/11/6-billion-dollars-spent-on-2012-us-elections-for-statu-quo-economic-consequences-.html)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Let’s take the first indicator of failure – the stock market. The market mood darkened in September and October, then dropped abruptly as news of Obama’s victory sank in. I don’t actually think that’s because Wall Street hates Obama. I think it’s more that as the election hoopla dies away, investors realise how little they can expect from the government, how bad the economic situation really is. And, for that matter, how bad the political situation is. The House remains solidly Republican, the Senate comfortably Democrat – and the whole divisive status quo guaranteeing gridlock for another four years. Over the next few weeks, you’re going to hear a lot about the fiscal cliff. In January 2013, a whole lot of things happen together. George W. Bush’s tax cuts expire. A payroll credit expires too. Some automatic spending cuts are imposed across the board. (These last cuts, of course, aren’t thanks to some outbreak of sanity in Washington, but a bad compromise cobbled together in the course of 2011’s debt ceiling crisis.) The fiscal cliff is huge, and real. Its impact is potentially around 5% of American GDP. By contrast, George Osborne’s fiscal tightening amounts to little more than 1% a year. If you want to get your head round what a comparable tightening would imply in the British context, then just imagine that the basic rate of tax increases by 10 pence in the pound overnight. Or that spending in the NHS is halved, again overnight. Noeconomy is strong enough to take that kind of punishment. The British economy is struggling to come out of a double-dip recession even with its own weak-as-milk pace of tightening – and, indeed, I think a triple-dip recession is highly probable. The fundamentals of the US economy are in some ways better than ours (less reliance on the finance sector, less proximity to European travails) but a 5% cut in economic demand overnight? The result will be crippling. Piling a massive fiscal shop on top of those weak fundamentals, and you’re going to see a massive rise in unemployment. (If you look at U6 unemployment data for the US it’s hovering close to 15%, a shocking stat.) You might think that the solution is obvious. If the fiscal cliff is so bad, then simply decrease the slope. Go for a slow-but-sure Osborne-style tightening so the budget deficit floats gently lower. And sure enough, there are plenty of economists, living comfortably in their ivory towers, who suggest just such a solution. But that solution is not available. The IMF – hardly a sensationalist organisation – says that the elimination of America’s long run fiscal gap requires</span> //<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">both</span>//<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> a 35% increase in all taxes</span> //<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">and</span>//<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> a 35% cut in all entitlements.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> The fiscal gap is heinous, but it’s only the first step. It doesn’t even take America where it needs to go. It gets worse. If fiscal policy can’t save America, how about monetary policy? Alas, and just like in Britain, monetary policy is all out of gas. Interest rates can’t go any lower. quantitative easing (QE) has reached its limits. (And, in any case, QE is little more than a way to rescue Wall Street at the cost of inflation for the rest of us.) The worst thing that could happen to America is that Ben Bernanke, the unelected Chairman of the Federal Reserve, tries to rescue things. The best thing that could happen is that he goes on holiday for four years, having left his Blackberry in the office</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Infrastructure investments boost the economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">New America Foundation 10 — New America Foundation—“a nonprofit, nonpartisan public policy institute that invests in new thinkers and new ideas to address the next generation of challenges facing the United States,” 2010 (“The Case for an Infrastructure-Led Jobs and Growth Strategy,” February 23rd, Available Online at http://www.newamerica.net/publications/policy/the_case_for_an_infrastructure_led_jobs_and_growth_strategy, Accessed 06-09-2012)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">As the Senate takes up a greatly scaled down $15 billion jobs bill stripped of all infrastructure spending, the nation should consider the compelling case for public infrastructure investment offered by Governors Arnold Schwarzenegger (R-CA) and Ed Rendell (D-PA). Appearing on ABC’s "This Week" on Sunday, the bipartisan Co-Chairs of Building America's Future explained why </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">rebuilding </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">America’s infrastructure is the key to both</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> job creation in the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">shortand</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> medium term and our prosperity in the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">longer term. Rather than go from one negligible jobs bill to the next, the administration and Congress should, as the governors suggest, map out a multi-year plan of infrastructure investment and make it the centerpiece of an ongoing economic recovery program. Here is why: With American consumers constrained by high household debt levels and with businesses needing to work off overcapacity in many sectors, we need a new,</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> big </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">source of economic growth that can replace personal consumption as the main driver of private investment and job creation</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. The most promising new source of growth in the near to medium term is America’s pent-up demand for public infrastructure improvements</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> in everything from roads and bridges to broadband and air traffic control systems to a new energy grid. We need not only to repair large parts of our existing basic infrastructure but also to put in place the 21st-century infrastructure for a more energy-efficient and technologically advanced society. This project, entailing </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">billions of dollars of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">new government spending over the next five to ten years, would generate comparable levels of private investment and provide millions of new jobs for American workers. More specifically, public infrastructure investment would have </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">the following </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">favorable benefits for the economy:</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Job Creation.Public infrastructure investment would directly create jobs, particularly high-quality jobs</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, and thus would help counter the 8.4 million jobs lost since the Great Recession began. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">One study estimates that each billion dollars of spending on infrastructure can generate up to 17,000 jobs directly and up to 23,000 jobs by means of induced indirect investment</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. If all public infrastructure investment created jobs at this rate, then </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">$300 billion in new infrastructure spending would create more than five million jobs directly and millions more indirectly, helping to return the economy to something approaching full employment</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A Healthy Multiplier Effect.Public infrastructure investment</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> not only creates jobs but </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">generates a healthy multiplier effect throughout the economy by creating demand for materials and services</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. The U.S. Department of Transportation estimates that, for every $1 billion invested in federal highways, more than $6.2 billion in economic activity is generated. Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com, offers a more conservative but still impressive estimate of the multiplier effect of infrastructure spending, calculating that </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">every dollar of increased infrastructure spending would generate a $1.59 increase in GDP</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. Thus, by Zandi’s conservative estimates, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">$300 billion in infrastructure spending would raise GDP by nearly</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> $480 billion (close to </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">4 percent</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">). </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A More Productive Economy</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Public infrastructure investment would not only help stimulate the economy in the short term but help make it more productive over the long term, allowing us to grow our way out of the increased debt burdens resulting from the bursting of the credit bubble. As numerous studies show, public infrastructure increases productivity growth, makes private investment more efficient and competitive, and lays the foundation for future growth industries</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. In fact, many of the new growth sectors of the economy in agriculture, energy, and clean technology require major infrastructure improvements or new public infrastructure. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Needed Investments that Will Pay for Themselves</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">New infrastructure investment can easily be financed at historically low interest rates through a number of mechanisms</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, including the expansion of Build America Bonds and Recovery Zone bonds (tax-credit bonds that are subsidized by favorable federal tax treatment) and the establishment of a National Infrastructure Bank. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Public infrastructure investment will pay for itself over time as a result of increased productivity and stronger economic growth. Several decades of underinvestment in public infrastructure has created a backlog of public infrastructure needs that is undermining our economy’s efficiency and costing us billions in lost income and economic growth. By making these investments now, we would eliminate costly bottlenecks and make the economy more efficient, thereby allowing us to recoup the cost of the investment through stronger growth and higher tax revenues</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hydrogen will create many new jobs in various different sectors, both long and short term.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">BACAS 06</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(“Hydrogen as an energy carrier” by the Royal Belgian Academy Council of Applied Science in April 2006-- The Royal Belgian Academy Council of Applied Sciences (BACAS) is a Belgian council, which consists of the Flemish Academy Committee for Science and Technology (CAWET) and Walloon Comité de l'Académie pour les Applications de la Science (CAPAS) committees of the Flemish and French Academies of Science in Belgium. BACAS has ten members from the academy and ten from industry. The council studies the impact of technological development on society and provides advice for the Belgian government and leaders of industry.) The introduction of __hydrogen as an energy carrier will force a major evolution on the energy sector. It will__ consequently __force the development of a large spectrum of new technologies which in turn will induce huge R&D efforts in order to make them competitive__. The whole supply chain from production through transport and distribution to the end-user is involved. __Reducing the production costs at each step as well as improving the efficiency and the lifespan are the most important tasks. Safety features are also essential. Numerous technical fields are implicated in these developments such as**:**__ **__Material science and engineering__** - Materials showing resistance to hydrogen corrosion. - New adsorbent and porous materials for hydrogen purification and storage. - Catalysts for hydrogen production. - Catalysts for hydrogen oxidation in fuel cells. - Materials with specific electrical properties and multifunctional material for fuel cells. - Membrane technology for fuel cells and for hydrogen purification. **__Applied electrochemistry__** - Any types of Fuel Cells : Alkaline (AFC), Polymer Electrolyte Membrane or Proton Exchange Membrane (PEMFC) or Polymer Electrolyte (PEFC), Phosphoric Acid (PAFC), Molten Carbonate (MCFC), Solid Oxide (SOFC), Direct Methanol (DMFC, using methanol rather than H2). - Electrolysers. - New development in battery and super-capacitor technologies for Fuel Cell Vehicles (FCV), for the hybrids Fuel Cell Battery Vehicles (FCBV) or Hydrogen Electrical Vehicles (HEV), as well as for Battery Electrical Vehicles (BEV). **__Mechanical engineering__** - High-pressure engineering for hydrogen transport and storage. - Cryotechnical engineering for hydrogen storage, for rocket and aircraft propulsion. **__Process engineering__** - New processes for hydrogen production. - CO2 capture and storage (CCS). - Biotechnology : H2 from algae, biomethanisation, bioconversion into hydrogen. Automotive engineering - Power electronics for FCV, as well as for HEV, FCBV or BEV. - Power management strategies.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Transportation Jobs key to economy </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">U.S Department of Labor 2007</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(“Identifying and Addressing Workforce Challenges in America’s Transportation Industry” by The U.S. Department of Labor and Employment and Training Administration March 2007 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.doleta.gov/BRG/pdf/Transportation%20Report_final.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> ETA supports comprehensive __business, education, and workforce development partnerships to develop innovative approaches and replicate models that effectively serve the workforce needs of business while helping workers find good jobs with good pay and promising caree__rs. Based on the challenges identified by the transportation industry and highlighted in this report,ETA has made a series of investments totaling nearly $4 million to address industry workforce needs, funding solutions that address challenges in outreach, competency models and training, and the capacity of education and training providers. The demonstration projects address the needs of the industry broadly as well as specific sub-sectors. __The next steps in this process include the implementation of these demonstration projects and sharing the successful models with the public workforce investment system so that their replication by other transportation industry partnerships may ensure job growth for this key sector of the American economy.__</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Economic collapse now causes WWIII</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hamer 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> 3/6, *Prof Dr. Eberhard Hamer writes for Current Concerns, “Increasing Indications for a Third World War,” http://www.currentconcerns.ch/index.php?id=1012, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Due to the fact that the __US has assumed the bank debts and added them to the national budget and their already extreme increase in national debts__ – one billion dollars worth foreign credits is needed per day –, **__the biggest financial crisis since World War II has arrived__**__. If the cash flow from abroad ceased or foreign countries decided to escape the dollar, the US would be bankrupt__. Nevertheless, __the US is not making sufficient efforts to reduce their growing national debts__ with cost-cutting measures. __Neither do their raise taxes to generate more income, nor do they try to cut their budget, especially not their enormously grown military budget. The US has employed 200 000 soldiers__ in combat missions worldwide. Therefore nobody understood when the biggest warlord in the world, despite increased force levels, obtained the Nobel Peace Prize. A possible explanation: he received the prize as a precaution, because it depends mainly on him if there is a war in Iran or not. In history, __politicians who were economically at an end have often opted for war as a last resort to maintain power. This has even be truer for a country in a crisis, which sees war as a way out of an economic crisis. This is how the US surmounted the biggest depression of the 20th century by entering World War I, as well as the Great Depression by entering World War II, and now they could try to solve their third crisis in the same way__. We should not forget that both world wars enabled the US not only to overcome their enormous national debts, but they also developed into the leading economic power of the world. __The temptation to go the same way a third time is big__. Furthermore, **__Israel has positioned the atomic submarines delivered from Germany with nuclear missiles__** __in front of Iran, and in Georgia they not only rebuilt a nuclear missile position which was destroyed by Russia__ one and a half years ago, and which faces Iran, but fortified them with 90 US missile experts. __Military preparations are already advanced__. Although the US military has not yet succeeded in “pacifying” the two neighbouring states Iraq and Afghanistan, they have practiced their biggest military concentration in the world in combat mission. The Nobel Peace Prize Committee have assessed the situation correctly, namely that a war against Iran cannot happen without the US president’s approval, the least without the approval of a Nobel peace prize winner. However, __the pressure from banks, the oil billionaires, the arms industry, the military and the Israel lobby could force the US to come into war when Israel carried out the first strike against Iran__ __and the above mentioned powers wanted to secure their interests. The US is not only the country with the highest debts in the world but along with their currency their empire decays. The world’s allegedly “only superpower” is at the moment imploding in the same manner the Russian did 20 years ago__. With some kicks the Chinese have already told the US president quite clearly that they do not acknowledge their leadership any longer. Therefore, __if Israel decided to strike, the US president would face the terrible choice between sinking further into the quagmire of financial-, economic and social crisis or seeking the solution of a world war, which has made the US a winner twice already__. The danger of a world war has never been greater since World War II. Therefore, increasing warnings to the US mostly from a group of European intellectuals for more than a year have been justified. However, **__we cannot prevent it__**__. A war in Iran would not remain a local event even if it was only led with missiles at the beginning. On Iran’s side the **Chinese would intervene directly or indirectly and the Russians possibly as well to prevent the US from approaching their borders and becoming too dominant**__. On the side of Israel and the US the NATO states would be obliged to help, especially when they had sworn Nibelung loyalty before. Therefore, __we in Europe have to brace ourselves for a participation in a war. Merkel’s government might find a war as the last political way out of their mess after the bailouts, public insolvency, the looming financial collapse of the social systems, and social unrest as a result of missing genuine corrections. **War is coming up. The next few months will decide if we will be drawn into a Third World War**__or if we can escape this danger.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Investor perspective key to US leadership.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Orzag 5 (Gale, “American Fiscal Policy: Trends, Effects, and Implications,” December. http://www.ifri.org/files/CFE/gale_orszag2005.pdf) </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We categorize the effects of budget deficits into two types</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. What we here call **__the “traditional” effects are those described in terms of changes in the usual macroeconomic aggregates__**, such as consumption, saving, and investment, resulting from the linkages among them as described in any macroeconomics textbook. **__The “nontraditional” effects include the effects of weakened investor confidence in a country’s economic leadership due to increased deficits, the possible threshold effect of a sudden change in investor perceptions of the sustainability of a country’s deficits, and those effects that go beyond the strictly economic realm, such as the effect of a country’s debtor or creditor status on its international power and influence__**.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">US leadership prevents nuclear conflict.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad 95 (Zalmay, Analyst @ Rand Corporation - 1995 “"Losing the moment? The United States and the world after the Cold War,” Washington Quarterly, Volume 18, Number 2, Spring. [Online] Lexis)</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Finally, **__U.S. leadership would help preclude the rise of another hostile global rival, enabling the__** United States and the **__world to avoid another global__** cold or hot **__war and all the attendant dangers, including a global nuclear exchange. U.S. leadership would conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power__** system.</span>


=Advantage Two – Peak Oil= 


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Due to oil price spikes, an average tank of gas will cost up to $100 to fill </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nemeth 2005 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(“American Energy Security and a Sustainable Energy Future: Building a Bridge to Energy Independence” by Kenneth J. Nemeth on October 2005. Kenneth Nemeth has served as secretary and executive director of the Southern States Energy Board, an interstate compact of 16 states and two territories whose members are governors and state legislators with a federal representative appointed by the president of the United States. Nemeth currently serves as a member of the National Coal Council and numerous boards, organizations, task forces, and partnerships representing energy and environmental strategies and technologies. Nemeth is a graduate of the Florida State University.)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2005, U.S. oil imports totaled</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> approximately $250 billion, or $__680 million per day____. This figure is fast approaching $1 billion per day__. The total cost to the U.S. economy estimates are more than $300 billion per year. __U.S. dependence on crude oil and refined product imports imposes economic penalties__ that are not fully reflected in the retail price of gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel__. These penalties include: Military expenditures specifically tied to defending Persian Gulf oil; The cost of lost employment and investment resulting from the diversion of financial resources; The cost of the periodic oil price increases and disruptions the nation has experienced (and will likely continue to experience); and The erosion of the U.S. industrial base__. When these elements are considered, __the real price of imported oil exceeds $100 per barrel of crude. **This translates into a pump price for gasoline of more than $5 per gallon, or nearly $100 to fill an average vehicle gas tank.**__</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Oil is Finite and will cause global tension once it becomes scarce </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">BACAS 06</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(“Hydrogen as an energy carrier” by the Royal Belgian Academy Council of Applied Science in April 2006-- The Royal Belgian Academy Council of Applied Sciences (BACAS) is a Belgian council, which consists of the Flemish Academy Committee for Science and Technology (CAWET) and Walloon Comité de l'Académie pour les Applications de la Science (CAPAS) committees of the Flemish and French Academies of Science in Belgium. BACAS has ten members from the academy and ten from industry. The council studies the impact of technological development on society and provides advice for the Belgian government and leaders of industry.) </span>


__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">More than eighty percent of</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">our present energy supply is coming from fossil resources.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> This __situation is not sustainable in the long term not only because the reserves are finite but also because the known reserves are geographically not equally distributed__ but concentrated in a few areas of the world. As an example, __two thirds of the known reserves of oil are located in the Middle East. A major part of the gas used in Europe will be imported from the former Soviet Union. This__ concentration __creates__ actually __geopolitical tensions and problems__. __They could dramatically increase when reserves begin to shrink__ __if alternative solutions are not developed and implemented__. This energy dependency is extremely high for countries with insufficient resources, or almost none such as Belgium. __An energy carrier which could be produced from any primary energy source - especially from renewables - would improve the reliability of the energy supply. This is the case for hydrogen.__ It is comparable to electricity but probably easier to store. The penetration of hydrogen, produced in the near term from a broader range of fossil fuels (gas,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">coal or unconventional oil such as bituminous shale or asphalted sand) will indeed improve immediately the availability of energy for any type of utilization. More importantly, __with the progressive integration of renewable energy sources, it will also ensure some of the long term energy supply.__</span>
A transition away from oil is inevitable. Hydrogen is key to smooth the transition – no other source can fill the gap
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zerta et al 08(Martin Zerta winner of Vaillant award for fuel cell research, Munich College, researcher atLudwig-Bölkow-Systemtechnik GmbH), Patrick Schmidt, (Professor Macalester College, Dipl. Ing. M.S.), Christoph Stiller, (M.S Dipl. –Ing. FH Versorgungstechnik), Hubert Landinger, (M.S. University Karlsruhe), Ludwig-Bölkow-Systemtechnik GmbH “Alternative World Energy Outlook (AWEO) and the role of hydrogen in a changing energy landscape,” (2008) ScienceDirect</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hydrogen is an energy carrier, not an energy source, and thus requires primary energy for its production.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Hydrogen can be produced from almost any primary energy at high efficiency and can be used for efficient power generation in e.g. fuel cells. Moreover, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">hydrogen offers a crosscut from electricity to transportation fuels and energy storage</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, which is of special importance for a future dominated by renewable energies. Hence, it allows for a higher penetration of intermittent renewable energies into the energy system, at the same timerelieving the transport sector from today's strong dependency on oiland its associated greenhouse gas emissions. This cannot be provided by biofuels as these can only be produced from </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">specific, limited sources. For the transition from a fuel dominated energy economy to an electricity based one, we need the ability to produce fuel from electricity, not only electricity from fuel as is prevalent today. 5.1. Transport sector Today, hydrogen use is mainly seen in the transportation sector, where battery electric vehicles are not expected to fulfil all the users’ expectations in the foreseeable future.1 Well-to-wheel analyses show that hydrogen as a transportation fuel is superior to its practical alternatives with respect to efficiency and emissions [10] and [11]. The yield per land used is significantly higher than with biofuels (see Fig. 3). Remarkably, with wind some 99% of the land area can still be used for other purposes. In case of PV, 1/3rd of the area is occupied by panels only. All major automakers are committed to hydrogen as the fuel of the future. The largest barriers for introduction are the high cost of fuel cell technologies and the need for a completely new fuel production and supply infrastructure. Market entry and large-scale use of hydrogen in </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">transportation is anticipated between 2010 and 2015. 5.2. Stationary sector Hydrogen for production of stationary power is mainly anticipated where direct use of renewable electricity is impossible (e.g. due to demand and supply mismatch), and where more efficient storage (such as hydropower reservoirs) is not available. This could apply to remote areas or property as well as islands without grid connection. Using hydrogen as an intermediate storage medium for stationary electricity is rather inefficient compared to alternative storage media. This is different in the transportation sector where basically no practically acceptable alternative exists. Thus, in an integrated network, hydrogen still facilitates effective and energy-efficient load management: transportation fuel is—beside other production pathways—produced at times when abundant electricity is available in the grid; and electrolyser load is dropped-off if stationary power supply is needed to cover the electricity demand from industry and households. 6. Conclusions It is beyond doubt that the future energy landscape will be fundamentally different from todays. Most likely, the transformation process will proceed rather fast. Current developments in the conventional energy market—especially the disruptions in oil and natural gas supplies—could be a first signal that this change may have started already and is still gaining momentum. According to LBST analyses, the critical transition period will be between 2015 and 2025</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> when conventional </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">energy supplies are declining globally. Transportation fuel supply is the bottleneck due to its high dependency on oil.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> World oil production will peak before 2010, natural gas by 2020.</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> Coal and nuclear energy cannot fill the gap. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coal will peak before 2050 depending on the extent coal might be used also for the production of transportation fuels. Contributions from nuclear energy will remain marginal on a global level and without considerable increase despite its relevance for some regions.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Biomass potentials are limited and cannot cover the current world energy demand on its own</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. A significant share of the available biomass is already allocated to the stationary sector to provide heat and power. Furthermore, land use competition for fuel and food production is a very critical issue which needs to be addressed in order to avoid distortions in food provision.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> In general, energy efficiency and energy saving are key elements to minimise disruptions in energy provision and allow for a long-term, sustainable energy supply. Moreover, new technology vectors such as hydrogen are required to fulfil the transition of the energy system.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Today, electricity is generated with significant input of primary energy while transportation fuel is provided with few conversion losses in oil refineries. In the future, this picture will turn up-side down. While most RES produce electricity directly, such as wind power and PV, transportation fuels will be produced with higher efforts, such as hydrogen or biofuels.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Hydrogen is primarily suited as transportation fuel due to its feedstock flexibility and well-to-wheel efficiency</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. In stationary applications </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">it can contribute to effective and energy-efficient load management through the time-triggered production of fuels from excess electricity</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Especially </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">this crosscut from electricity to transportation fuels makes hydrogen a key technology for a future dominated by fluctuating renewable energy. </span>
Decreasing oil supplies will cause escalating great power wars – transition is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klare 08 (Michael T Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The rise of the new energy world order, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/JD17Dj04.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oil at US$110 a barrel. Gasoline at $3.35 (or more) per gallon. Diesel fuel at $4 per gallon. Independent truckers forced off the road. Home heating oil rising to unconscionable price levels. Jet fuel so expensive that three low-cost airlines stopped flying in the past few weeks. This is just a taste of the latest energy news, signaling a profound change in how all of us, in this country and around the world, are going to live - trends that, so far as anyone can predict, will only become more pronounced as energy supplies dwindle and the global struggle over their allocation intensifies.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Energy of all sortswas once hugely abundant, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">making possible the worldwide economic expansion of the past six decades.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> This expansion benefited the United States above all - along with its "First World" allies in Europe and the Pacific. Recently, however, a select group of former "Third World" countries - China and India </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> in particular - have sought to participate in this energy bonanza by industrializing their economies and selling a wide range of goods to international markets. This, in turn, has led to an unprecedented spurt in global energy consumption - a 47% rise in the past 20 years alone, according to the US Department of Energy (DoE). An increase of this sort would not be a matter of deep anxiety if the world's primary energy suppliers were capable of producing the needed additional fuels. Instead, we face a frightening reality: a marked slowdown in the expansion of global energy supplies just as demand rises precipitously. Thesesupplies are</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> not exactly disappearing - though that will occur sooner or later - </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">but they are not growing fast enough to satisfy soaring global demand.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The combination of rising demand, the emergence of powerful new energy consumers, and the contraction of the global energy supply is demolishing the energy-abundant world we are familiar with and creating in its place a new world order. Think of it as rising powers/shrinking planet. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">This new world order will be characterized by fierce international competition for dwindling stocks of oil</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, natural gas, coal and uranium, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">as well as by a tidal shift in power and wealth</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> from energy-deficit states like China, Japan and the United States</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> to energy-surplus states</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> like Russia, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. In the process, the lives of everyone will be affected in one way or another - with poor and middle-class consumers in the energy-deficit states experiencing the harshest effects. That's most of us and our children, in case you hadn't quite taken it in. Here, </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in a nutshell, are five key forces in this new world order which will change our planet: 1. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Intense competition between older and newer economic powers for available supplies of energy. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Until very recently, the mature industrial powers of Europe, Asia and North America consumed the lion's share of energy and left the dregs for the developing world. As recently as 1990, the members of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the club of the world's richest nations, consumed approximately 57% of world energy; the Soviet Union/Warsaw Pact bloc, 14%; and only 29% was left to the developing world. But that ratio is changing: with strong economic growth in the developing countries, a greater proportion of the world's energy is being consumed by them. By 2010, the developing world's share of energy use is expected to reach 40% and, if current trends persist, 47% by 2030.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> China plays a critical role in all this. The Chinese alone are projected to consume 17% of world energy by 2015, and 20% by 2025 - by which time, if trend lines continue, it will have overtaken the United States as the world's leading energy consumer. India, which, in 2004, accounted for 3.4% of world energy use, is projected to reach 4.4% by 2025, while consumption in other rapidly industrializing nations like Brazil, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Turkey is expected to grow as well.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> These rising economic dynamos will have to compete with the mature economic powers for access to remaining untapped reserves of exportable energy - in many cases, bought up long ago by the private energy firms of the mature powers like Exxon Mobil, Chevron, BP, Total of France and Royal Dutch Shell. Of necessity, the new contenders have developed a potent strategy for competing with the Western "majors": they've created state-owned companies of their own and fashioned strategic alliances with the national oil companies that now control oil and gas reserves in many of the major energy-producing nations. China's Sinopec, for example, has established a strategic alliance with Saudi Aramco, the nationalized giant once owned by Chevron and Exxon Mobil, to explore for natural gas in Saudi Arabia and market Saudi crude oil in China. Likewise, the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) will collaborate with Gazprom, the massive state-controlled Russian natural gas monopoly, to build pipelines and deliver Russian gas to China. Several of these state-owned firms, including CNPC and India's Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, are now set to collaborate with Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. in developing the extra-heavy crude of the Orinoco belt once controlled by Chevron. In this new stage of energy competition, the advantages long enjoyed by Western energy majors has been eroded by vigorous, state-backed upstarts from the developing world. 2. The insufficiency of primary energy supplies: The capacity of the global energy industry to satisfy demand is shrinking. By all accounts, the global supply of oil will expand for perhaps another half-decade before reaching a peak and beginning to decline, while supplies of natural gas, coal, and uranium will probably grow for another decade or two before peaking and commencing their own inevitable declines. In the meantime, global supplies of these existing fuels will prove incapable of reaching the elevated levels demanded. Take oil. The U.S. Department of Energy claims that world oil demand, expected to reach 117.6 million barrels per day in 2030, will be matched by a supply that -- miracle of miracles -- will hit exactly 117.7 million barrels (including petroleum liquids derived from allied substances like natural gas and Canadian tar sands) at the same time. Most energy professionals, however, consider this estimate highly unrealistic. "One hundred million barrels is now in my view an optimistic case," the CEO of Total, Christophe de Margerie, typically told a London oil conference in October 2007. "It is not my view; it is the industry view, or the view of those who like to speak clearly, honestly, and [are] not just trying to please people." Similarly, the authors of the Medium-Term Oil Market Report, published in July 2007 by the International Energy Agency, an affiliate of the OECD, concluded that world oil output might hit 96 million barrels per day by 2012, but was unlikely to go much beyond that as a dearth of new discoveries made future growth impossible. Daily business-page headlines point to a vortex of clashing trends: worldwide demand will continue to grow as hundred of millions of newly-affluent Chinese and Indian consumers line up to purchase their first automobile (some selling for as little as $2,500); key older "elephant" oil fields like Ghawar in Saudi Arabia and Canterell in Mexico are already in decline or expected to be so soon; and the rate of new oil-field discoveries plunges year after year. So expect global energy shortages and high prices to be a constant source of hardship. 3. The painfully slow development of energy alternatives: It has long been evident to policymakers that new sources of energy are desperately needed to compensate for the eventual disappearance of existing fuels as well as to slow the buildup of climate-changing "greenhouse gases" in the atmosphere. In fact, wind and solar power have gained significant footholds in some parts of the world. A number of other innovative energy solutions have already been developed and even tested out in university and corporate laboratories. But these alternatives, which now contribute only a tiny percentage of the world's net fuel supply, are simply not being developed fast enough to avert the multifaceted global energy catastrophe that lies ahead. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, renewable fuels, including wind, solar, and hydropower (along with "traditional" fuels like firewood and dung), supplied but 7.4% of global energy in 2004; biofuels added another 0.3%. Meanwhile, fossil fuels -- oil, coal, and natural gas -- supplied 86% percent of world energy, nuclear power another 6%. Based on current rates of development and investment, the DoE offers the following dismal projection: In 2030, fossil fuels will still account for exactly the same share of world energy as in 2004. The expected increase in renewables and biofuels is so slight -- a mere 8.1% -- as to be virtually meaningless. In global warming terms, the implications are nothing short of catastrophic: Rising reliance on coal </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(especially in China, India, and the United States) means that global emissions of carbon dioxide are projected to rise by 59% over the next quarter-century, from 26.9 billion metric tons to 42.9 billion tons. The meaning of this is simple. If these figures hold, there is no hope of averting the worst effects of climate change. When it comes to global energy supplies, the implications are nearly as dire. To meet soaring energy demand, we would need a massive influx of alternative fuels, which would mean equally massive investment -- in the trillions of dollars -- to ensure that the newest possibilities move rapidly from laboratory to full-scale commercial production; but that, sad to say, is not in the cards. Instead, the major energy firms (backed by lavish U.S. government subsidies and tax breaks) are putting their mega-windfall profits from rising energy prices into vastly expensive (and environmentally questionable) schemes to extract oil and gas from Alaska and the Arctic, or to drill in the deep and difficult waters of the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean. The result? A few more barrels of oil or cubic feet of natural gas at exorbitant prices (with accompanying ecological damage), while non-petroleum alternatives limp along pitifully. 4. A steady migration of power and wealth from energy-deficit to energy-surplus nations: There are few countries -- perhaps a dozen altogether -- with enough oil, gas, coal, and uranium (or some combination thereof) to meet their own energy needs and provide significant surpluses for export. Not surprisingly, such states will be able to extract increasingly beneficial terms from the much wider pool of energy-deficit nations dependent on them for vital supplies of energy. These terms, primarily of a financial nature, will result in growing mountains of petrodollars being accumulated by the leading oil producers, but will also include political and military concessions. In the case of oil and natural gas, the major energy-surplus states can be counted on two hands. Ten oil-rich states possess 82.2% of the world's proven reserves. In order of importance, they are: Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Venezuela, Russia, Libya, Kazakhstan, and Nigeria. The possession of natural gas is even more concentrated. Three countries -- Russia, Iran, and Qatar -- harbor an astonishing 55.8% of the world supply. All of these countries are in an enviable position to cash in on the dramatic rise in global energy prices and to extract from potential customers whatever political concessions they deem important. The transfer of wealth alone is already mind-boggling. The oil-exporting countries collected an estimated $970 billion from the importing countries in 2006, and the take for 2007, when finally calculated, is expected to be far higher. A substantial fraction of these dollars, yen, and euros have been deposited in "sovereign-wealth funds" (SWFs), giant investment accounts owned by the oil states and deployed for the acquisition of valuable assets around the world. In recent months, the Persian Gulf SWFs have been taking advantage of the financial crisis in the United States to purchase large stakes in strategic sectors of its economy. In November 2007, for example, the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) acquired a $7.5 billion stake in Citigroup, America's largest bank holding company; in January, Citigroup sold an </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">even larger share, worth $12.5 billion, to the Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) and several other Middle Eastern investors, including Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia. The managers of ADIA and KIA insist that they do not intend to use their newly-acquired stakes in Citigroup and other U.S. banks and corporations to influence U.S. economic or foreign policy, but it is hard to imagine that a financial shift of this magnitude, which can only gain momentum in the decades ahead, will not translate into some form of political leverage. In the case of Russia, which has risen from the ashes of the Soviet Union as the world's first energy superpower, it already has. Russia is now the world's leading supplier of natural gas, the second largest supplier of oil, and a major producer of coal and uranium. Though many of these assets were briefly privatized during the reign of Boris Yeltsin, President Vladimir Putin has brought most of them back under state control -- in some cases, by exceedingly questionable legal means. He then used these assets in campaigns to bribe or coerce former Soviet republics on Russia's periphery reliant on it for the bulk of their oil and gas supplies. European Union countries have sometimes expressed dismay at Putin's tactics, but they, too, are dependent on Russian energy supplies, and so have learned to mute their protests to accommodate growing Russian power in Eurasia. Consider Russia a model for the new energy world order. 5. A growing risk of conflict: Throughout history, major shifts in power have normally been accompanied by violence -- in some cases, protracted violent upheavals. Either states at the pinnacle of power have struggled to prevent the loss of their privileged status, or challengers have fought to topple those at the top of the heap. Will that happen now? Will energy-deficit states launch campaigns to wrest the oil and gas reserves of surplus states from their control -- the Bush administration's war in Iraq might already be thought of as one such attempt -- or to eliminate competitors among their deficit-state rivals? The high costs and risks of modern warfare are well known and there is a widespread perception that energy problems can best be solved through economic means, not military ones. Nevertheless, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">the major powers are employing military means in</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> their efforts to gain advantage in the global struggle for energy, and no one should be deluded on the subject. These endeavors could easilyenough</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">lead to unintended escalation and conflict</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. One conspicuous use of military means in the pursuit of energy is obviously the regular transfer of arms and military-support services by the major energy-importing states to their principal suppliers. Both the United States and China, for example, have stepped up their deliveries of arms and equipment to oil-producing states like Angola, Nigeria, and Sudan in Africa and, in the Caspian Sea basin, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan. The United States has placed particular emphasis on suppressing the armed insurgency in the vital Niger Delta region of Nigeria, where most of the country's oil is produced; Beijing has emphasized arms aid to Sudan, where Chinese-led oil operations are threatened by insurgencies in both the South and Darfur. Russia is also using arms transfers as an instrument in its efforts to gain influence in the major oil- and gas-producing regions of the Caspian Sea basin and the Persian Gulf. Its urge is not to procure energy for its own use, but to dominate the flow of energy to others. In particular, Moscow seeks a monopoly on the transportation of Central Asian gas to Europe via Gazprom's vast pipeline network; it also wants to tap into Iran's mammoth gas fields, further cementing Russia's control over the trade in natural gas. The danger, of course, is that such endeavors, multiplied over time, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">will provoke regional arms races, exacerbate regional tensions, and increase the danger of great-power involvement in any local conflicts that erupt. History has all too many examples of such miscalculations leading to wars that spiral out of control</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Think of the years leading up to World War I. In fact, Central Asia and the Caspian today, with their multiple ethnic disorders and great-power rivalries, bear more than a glancing resemblance to the Balkans in the years leading up to 1914. What this adds up to is simple and sobering: the end of the world as you've known it. In the new, energy-centric world we have all now entered, the price of oil will dominate our lives and power will reside in the hands of those who control its global distribution. In this new world order, energy will govern our lives in new ways and on a daily basis. It will determine when, and for what purposes, we use our cars; how high (or low) we turn our thermostats; when, where, or even if, we travel; increasingly, what foods we eat (given that the price of producing and distributing many meats and vegetables is profoundly affected by the cost of oil or the allure of growing corn for ethanol); for some of us, where to live; for others, what businesses we engage in; for all of us, when and under what circumstances we go to war or avoid foreign entanglements that could end in war. This leads to a final observation: </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">The most pressing decision</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> facing the next president and Congress </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">may be how best to accelerate the transition from a fossil-fuel-based energy system</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to a system based on climate-friendly energy alternatives. </span>

=Advantage Three- Warming= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It is undeniable, global warming is occurring now and is anthropogenic. The data is on our side, CO2 emissions outweigh the alt causes. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Stefan **Rahmstorf, 2008,** Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, ‘8 (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It is time to turn to statement B: human activities are altering the climate. This can be broken into two parts. The first is as follows: **__global climate is warming. This is__** by now a generally **__undisputed__** point (except by novelist Michael Crichton), so we deal with it only briefly. The two **__leading compilations of data measured with thermometers__** are shown in figure 3-3, that of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and that of the British Hadley Centre for Climate Change. Although they differ in the details, due to the inclusion of different data sets and use of different spatial averaging and quality control procedures, they both **__show__** a **__consistent__** picture, with a global mean **__warming of 0.8°C__** since the late nineteenth century. **__Temperatures__** over the past ten years **__clearly were the warmest since measured records have been available.__** The year 1998 sticks out well above the longterm trend due to the occurrence of a major El Nino event that year (the last El Nino so far and one of the strongest on record). These events are examples of the largest natural climate variations on multiyear time scales and, by releasing heat from the ocean, generally cause positive anomalies in global mean temperature. It is remarkable that the year 2005 rivaled the heat of 1998 even though no El Nino event occurred that year. (A bizarre curiosity, perhaps worth mentioning, is that several prominent "climate skeptics" recently used the extreme year 1998 to claim in the media that global warming had ended. In Lindzen's words, "Indeed, the absence of any record breakers during the past seven years is statistical evidence that temperatures are not increasing.")33 In addition to the surface measurements, the more recent portion of the global **__warming__** trend (since 1979) **__is__** also **__documented by satellite data. It is not straightforward to derive a reliable__** surface temperature **__trend from satellites,__** as **__they measure radiation__** coming **__from__** **__throughout the atmosphere__** (not just near the surface), **__including the stratosphere, which has strongly cooled, and__** the records are not homogeneous' due to the **__short life span of individual satellites__**, the problem of **__orbital decay__**, observations at different times of day, and **__drifts in instrument calibration__**.' Current analyses of these satellite data show trends that are **__fully consistent with surface measurements and model simulations__**." If no reliable temperature measurements existed, could we be sure that the climate is warming? The "canaries in the coal mine" of climate change (as glaciologist Lonnie Thompson puts it) ~are mountain glaciers. We know, both from old photographs and from the position of the terminal moraines heaped up by the flowing ice, that mountain **__glaciers have been in retreat__** all over the world during the past century. There are precious few exceptions, and they are associated with a strong increase in precipitation or local cooling.36 I have inspected examples of shrinking glaciers myself in field trips to Switzerland, Norway, and New Zealand. As glaciers respond sensitively to temperature changes, data on the extent of glaciers have been used to reconstruct a history of Northern Hemisphere temperature over the past four centuries (see figure 3-4). **__Cores drilled__** in tropical glaciers **__show signs of__** recent **__melting that is unprecedented__** at least **__throughout__** the Holocene-**__the past 10,000 years__**. Another powerful sign of warming, visible clearly from satellites, is the **__shrinking__** **__Arctic sea ice__** cover (figure 3-5), which **__has declined 20 percent__** since satellite observations began in 1979. While climate clearly became warmer in the twentieth century, much discussion particularly in the popular media has focused on the question of how "unusual" this warming is in a longer-term context. While this is an interesting question, it has often been mixed incorrectly with the question of causation. Scientifically, how unusual recent warming is-say, compared to the past millennium-in itself contains little information about its cause. Even a highly unusual warming could have a natural cause (for example, an exceptional increase in solar activity). And even a warming within the bounds of past natural variations could have a predominantly anthropogenic cause. I come to the question of causation shortly, after briefly visiting the evidence for past natural climate variations. Records from the time before systematic temperature measurements were collected are based on "proxy data," coming from tree rings, ice cores, corals, and other sources. These proxy data are generally linked to local temperatures in some way, but they may be influenced by other parameters as well (for example, precipitation), they may have a seasonal bias (for example, the growth season for tree rings), and high-quality long records are difficult to obtain and therefore few in number and geographic coverage. Therefore, there is still substantial uncertainty in the evolution of past global or hemispheric temperatures. (Comparing only local or regional temperature; as in Europe, is of limited value for our purposes,' as regional variations can be much larger than global ones and can have many regional causes, unrelated to global-scale forcing and climate change.) The first quantitative reconstruction for the Northern Hemisphere temperature of the past millennium, including an error estimation, was presented by Mann, Bradley, and Hughes and rightly highlighted in the 2001 IPCC report as one of the major new findings since its 1995 report; it is shown in figure 3_6.39 The analysis suggests that, despite the large error bars, twentieth-century warming is indeed highly unusual and probably was unprecedented during the past millennium. This result, presumably because of its symbolic power, has attracted much criticism, to some extent in scientific journals, but even more so in the popular media. The hockey stick-shaped curve became a symbol for the IPCC, .and criticizing this particular data analysis became an avenue for some to question the credibility of the IPCC. Three important things have been overlooked in much of the media coverage. First, even if the scientific critics had been right, this would not have called into question the very cautious conclusion drawn by the IPCC from the reconstruction by Mann, Bradley, and Hughes: "New analyses of proxy data for the Northern Hemisphere indicate that the increase in temperature in the twentieth century is likely to have been the largest of any century during the past 1,000 years." This conclusion has since been supported further by every single one of close to a dozen new reconstructions (two of which are shown in figure 3-6).Second, by far the most serious scientific criticism raised against Mann, Hughes, and Bradley was simply based on a mistake. 40 The prominent paper of von Storch and others, which claimed (based on a model test) that the method of Mann, Bradley, and Hughes systematically underestimated variability, "was [itself] based on incorrect implementation of the reconstruction procedure."41 With correct implementation, climate field reconstruction procedures such as the one used by Mann, Bradley, and Hughes have been shown to perform well in similar model tests. Third, whether their reconstruction is accurate or not has no bearing on policy. If their analysis underestimated past natural climate variability, this would certainly not argue for a smaller climate sensitivity and thus a lesser concern about the consequences of our emissions. Some have argued that, in contrast, it would point to a larger climate sensitivity. While this is a valid point in principle, it does not apply in practice to the climate sensitivity estimates discussed herein or to the range given by IPCC, since these did not use the reconstruction of Mann, Hughes, and Bradley or any other proxy records of the past millennium. Media claims that "a pillar of the Kyoto Protocol" had been called into question were therefore misinformed. As an aside, the protocol was agreed in 1997, before the reconstruction in question even existed. The overheated public debate on this topic has, at least, helped to attract more researchers and funding to this area of paleoclimatology; its methodology has advanced significantly, and a number of new reconstructions have been presented in recent years. While the science has moved forward, the first seminal reconstruction by Mann, Hughes, and Bradley has held up remarkably well, with its main features reproduced by more recent work. Further progress probably will require substantial amounts of new proxy data, rather than further refinement of the statistical techniques pioneered by Mann, Hughes, and Bradley.Developing these data sets will require time and substantial effort. It is time to address the final statement: most of **__the observed warming__** over the past fifty years **__is anthropogenic__**. A large number of studies exist that have taken different approaches to analyze this issue, which is generally called the "attribution problem." I do not discuss the exact share of the anthropogenic contribution (although this is an interesting question). By "most" I imply mean "more than 50 percent.” The first and crucial piece of evidence is, of course, that **__the magnitude of the warming is what is expected from__** the **__anthropogenic perturbation of the radiation balance,__** so **__anthropogenic forcing is able to explain all of the temperature__** **__rise__**. As discussed here, **__the rise in greenhouse gases__** alone **__corresponds to__** 2.6 W/tn2 of forcing. This by itself, after subtraction of the observed 0'.6 W/m2 of ocean heat uptake, would Cause **__1.6°C of warming__** since preindustrial times for medium climate sensitivity (3"C). With a current "best guess'; aerosol forcing of 1 W/m2, the expected warming is O.8°c. The point here is not that it is possible to obtain the 'exact observed number-this is fortuitous because the amount of aerosol' forcing is still very' uncertain-but that the expected magnitude is roughly right. There can be little doubt that the anthropogenic forcing is large enough to explain most of the warming. Depending on aerosol forcing and climate sensitivity, it could explain a large fraction of the warming, or all of it, or even more warming than has been observed (leaving room for natural processes to counteract some of the warming). The second important piece of evidence is clear**__: there is no viable alternative explanation__**. In the scientific literature, no serious alternative hypothesis has been proposed to explain the observed global warming. Other possible causes, such as **__solar__** activity, **__volcanic__** **__activity, cosmic rays, or orbital cycles__**, are well observed, but **__they do not show trends capable of explaining__** the observed **__warming__**. Since 1978, solar irradiance has been measured directly from satellites and shows the well-known eleven-year solar cycle, but no trend. There are various estimates of solar variability before this time, based on sunspot numbers, solar cycle length, the geomagnetic AA index, neutron monitor data, and, carbon-14 data. These indicate that solar activity probably increased somewhat up to 1940. While there is disagreement about the variation in previous centuries, different authors agree that solar activity did not significantly increase during the last sixty-five years. Therefore, this cannot explain the warming, and neither can any of the other factors mentioned. Models driven by natural factors only, leaving the anthropogenic forcing aside, show a cooling in the second half of the twentieth century (for an example, See figure 2-2, panel a, in chapter 2 of this volume). The trend in the sum of natural forcings is downward.The only way out would be either some as yet undiscovered unknown forcing or a warming trend that arises by chance from an unforced internal variability in the climate system. The latter cannot be completely ruled out, but has to be considered highly unlikely. No evidence in the observed record, proxy data, or current models suggest that such internal variability could cause a sustained trend of global warming of the observed magnitude. As discussed, twentieth century warming is unprecedented over the past 1,000 years (or even 2,000 years, as the few longer reconstructions available now suggest), which does not 'support the idea of large internal fluctuations. Also, those past variations correlate well with past forcing (solar variability, volcanic activity) and thus appear to be largely forced rather than due to unforced internal variability." And indeed, it would be difficult for a large and sustained unforced variability to satisfy the fundamental physical law of energy conservation. Natural internal variability generally shifts heat around different parts of the climate system-for example, the large El Nino event of 1998, which warmed, the atmosphere by releasing heat stored in the ocean. This mechanism implies that the ocean heat content drops as the atmosphere warms. For past decades, as discussed, we observed the atmosphere warming and the ocean heat content increasing, which rules out heat release from the ocean as a cause of surface warming. The heat content of the whole climate system is increasing, and there is no plausible source of this heat other than the heat trapped by greenhouse gases. ' A completely different approach to attribution is to analyze the spatial patterns of climate change. This is done in so-called fingerprint studies, which associate particular patterns or "fingerprints" with different forcings. It is plausible that the pattern of a solar-forced climate change differs from the pattern of a change caused by greenhouse gases. For example, a characteristic of greenhouse gases is that heat is trapped closer to the Earth's surface and that, unlike solar variability, greenhouse gases tend to warm more in winter, and at night. Such **__studies have used different data__** sets and have **__been performed by different groups__** of researchers **__with different statistical methods__**. They consistently conclude that the observed spatial pattern of warming can only be explained by greenhouse gases.49 Overall, it has to be considered, highly likely' that the observed warming is indeed predominantly due to the human-caused increase in greenhouse gases. ' This paper discussed the evidence for the anthropogenic increase in atmospheric CO2 concentration and the effect of CO2 on climate, finding that this anthropogenic increase is proven beyond reasonable doubt and that a mass of evidence points to a CO2 effect on climate of 3C ± 1.59C global-warming for a doubling of concentration. (This is, the classic IPCC range; my personal assessment is that, in-the light of new studies since the IPCC Third Assessment Report, the uncertainty range can now be narrowed somewhat to 3°C ± 1.0C) This is **__based on consistent results from theory, models, and data analysis__**, and, even in the absence-of any computer models, the same result would still hold based on physics and on data from climate history alone. Considering the plethora of consistent evidence, the chance that these conclusions are wrong has to be considered minute. If the preceding is accepted, then it follows logically and incontrovertibly that **__a further increase in CO2__** concentration **__will lead to further warming__**. The magnitude of our emissions depends on human behavior, but the climatic response to various emissions scenarios can be computed from the information presented here. The result is the famous range of future global temperature scenarios shown in figure 3_6.50 Two additional steps are involved in these computations: the consideration of anthropogenic forcings other than CO2 (for example, other greenhouse gases and aerosols) and the computation of concentrations from the emissions. Other gases are not discussed here, although they are important to get quantitatively accurate results. **__CO2 is the largest and most important forcing__**. Concerning concentrations, the scenarios shown basically assume that ocean and biosphere take up a similar share of our emitted CO2 as in the past. This could turn out to be an optimistic assumption; some models indicate the possibility of a positive feedback, with the biosphere turning into a carbon source rather than a sink under growing climatic stress. It is clear that even in the more optimistic of the shown (non-mitigation) scenarios, global temperature would rise by 2-3°C above its preindustrial level by the end of this century. Even for a paleoclimatologist like myself, this is an extraordinarily high temperature, which is very likely unprecedented in at least the past 100,000 years. As far as the data show, **__we__** **__would have to go back about 3 million years__**, to the Pliocene, **__for comparable temperatures__**. The rate of this warming (which is important for the ability of ecosystems to cope) is also highly unusual and unprecedented probably for an even longer time. The last major global warming trend occurred when the last great Ice Age ended between 15,000 and 10,000 years ago: this was a warming of about 5°C over 5,000 years, that is, a rate of only 0.1 °C per century. 52 The expected magnitude and rate of planetary warming is highly likely to come with major risk and impacts in terms of sea level rise (Pliocene sea level was 25-35 meters higher than now due to smaller Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets), extreme events (for example, hurricane activity is expected to increase in a warmer climate), and ecosystem loss. The second part of this paper examined the evidence for the current warming of the planet and discussed what is known about its causes. This part showed that global warming is already a measured and-well-established fact, not a theory. Many different lines of evidence consistently show that most of the observed warming of the past fifty years was caused by human activity. Above all, this warming is exactly what would be expected given the anthropogenic rise in greenhouse gases, and no viable alternative explanation for this warming has been proposed in the scientific literature. Taken together., the very strong **__evidence accumulated from thousands of independent studies, has__** over the past decades **__convinced virtually every climatologist around the world__** (many of whom were initially quite skeptical, including myself) that anthropogenic global warming is a reality with which we need to deal.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gasoline powered cars are the leading cause of global warming</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Shahan 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> August 9, 2010 By Zachary Shahan. Shahan has a B.A. in enviormental studies and a masters in city and regional planning. He is the editor of cleantechinica.com “Cars Cause Global Warming More than Planes, Study Finds” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/08/09/cars-cause-global-warming-more-than-planes-study-finds/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ek</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It is rather well-known now that transportation is one of the leading causes of global warming pollution in the world, </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">and especially in the United States.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NASA actually reported in February that __**motor vehicles are the largest net contributor to global warming pollution**. Now, a__ new __s__cientific finding in the journal Environmental Science & Technology shows that, counter to what most of us believe, driving a car causes more global warming pollution than flying the same distance in a plane. The study, “Specific Climate Impact of Passenger and Freight Transport,” finds that, in the short run, planes cause more global warming because they create more short-lived warming processes at high altitudes. However, when you take ‘everything’ — long- and short-lived gases, aerosols and cloud effects from transportation around the world — into account__, **an average car trip increases global temperatures more than an average flight the same distance. Furthermore, passenger trains and buses cause even four to five times less global warming pollution than automobiles per passenger mile**.__ Of course, there are a lot of intricacies (i.e. the specific car or plane or bus used), but this is the general finding. “As planes fly at high altitudes, their impact on ozone and clouds is disproportionately high, though short lived. Although the exact magnitude is uncertain, the net effect is a strong, short-term, temperature increase,” lead author of the study, Dr. Jens Borken-Kleefeld, said. “Car travel emits more carbon dioxide than air travel per passenger mile__. **As carbon dioxide remains in the atmosphere longer than the other gases, cars have a more harmful impact on climate change in the long term.**__”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">H-cars can massively reduce emissions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Scientific American ‘08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. "Looking at Hydrogen to Replace Gasoline in Our Cars: Scientific American." Looking at Hydrogen to Replace Gasoline in Our Cars: Scientific American. Scientific American, 3 July 2008. Web. 25 June 2012. <http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=can-hydrogen-replace-gas>. PH</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The benefits of ditching</span>__**[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/topic.cfm?id=fossil-fuels|**fossil fuels**]]**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">for hydrogen are many, or course. Burning fossil fuels like coal, natural gas and oil to heat and cool our buildings and run our vehicles takes a heavy toll on the environment, contributing significantly to both local problems like elevated particulate levels and global ones like a warming climate. The only by-product of running a hydrogen-powered fuel cell is oxygen and a trickle of </span>__**[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=is-it-true-that-hot-water|**water**]]**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, neither of which will cause any harm to human health or the environment.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hydrogen economy will end global dependence on oil and lower global warming effects</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rifkin 02</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Jeremy Rifkin is an environmental activist and an economist, the founder of the Beyond Beef Campaign, a campaign consisting of 6 groups, including Green Peace; //The Hydrogen Economy: The Creation of the Word-Wide Energy Web and the Redistribution of Power on Earth//, Penguin Putnam Inc, 2002, pg 10) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The __switch to a hydrogen economy can end the world’s reliance on imported oil__ and can help diffuse the dangerous geopolitical game being played out between Muslim militants (in the Middle East and elsewhere) and Western powers. Equally important, __weaning the world away from a fossil-fuel energy regime will limit CO2 emissions to only twice their preindustrial level and mitigate the effects of global warming on the Earth’s already beleaguered biosphere__. A decentralized, hydrogen-energy regime offers the hope, at least, of connecting the unconnected and empowering the powerless. When that happens, we could entertain the very real possibility of “reglobalization”, this time from the bottom up, and with everyone participating in the process. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hydrogen will establish more sustainable green societies – new kinds of societies will develop</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rifkin 02</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Jeremy Rifkin is an environmental activist and an economist, the founder of the Beyond Beef Campaign, a campaign consisting of 6 groups, including Green Peace; //The Hydrogen Economy: The Creation of the Word-Wide Energy Web and the Redistribution of Power on Earth//, Penguin Putnam Inc, 2002, pg 11) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The fossil-fuel era brought with it new ways of organizing society, including industrial enterprise, nation-state governance, dense urban settlement, and a bourgeois lifestyle. Because it is so different from the various forms of hydrocarbon energy, __hydrogen will give rise to a wholly new type of energy infrastructure__ as well as __to radically different economic institutions and new patterns of human settlement__, just as coal and the steam engine and, later, oil and the internal combustion engine did in the past. When every human being on Earth can be the producer of his or her energy, the very nature of commercial life radically changes. __Economic activity becomes far more widely diffused__. The disaggregation of commerce, in turn, allows for a disaggregation of human settlement. The centralized of power and economies of scale that so characterized the fossil-fuel era inevitably led to a concentration of human population in mega-cities that used up vast amounts of energy and were ultimately unsustainable. The __creation of decentralized hydrogen energy webs connecting end users would make possible the establishment of human settlements that are more widely dispersed and more sustainable in relationship to local and regional environmental resources.__</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Anthropogenic Warmning causes extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Deibel ‘7 (</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Terry L. Deibel, professor of IR at National War College, 2007, Foreign Affairs Strategy)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Finally, **__there is one major existential threat__** to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. It is the threat of **__global warming__** to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. **__Scientists__** worldwide **__have been observing__** the gathering of **__this__** threat **__for three decades__** now, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty. Indeed **__not one of__** more than **__900 articles on climate change__** published **__in refereed scientific journals__** from 1993 to 2003 **__doubted__** that **__anthropogenic warming is occurring__**. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “**__it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals__** of global warming.” **__Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates almost weekly,__** as this sample of newspaper reports shows: **__an international panel predicts “brutal droughts, floods and violent storms__** across the planet over the next century”; **__climate change could__** “literally **__alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria__**”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; the only debate is how much and how serous the effects will be. As the newspaper stories quoted above show, we are already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in more violent storms, spread of disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and threatened inundation of low-lying countries like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But **__the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback from the buildup of water vapor__** in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that **__“humankind’s continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life support system__**. At worst, says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University, “we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to het the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then **__everything will collapse__**.” During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possible end life on this planet. **__Global warming is the post-Cold War era’s equivalent of nuclear winter at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. Over the long run it puts dangers from__** terrorism and **__traditional military challenges to shame. It is a__** **__threat__** not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially **__to the continued existence of life on this planet__**. </span>

=Solvency= 

Government leadership key – the market won’t invest in hydrogen on its own
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NRC 04 (National Research Council, Committee on Alternatives and Strategies for Future Hydrogen Production and Use, National Academy of Engineering ,"The Hydrogen Economy: Opportunities, Costs, Barriers, and R&D Needs, National Academy of Engineering (NAE) Board on Energy and Environmental Systems (BEES), 2004 (119)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the area of infrastructure and delivery there seem to be significant opportunities for making major improvements. The DOE does not yet have a strong program on hydrogen infrastructures.DOE leadership is critical, because the current incentives for companies to make early investments in hydrogen infrastructure are relativelyweak.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Recommendation 10-3a. The Department of Energy program in infrastructure requires greater emphasis and support. The Department of Energy should strive to create better linkages between its seemingly disconnected programs in large-scale and small-scale hydrogen production. The hydrogen infrastructure program should address issues such as storage requirements, hydrogen purity, pipeline materials, compressors, leak detection, and permitting, with the objective of clarifying the conditions under which large-scale and small-scale hydrogen production will become competitive, complementary, or independent. The logistics of interconnecting hydrogen production and end use are daunting, and all current methods of hydrogen delivery have poor energy-efficiency characteristics and difficult logistics. Accordingly, the committee believes that exploratory research focused on new concepts for hydrogen delivery requires additional funding. The committee recognizes that there is little understanding of future logistics systems and new concepts for hydrogen delivery—thus making a systems approach very important.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hydrogen can be used in internal combustion engines – It’s key to transition to a sustainable transport sector </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Balat 08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">– Professor of Biological Sciences @ University of Mahallesi [Mustafa Balat, “Potential importance of hydrogen as a future solution to environmental and transportation problems,” **__International Journal of Hydrogen Energy__** 33 (2008) pg. 4013–4029</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The use of hydrogen as a fuel for transpo</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">rtation and stationary applications **__is receiving much favorable attention as a technical and policy issue__** [154]. **__Hydrogen gas is being explored for__** use in **__IC engines__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">and</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">fuel cell</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> electric **__vehicles__**. **__Fuel cells are in the early stages of commercialization__** and offer a more efficient hydrogen use. **__Many of the world’s major car manufacturers have presented fuel cell vehicles as__** **__demonstrations__**, **__and are__** even **__beginning to lease__** small numbers of **__vehicles to the first selected customers__**. A hydrogen fuel cell vehicle offers advantages over hydrogen-fueled IC engines or fuel cells powered by other fuels [155]. Hydrogen can be used in fuel cells which can achieve a high electric efficiency. The total energy efficiency may even exceed 90% if the waste heat can be used [156]. **__Hydrogen__** and fuel cells are often considered as **__a key technology for future sustainable energy supply__**.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">8. Conclusion - An important reason for interest in alternative transportation fuels is the concern for the greenhouse effect. Greenhouse gas emission reductions should be estimated on an annual basis. Where the levels from year to year vary significantly these should be specified on an annual basis. Hydrogen as a future energy carrier has a number of advantages. **__One of hydrogen’s primary advantages is that it can be produced from a variety of primary resources__**, **__one of which wil__****__l__** most likely **__be readily accessible__** almost **__anywhere in the world__**. **__An__**other **__important advantage of hydrogen over other fuels is that its only major oxidation product is water vapor__**; **__its use__** **__produces no CO2__**. **__Hydrogen can__** **__help reduce carbon emissions, if produced from renewable energy sources__** and nuclear energy. **__The production of hydrogen from fossil fuels causes the coproduction of carbon dioxide, which is assumed to be mainly responsible for__** the so-called **‘‘__greenhouse effect__’’**. **__These processes use non-renewable energy sources to produce hydrogen and are__** **__not sustainable__**. Therefore, renewable energy sources and technologies for hydrogen production will be necessary during coming decades.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hydrogen has good properties as a fuel for IC engines</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> in automobiles. **__It can be used as a fuel directly in an IC engine not much different from the engines used with gasoline__**. The problem is that while hydrogen supplies three times the energy per pound of gasoline it has only one tenth the density when the hydrogen is in a liquid form and very much less when it is stored as a compressed gas. **__The blending of hydrogen and ethanol has been used as an alternative renewable fuel in a carbureted spark ignition engine__**. Pg. 4025 //1ac</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Changing the US to alternative energies will spur China to make more responsible choices about its economic energy base. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Roberts, 2004 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Paul Roberts, 2004, Winner of New York Public Library Helen Bernstein Book Award for Excellence in Journalism, published an in-depth article on peak oil for National Geographic June 2008, “The End of Oil,” pg 325-26)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Similarly, __the U__nited __S__tates __would finally have the moral credibility to win promises of cooperation from India and China__. As James MacKenzie, the former White House energy analyst who now works on climate issues for the Washington-based World Resources Institute, told me, __Chinese climate researchers and policymakers know precisely what China must do to begin to deal with emissions but have thus far been able to use U.S. intransigence as an excuse for their own inaction__. "Whenever you bring up the question of what the Chinese should be doing about climate, they just smile. They ask, 'Why should we in China listen to the United States and take all these steps to protect the climate, when the United States won't take the same steps itself?" __With a nudge from the United States__, argues Chris Flavin, the renewables optimist at World Watch Institute, __China could move away from its__ "destiny" as a __dirty coal energy economy__. Indeed, given China's urgent air quality problems, a growing middle class that will demand environmental quality, and a strategic desire to become a high -tech economy, Flavin says, __Beijing is essentially already under great domestic pressure to look beyond coal__ and is already turning toward alternatives - gas, which is in short supply, but also renewables, especially wind, a resource China has in abundance. Once China's growing expertise in technology and manufacturing and its cheap labor costs are factored in, Flavin says, it has the basis for a large-scale wind industry - something the right push from the West could set in motion. “As China moves forward” asks Flavin, "is it really likely to do something that no other country has ever done: run a modern, high-tech, postindustrial economy on a hundred-year-old energy source?” </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Refueling infrastructure is key to transition to new fuels – Canada proves.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Flynn 2002</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> P.C. Flynn, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Poole Chair in Management for Engineers, University of Alberta, “Commercializing an alternate vehicle fuellessons learned from natural gas for vehicles”, Energy Policy, 30 (2002), pp. 613–619</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In the mid-1980s, unique **__conditions in Canada favored the adoption of__** a compressed natural gas as an **__alternate transportation fuel__**. This work focuses on the **__factors__** that **__limited acceptance of the fuel, and that ultimately held the rate of adoption below a critical level which would enable healthy suppliers to survive in a competitive market. The main barrier was a lack of infrastructure to support converted vehicles. Lack of refueling facilities was particularly critical; failure of existing refueling stations to achieve profitability stalled further investment, which in turn depressed sales of vehicle conversions__**. Other problems in the industry included excessive parts markup by conversion dealers, exaggerated claims for environmental and economic benefits, and poor design of promotional programs. Fundamental shifts in the relative values of oil and natural gas in the late 1980s removed momentum from sales of conversions. **__Major players, who had not achieved profitability, exited the market, and natural gas as a vehicle fuel has since remained on the fringe in Canada and the US. Today, new technologies and driving forces are creating conditions that favor different alternate transportation fuels, including electricity and hydrogen. Many of the issues regarding growth to commercial viability, in particular, the need to build a supporting infrastructure, will be the same as with natural gas.__**</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hydrogen has the potential to create new infrastructure. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">BACAS 06</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(“Hydrogen as an energy carrier” by the Royal Belgian Academy Council of Applied Science in April 2006-- The Royal Belgian Academy Council of Applied Sciences (BACAS) is a Belgian council, which consists of the Flemish Academy Committee for Science and Technology (CAWET) and Walloon Comité de l'Académie pour les Applications de la Science (CAPAS) committees of the Flemish and French Academies of Science in Belgium. BACAS has ten members from the academy and ten from industry. The council studies the impact of technological development on society and provides advice for the Belgian government and leaders of industry.) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The development of a new infrastructure for transports and distribution of hydrogen has been analysed in several reports, in particular those from the IEA [11]. A partial summary of this report including the key R&D areas is given hereafter. __Whether produced from fossil or non-fossil sources,__ __the widespread use of hydrogen will require a new and extensive infrastructure to produce, distribute, store and dispense it as a vehicular fuel__ or for stationary applications, such as electricity generation. __Depending on the source from which hydrogen is produced and the form in which it is delivered, many alternative infrastructures can be envisioned. Tradeoffs in economies, of scale between processes and distribution technologies, and such issues as operating costs, and materials can also favour alternative forms of infrastructure__. </span>