[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
==1nc jackson vanik da== 
**Jackson-Vanik will be repealed and is key to relations**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korotun 4/4 – </span>Lada Korotun Apr 4, 2012 Jackson-Vanik amendment may be gone by summer english.ruvr.ru/2012_04_04/Cold-War-law-russian-trade-world-trade/

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The last remaining “dinosaur” of … </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a metaphor and means something</span>__</span>__.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (end)</span>

**Kills pc**
<span class="Underline">**Parthemore and Rogers 8-1-11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers, Christine Parthemore is a Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program and Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Will Rogers is a Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). “ BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY” Center for a New American Security [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]] NEH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. government must find innovative … two U.S. universities for around 100,000 dollars.</span>


**Political capital is key to repealing Jackson-Vanik**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Stokes 11 – </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bruce Stokes January 26, 2011 An Agenda, If You Can Keep It http://nationaljournal.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/member/daily/an-agenda-if-you-can-keep-it-20110126?mrefid=site_searchAfter years of relative quiescence, Congress actually has a trade agenda in 2011: possible votes on the Korea, Colombia, and Panama trade agreements, and on Russia’s application to join the World Trade Organization.</span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Whether</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline">when, how, and which</span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline">could be an uphill slog.</span>
**Repealing Jackson-Vanik is key to Russian relations**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aslund & Bergsten 10 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ANDERS ASLUND and C. FRED BERGSTEN June 21, 2010 Foreign Policy: Let Russia Join the WTO [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=127981016]]</span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The U</span>__</span>nited <span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__</span>tates <span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">still maintains </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Russian </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">cooperation</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> more than ever.</span>__</span>

<span class="Underline">**Russian relations key to all impacts including** **<span style="font-size: 14pt;">nuclear war</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Allison and Blackwill 10-30**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-11. Graham Allison director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School and a former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration. Robert Blackwill is Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration. They are co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest “ 10 reasons why Russia still matters” Politico [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1011/67178.html]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That central point is that </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline">, in advancing our national interests.</span>

===<span class="DebateUnderline">1nr cards</span>=== 
**Will be repealed – economically and politically desirable**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heatherington 4-24</span>
Anna Heatherington April 24, 2012 Historical and Current Barriers to Russia's WTO Membership http://jurist.org/dateline/2012/04/anna-heatherington-russia-wto.php
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Most believe that the US … and perhaps more democratic society</span>.

**Bipartisan support**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meyer 4-10</span>
Henry Meyer on April 10, 2012 Khodorkovsky Wants U.S. Visa Ban Over Yukos Lawyer Death http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-04-10/khodorkovsky-wants-u-dot-s-dot-visa-ban-over-yukos-lawyer-death
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A bipartisan group of senators</span> … U.S. companies doing business in Russia.

**Will be repealed**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lee 3-28</span>
David Lee Smith March 28, 2012 Caterpillar Is as Healthy as a Horse http://www.fool.com/investing/general/2012/03/28/caterpillar-is-as-healthy-as-a-horse.aspx
<span class="DebateUnderline">The WTO notwithstanding, trade between … </span>include petrochemicals, metals, and steel.

**Obama is placating Magnitsky proponents**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Solash 3-15</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard Solash March 15, 2012 U.S. Senate Mulls Jackson-Vanik Repeal http://www.rferl.org/content/us_senate_jackson-vanik_repeal/24517079.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In a move</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> viewed by some </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the more far-reaching legislation.</span>
**Repeal is key to stabilize the reset and ensure US-Russia relations – star this card**
**Ptashnikov 2-29 –** Andrei Ptashnikov, The Voice of Russia, Feb 29, 212, “What will happen to reset after Russian, U.S. elections?” [[http://english.ruvr.ru/2012_02_29/67183952/]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Launched by U.S. President Barack Obama … </span><span class="DebateUnderline">be preserved after the elections. </span>
**Jackson Vanik empowers Russian hardliners**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baucus 3-15</span>
Sen. Baucus March 15, 2012 Senate Finance Committee Hearing; "Russia's WTO Accession-Implications for the United States,"; Testimony by Sen. Baucus, Max - (D - MT) L/N

When I traveled to Russia last … <span style="font-size: 10pt;">to U.S. competition, ideas and transparency.</span>

**Budget austerity guarantees backlash against the plan.**
**Morello 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lauren, Climatewire and Scientific American, “How Failure of Climate Satellite Sets Back Earth Science, March 7th, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=failure-climate-satellite-sets-back-earth-science, MBIBAS)</span>

__The crash__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Friday </span>__of NASA's …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ... I don't think you can sugarcoat it."</span>

**The plan guarantees a political battle -- costs capital.**
**Boyle,****11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/23/11, Rebecca, Popular Science, “As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather Satellite Gap,” http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap, Sawyer)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amid all this, </span>the country’s<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline">danger of losing its funding.</span>

**Obama is pushing repeal**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 4-25</span>
Reuters April 25, 2012 U.S. eyes easier access to China, Russia markets http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-04-25/classified/sns-rt-us-ustr-singaporebre83p05j-20120425_1_russia-markets-trade-representative-ron-kirk-jackson-vanik
The <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama</span> administration wants China … of the World Trade Organization."

**Obama’s pressuring congress**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 4-25</span>
Reuters Apr 25, 2012 U.S. eyes easier access to China, Russia markets U.S. eyes easier access to China, Russia markets
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Obama administration</span> wants China … of the World Trade Organization."
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">More evidence</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palmer 4-21</span>
Doug Palmer Apr 21, 2012 U.S. hunts for exports in Russian auto parts market http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/04/21/us-usa-russia-autos-idUSBRE83K0J820120421
With Russia on the verge … "permanent normal trade relations" (<span style="font-size: 10pt;">PNTR</span>).



**Capital is real and influential**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beckmann, Political Science at UC Irvine, 11</span> [Matthew N. Beckmann Assistant Professor Department of Political Science & Center for the Study of Democracy University of California, Irvine, A Model of Presidents’ Positive Power in U.S. Lawmaking! Journal of Theoretical Politics January 2011 23: 3-20, Sage Publication Practicing Presidential Leadership: 3151 Social Science Plaza Irvine, CA 92697 ph. 949-856-3291, fax 949-824-8762 [[mailto:beckmann@uci.edu|beckmann@uci.edu]] Vimal Kumar Ph.D. Candidate Department of Economics University of California, Irvine 3151 Social Science Plaza Irvine, CA 92697 ph. 949-824-5788 vimalk@uci.edu]
Fortunately for those inside the … – and when they will not.
**Concludes neg – introducing new agenda items costs capital.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dickinson 9</span> [Matthew, professor of political science at Middlebury College. Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power May 26, 2009 Presidential Power http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/]
What is of more interest … present Sotomayor as his nominee.

**Top priority**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palmer 4-26</span>
Doug Palmer Apr 26, 2012 UPDATE 2-US Republican urges Obama push on Russia trade bill http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/04/26/usa-russia-trade-idUSL2E8FQ5CG20120426
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">With Russia set to enter … trade priorities for the year.</span>

**Key priority for Obama**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wingfield 4-26</span>
Brian Wingfield - Apr 26, 2012 Obama Should Move Quickly on Russia Trade Status, Camp Says http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/obama-should-move-quickly-on-trade-status-for-russia-camp-says.html
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ending Jackson-Vanik is a key … ” on the issue</span>, she said.

**More evidence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasson 4-24</span>
Erik Wasson - 04/24/12 Senate supporters of Russia rights bill press on despite warning http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/223411-senate-supporters-of-russia-rights-bill-press-on-despite-warning
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Passing the Russia trade bill … </span>faced by other WTO members.









==1nc stratosats cp== 
**CP solves the case better -- more accurate and better observation capabilities and cost-efficient.**
**Pankine et al., ‘9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">employees for NASA [Alexey, Zhanqing Li, David Parsons, Michael Purucker, Elliot Weinstock, Warren Wiscombe, Kerry Nock, American Meteorological Society, “STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS,” August, http://denali.gsfc.nasa.gov/research/purucker/pankine_stratsats_bams_2009.pdf]</span>
__Observational systems in atmospheric science, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">power of 1–2 kW (Pankine 2002a).</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Increased launches collapse ozone</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ross and Zittell 2k</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> – </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Both PhDs in relevant fields</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> –</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2000, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, [[http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html]]</span>

<span class="Underline">Rocket emissions have two distinct … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">stratosphere by natural atmospheric circulation.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IMPACT – Extinction</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thomas 06</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, [[http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm]]</span>

<span class="Underline">A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns … </span>shielding—but the stratosphere itself.

===2nc cards=== 
**Stratosats are key to accurate climate data, solves the case.**
**Pankine et al 09 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Alexey, Zhanqing Li, David Parsons, Michael Purucker, Elliot Weinstock, Warren Wiscombe, Kerry Nock, American Meteorological Society, “STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS,” August, [[http://denali.gsfc.nasa.gov/research/purucker/pankine_stratsats_bams_2009.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">EARTH SCIENCE OBSERVATIONS. There are … not require expenditure of energy. </span>

**They’re key to upgrading Earth Science capabilities.**
**Pankine et al 09**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Alexey, Zhanqing Li, David Parsons, Michael Purucker, Elliot Weinstock, Warren Wiscombe, Kerry Nock, American Meteorological Society, “STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS,” August, [[http://denali.gsfc.nasa.gov/research/purucker/pankine_stratsats_bams_2009.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SuMMARY. At present, no investment … perceived are certain to emerge.</span>
=== === 
===1nr card=== 
**C02 is the determining factor—if warming’s inevitable, plan can’t solve ocean biodiversity**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Nicholas </span>**Stern**—Head of the British Government Economic Service—**2007**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Former Head Economist for the World Bank, I.G. Patel Chair at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review”, The report of a team commissioned by the British Government to study the economics of climate change led by Siobhan Peters, Head of G8 and International Climate Change Policy Unit, Cambridge University Press, p. 72)</span>
__Ocean acidification, a...__ __wider impacts__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
==1nc esa cp== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ESA has already developed technology to help monitor the environment.</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sullivan ’11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, news editor for Oil and Gas Investor. A Louisiana native, John has 29 years of experience as a professional journalist, as news, features and business writer and editor at The Daily Advertiser (Lafayette, La.), The Daily Courier (Houma, La.) and The Ruston Daily Leader (Ruston, La.), “Military Technology Adapted for E&P Industry”, Natural Gas Week, February 2011, http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T12362919041&format=GNBFI&sort=BOOLEAN&startDocNo=226&resultsUrlKey=29_T12362919044&cisb=22_T12362919043&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=253166&docNo=230) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the energy industry, the … are on the drawing boards</span>

===2nc cards=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The ESA has the tech do environmental monitoring</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zukerman ’11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Wendy, , “Eye in the sky could watch out for floods”, New Scientist, February 2011, http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T12362919041&format=GNBFI&sort=BOOLEAN&startDocNo=226&resultsUrlKey=29_T12362919044&cisb=22_T12362919043&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=158275&docNo=250) </span>
Satellites could keep an eye … <span class="Underline">Early warning would save lives </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The ESA has advanced earth monitoring tech</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Godoy</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 5-21-20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Julio, Correspondent for IPS, Space Agency Maps Mosquitos to Combat Disease, IPS news, http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=55859) </span>

<span class="Underline">In cases like these, </span>mapping … <span class="Underline">__and the spread of malaria.__ </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ESA has already developed technology to help monitor the environment.</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sullivan ’11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, news editor for Oil and Gas Investor. A Louisiana native, John has 29 years of experience as a professional journalist, as news, features and business writer and editor at The Daily Advertiser (Lafayette, La.), The Daily Courier (Houma, La.) and The Ruston Daily Leader (Ruston, La.), “Military Technology Adapted for E&P Industry”, Natural Gas Week, February 2011, http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T12362919041&format=GNBFI&sort=BOOLEAN&startDocNo=226&resultsUrlKey=29_T12362919044&cisb=22_T12362919043&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=253166&docNo=230) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the energy industry, the … are on the drawing boards</span>










==1nc radioastronamy da== 
**An increase in satellites wrecks Radio Astronomy**
**Goddard et al 04 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Global Science Forum, Goddard: Chair of organization, Spectrum Policy Director UK Radio communications Agency, Makoto Inoue, Director, Nobeyama Radio Observatory National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, (Michael Goddard, Paul A. Vanden Bout: Senior Scientist and former Director U.S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory, William Hatch: Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management National Telecommunications & Information Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, January 2004, “OECD Global Science Forum: Report of the Task Force on Radio Astronomy and the Radio Spectrum,” http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf) DR. H</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The science of </span>__radio astronomy …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">currently allocated to radio astronomy. </span>

**Radio astronomy solves asteroid detection**
**Irvine et. al. 05 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> edited by William M. Irvine, PhD from Harvard, Professor of Astronomy at University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Esperanza Carrasco, PhD, researcher at INAOE, and Itziar Aretxaga, astronomer, astrophysicist, researcher at INAOE, written by joint panels and published jointly by Five College Radio Astronomy Observatory at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and the Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electrónica (INAOE) (2005, “Planetary Science and Astrobiology,” in The Large Millimeter Telescope Book, http://www.lmtgtm.org/book/lmtbook.html) DR. H</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, such </span>__transmitters for mm …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">order to monitor the echo) </span>

**Asteroids cause extinction**
**McGuire 02 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Geohazards at … comet heading in our direction. </span>

===2nc cards=== 

**Probability is irrelevant due to high magnitude and aperiodic strikes**
<span class="Heading3Char">**Brownfield 04** –</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Gaishiled Project (Roger Brownfield, February 26, 2004, “A Million Miles a Day,” Presentation at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth From Asteroids, http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable= Paper&g ID=17092)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once upon a time there was a … expectation... and its attendant fear. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Timeframe framing is bankrupt – evaluate impacts through a one-thousand year lens, focus on short term impacts makes extinction inevitable.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tonn 04**—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ph. D., leader of the Policy Analysis Systems Group at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, a professor in the Department of Political Science, University of Tennessee [Bruce E. Tonn, “Integrated 1000-year planning,” Futures, 36 (2004) 91–108, http://longnow.org/static/djlongnow_media/press/pdf/0200402-Tonn-Integrated1000yearplanning.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">Why tackle 1000 years and not … , challenging and integrated </span>global plans

==1nc strategic gaze k== 
**Information recovered from earth observation satellites rests on a myth of technological objectivity which both turns the case and establishes a gaze of disciplinary power over the populous**
**Litfin 99 –**(Karen, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Washington, Approaches to Global Governance Theory, 87-89)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The use of ERS data … to draw any decisive conclusions.</span>

**These “practices of looking” creates a** **<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">… </span>****__necessary__ as an __everyday practice__.**
**Harris 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Chad Vincent Harris, Lecturer at the University of California-San Diego and Adjunct Professor in the School of Journalism and Media Studies at San Diego State University, holds a Ph.D. in Communication from the University of California-San Diego, 2006 (“The Omniscient Eye: Satellite Imagery, ‘Battlespace Awareness,’ and the Structures of the Imperial Gaze,” //Surveillance & Society//, Volume 4, Issue 1/2, http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/viewFile/3457/3420, Accessed 10-05-2011, p. 101-103) CB</span>


__Military imagery intelligence systems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and … </span>**__interpellated in a dominant imperial gaze.__**

**Disciplinary powers turn humans into machines who act as the political tells them too, this eliminates all freedom and justifies mass atrocities.**
**Clifford 01** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">–</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael Clifford is a professor of philosophy at the Mississippi State University. He holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Vanderbilt University. "Political Genealogy After Foucault." Routledge Publications, 2001. pg. 48) CB</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The chief function of … </span>__intrinsic to most modern institutions.__

**The alternative: __vote negative to … authority of the Strategic Gaze__.**

**Giving up the drive for a transcendent perspective is key to dismantle the dominant discourse.**

**Harris 11**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> — Chad Vincent Harris, Lecturer at the University of California-San Diego and Adjunct Professor in the School of Journalism and Media Studies at San Diego State University, holds a Ph.D. in Communication from the University of California-San Diego, 2011 (“Technology and Transparency as Realist Narrative,” //Science, Technology, & Human Values//, Volume 36, Number 1, January, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via SAGE Publications Online, p. 96-97) CB</span>




__Satellite imagery carries its own … make administrative power more ‘‘transparent.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’’20</span>

==1nc warming adv== 
**1. no impact**
**WSJ 1/27** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">signed by 16 scientists: Claude Allegre, former director of the Institute for the Study of the Earth, University of Paris; J. Scott Armstrong, cofounder of the Journal of Forecasting and the International Journal of Forecasting; Jan Breslow, head of the Laboratory of Biochemical Genetics and Metabolism, Rockefeller University; Roger Cohen, fellow, American Physical Society; Edward David, member, National Academy of Engineering and National Academy of Sciences; William Happer, professor of physics, Princeton; Michael Kelly, professor of technology, University of Cambridge, U.K.; William Kininmonth, former head of climate research at the Australian Bureau of Meteorology; Richard Lindzen, professor of atmospheric sciences, MIT; James McGrath, professor of chemistry, Virginia Technical University; Rodney Nichols, former president and CEO of the New York Academy of Sciences; Burt Rutan, aerospace engineer, designer of Voyager and SpaceShipOne; Harrison H. Schmitt, Apollo 17 astronaut and former U.S. senator; Nir Shaviv, professor of astrophysics, Hebrew University, Jerusalem; Henk Tennekes, former director, Royal Dutch Meteorological Service; Antonio Zichichi, president of the World Federation of Scientists, Geneva – (1/27/12, 16 scientists “No Need to Panic About Global Warming” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204301404577171531838421366.html]]) CB</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps </span>__the most inconvenient fact …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the small effect of CO2.</span>
__The lack of …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and improve our environment, but it makes no sense at all to back expensive programs that divert resources from real needs and are based on alarming but untenable claims of "incontrovertible" evidence. </span>

**No policy action – <span class="Underline">Obama</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Cappiello 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dina Cappiello is an award-winning environmental journalist who follows the story looking for specific, factual information about environmental problems that communities need in order to push for change. “Gore: On Global Warming, Obama Has Changed Little” 6/22 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory?id=13900390]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Democrats' leading environmental messenger, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">into an Oscar-winning documentary.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. leadership in adaptation fails – taking legitimate action against emissions is critical</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shepard 11</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Don, Natural Resources/Water Resources University Laboratory Teacher and Former Financial Representative [“US Environmental Policy and Leadership,” May 22, http://www.brighthub.com/environment/science-environmental/articles/39623.aspx] WSX</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Moving Forward</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There are numerous … the Senate</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. U.S. environmental leadership can still be the beacon it needs to be with a strong message from our lawmakers. </span>**

<span class="Underline">**Can’t solve -- warming and data won’t motivate action, and GOP is opposed to climate migration action.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kayyem, 12-1-11** [Juliette, “The Kiribati Syndrome,” http://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2011/12/01/the-kiribati-syndrome/KeoKHLoTIKAfF01qtgTrWJ/story.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THIS WEEK in Durban, South … </span>mucking up<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Kiribati syndrome may. </span>

**No War:**
**A) Climate migration doesn’t cause conflict.**
**Barnett et al., ‘9**
[Jon, Australian Research Council Fellow and reader in the Department of Resource Management and Geography at the University of Melbourne University and Michael Webber, Department of Resource Management and Geography, The University of Melbourne, March, “For the Accommodating Migration to Promote Adaptation to Climate Change,” The Commission on Climate Change and Development, [[http://www.ccdcommission.org/Filer/documents/Accommodating%20Migration.pdf]]]
__The impacts of climate change … the risk of violent conflict__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==1nc china co-op adv== 
**Relations are resilient despite tons of underlying mistrust and disagreement.**
**Lieberthal, 4-10**-12
[Kenneth, director of the John L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution, “U.S., China must overcome mutual distrust,” http://edition.cnn.com/2012/04/10/opinion/lieberthal-china-us-relations/]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(CNN) -- </span>__The United States …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to date are not working.</span>

**Strong cooperation is impossible—but total collapse is impossible, either way there’s no impact**
**Blackwill 2009** – former US ambassador to India and US National Security Council Deputy for Iraq, former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (Robert D., RAND, “The Geopolitical Consequences of the World Economic Recession—A Caution”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/occasional_papers/2009/RAND_OP275.pdf, WEA)

Alternatively, will the current world … a cross-strait crisis and confrontation.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Status quo solves cyber-attacks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Prince 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – (8/25/2010, Brian, Energy Week IT Security and Network Security News, “Defense Department Confirms Critical Cyber-attack”, http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Security/Defense-Department-Confirms-Critical-Cyber-Attack-551206/) CB</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to details .. .</span>__and its economic security."__






=Round 2= 
==1ac inherency== 
<span class="Underline">**Newest DOD budget cuts gut ISR capabilities** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Aviation Week 4/20 –** Aerospace Daily & Defense Report, news agency for space (4/20/12, David A. Fulghum, “U.S. Navy And Air Force ISR Plans Jeopardized” [[http://www.aviationweek.com/Article.aspx?id=/article-xml/asd_04_20_2012_p03-02-449820.xml]]) CB</span>

<span class="Underline">Reversing a trend of …</span> programs<span class="Underline">.</span>

==<span class="Underline">1ac plan</span>== 
The United States federal government should substantially develop Airborne Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance satellites using laser communication technology beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

==1ac navy== 
**Current MDA security efforts fail—ISR solves**
**D’Agostino 11** – Director Defense Capabilities and Management at the Government Accountability Office (Davi M., “INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE: DOD Needs a Strategic, Risk-Based Approach to Enhance Its Maritime Domain Awareness,” June, Government Accountability Office, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA545357]])

__Maritime security threats to the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">which are identified in figure 1. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Two scenarios**</span>
<span class="Underline">**First, Maritime Domain Awareness is vital to prevent successful EMP attacks**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cooper and Pfaltzfraff 10 –** </span>Dr. Henry F. Cooper was Chief US Negotiator at the Geneva Defense and Space Talks with the Soviet Union (1985-1989) and was appointed the first civilian Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) director in 1990. Ambassador Cooper is Chairman of High Frontier, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, and of Applied Research Associates.. Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr., is President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies, The Fletcher School, Tufts University. He has advised key officials on military strategy, defense modernization, proliferation and counterproliferation issues, and arms control policy. He has lectured widely at government, industry, and academic forums in the United States and overseas. He has served on the International Security Advisory Board (ISAB), U.S. State Department. He is the Co-Chairman of the Independent Working Group. Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (Dr. Henry F. Cooper, Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff Jr, “Countering the EMP Threat, The Role of Missile Defense” [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGWhitePaper.pdf]], DR. H)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As noted above, </span><span class="Underline">**early warning …** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">that has the intercept opportunity.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Navy has devoted … corresponding command capabilities.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Threat’s expanding in the sea now and attack causes extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Hannis 2/16 –** American Foreign Policy Council, Lt Col in the Air Force, was the Military Legislative Assistant to Rep. Randy Forbes, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee’s Readiness Subcommittee Executive Director at Etherton and Associates, a defense consulting firm (Eric Hannis, February 16, 2012, “Defense Dossier”, [[http://www.afpc.org/files/february2012.pdf]]) Bwang</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The stakes are grave indeed. </span><span class="Underline">**…** </span>trying to acquire nuclear weapons.

**Attacks also kill the economy**
**E&E 8/26 –** the leading source for comprehensive, daily coverage of environmental and energy policy and markets. (Environment & Energy Publishing News, August 26, 2011, “Electromagnetic Pulse: Effects on the U.S. Power Grid”, [[http://www.eenews.net/assets/2011/08/26/document_gw_02.pdf]], DR. H)

__The nation’s power grid is … for the average residential customer.__

**Economic decline results in global war**
**Royal 10** – Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the DOD, M.Phil, Candidate at the University of New South Wales (Jedidiah, “Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span>**__periods …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**These attacks collapse the grid**
**Vergano 10 –** Reporter at USA Today, Graduate of Harvard (Dan Vergano, October 27, 2010, “One EMP burst and the world goes dark”, [[http://www.usatoday.com/tech/science/2010-10-26-emp_N.htm]], DR. H)

__The sky erupts. Cities …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the House of Representatives.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That causes nuclear meltdowns**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cappiello 11 –** reporter for the Associated Press (Dina Cappiello, March 29, 2011, “AP IMPACT: Long Blackouts Pose Risk to US Reactors”, [[http://www.postandcourier.com/news/2011/mar/29/ap-impact-long-blackouts-pose-risk-us-reactors/?print]]) DR. H</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — Long before the nuclear … .., further solidified that nuclear reactors might have to keep the core cool for a longer period without power. After 9/11, the commission issued regulations requiring that plants have portable power supplies for relief valves and be able to manually operate an emergency reactor cooling system when batteries go out. </span>

**Meltdowns cause extinction**
**Wasserman 02 –** (Harvey, Senior Editor – Free Press, Earth Island Journal, Spring, www.earthisland.org/eijournal/new_articles.cfm?articleID=457&journalID=63)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>intense radioactive heat within … **generations** must be shut down.

**Second, plan solves cooperation in the South China Sea**
**Arthur et al 07** – Admiral, written with the Lexington Institute’s Naval Strike forum which included many PhDs and retired high ranking naval officials (Stanley R. Arthur, “Securing the Seas: The Logic of Maritime Domain Awareness”, http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/library/resources/documents/Defense/the-logic-of-maritime-domain-awareness.pdf)

__One region__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> where arrangements </span>__for …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Western Pacific and Indian Ocean.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Conflict in the South China Sea is coming now</span>**
**Glaser 4/11** – Senior fellow with the Freeman Chair in China Studies and a senior associate with the Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies, consultant for various U.S. Departments of Defense and State, member of the Defense Department’s Defense Policy Board China Panel in 1997 (Bonnie S. Glaser, April 11, 2012, “Armed Clash in the South China Sea”, [[http://www.cfr.org/east-asia/armed-clash-south-china-sea/p27883]]” Bwang

**__The risk of conflict in …__** __China Sea from escalating militarily.__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">South China Sea war goes Nuclear—only cooperation can solve</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wittner 11/30 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– Professor of History emeritus at SUNY/Albany (Lawrence Wittner, November 30, 2011, “Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-war-china_b_1116556.html)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">While nuclear weapons exist, there … working to encourage these policies. </span>__

==__1ac ncw__== 
**Increased ISR capabilities are key for Net Centric Warfare**
**Cebrowski 05 –** Office of the Secretary of Defense, Office of Force Transformation (A.K. Cebrowski, “The Implementation of Network-Centric Warfare”, [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/transformation/oft_implementation_ncw.pdf]], DR. H)

__Information technology **advances in** the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the conduct of military operations.</span>

**Specifically airborne ISR is critical**
**Goure 09 –** PhD in International Relations and Russian Studies, Vice President with the Lexington Institute, a nonprofit public-policy research organization headquartered in Arlington, Virginia (Daniel Goure, August 3, 2009, “New Plan Shows Air Force Gets It On Airborne ISR,” http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/new-plan-shows-air-force-gets-it-on-airborne-isr)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the most important … </span>__the near and medium-term.__

**US isn’t keeping pace with global NCW – development is critical to heg and preventing massive instability – empirical proof.**
**Arquilla ’10** – professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School and author of Worst Enemy: The Reluctant Transformation of the American Military (John, “The New Rules of War,” March/April, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war?page=0,5]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nothing could be further from … </span>__it,__ __saving the world from darkness.__


**NCW key to information superiority -- deescalates conflicts.**
<span class="Underline">**Alberts et al., ‘00**</span>
[David S. Alberts, Director, Research OASD, Previously Director, Information Systems Engineering, Director, Advanced Concepts, Technologies, and Information Strategies (ACTIS), Deputy Director of the Institute for National Strategic Studies, and the executive agent for DoD’s Command and Control Research Program, John J. Garstka, Scientific and Technical Advisor, Directorate for C4 Systems, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Frederick P. Stein, served 27 years in the U.S. Army supporting tactical and operational level forces, “NETWORK CENTRIC WARFARE: Developing and Leveraging Information Superiority,” http://www.dodccrp.org/files/Alberts_NCW.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Clearly, </span>__information superiority__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a comparative … </span>__whose value is time sensitive.__

**U.S. hegemonic decline causes global great-power war**
**Zhang & Shi 11** – Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace; Lin Shi, Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and consultant for the World Bank, January 22, 2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” East Asia Forum, online: http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

__Over the past two decades, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**Social science proves that the alternative to hegemony is great power war**
**Wohlforth 09** – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The upshot is a near scholarly … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">tend to be zero sum</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.9</span>

**Recent DoD policy shift makes Net-Centric War inevitable—it’s just a matter of effectiveness**
**Groh 10 –** Professor of Information and Technology in Warfare in the Department of Distance Education at the U.S. Army War College, retired Armor Officer, D.Sc., Robert Morris University (Jeffrey Groh, July 2010, “Chapter 23: The Network-Centric Warfare Journey: Realizing the Power of Information,” http://www.scribd.com/doc/63365888/4thEditionStategyofWarSSI)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now that the literature review … </span>**__proceed with NCW, but how.__**

==1ac solvency== 
**Laser technology is key to overcome Radio frequency problems—specifically this includes interference issues**
**Mazalkova 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Communication and Information Systems Department at the University of Defence (Marketa Mazalkova, August 2008, “The Laser Satellites Communications and Laser Noises”, [[http://www.wseas.us/e-library/transactions/communications/2008/27-726.pdf]], DR. H)</span>

__The optical space communications are a … interest in space laser communication__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2 The laser satellite system</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The optical communication systems become … </span>__, tracking and data transfer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (figure 1). </span>

<span class="Underline">**Only satellite based AISR is able to provide full coverage**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Losada and Gopal 11 –** Senior Directors, Hughes Defense and Intelligence Systems Division (Daniel Losada, Dr. Rajeev Gopal, May 2011, “The next broadband frontier: Airborne satellite platforms”, [[http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=549196114]], DR. H)</span>

<span class="Underline">Domestic and international ..</span> detection.

<span class="Underline">**Satellites are needed for ISR capabilities—they allow unrestricted access, verification, warning systems, and consistent intelligence**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pike 03 –** Federation of American Scientists website (John Pike, last cite from May 2003, “Section IV: Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition”, [[http://www.fas.org/spp/military/docops/army/ref_text/chap07d.htm]], DR. H)</span>

<span class="Underline"> a. </span>Space based sensors on … <span class="Underline">the Battlefield (</span>IPB<span class="Underline">) is attained. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Lasers are key to overcome RF issues—specifically solve satellite jamming**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Muholland and Cadogan 02 –** Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering at Villanova University (J.E. Muholland, S.A. Cadogan, “Intersatellite laser crosslinks”, [[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?arnumber=532260]], DR. H)</span>

Intersatellite laser crosslinks<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ISL) </span><span class="Underline">provide a … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">throughput and reduce acquisition time. </span>


==2ac ncw advantage== 

<span class="Underline">NCW is key to success in asymmetric conflicts -- necessary to retain a strategic advantage. </span>
<span class="Underline">Alberts et al., ‘00</span>
[David S. Alberts, Director, Research OASD, Previously Director, Information Systems Engineering, Director, Advanced Concepts, Technologies, and Information Strategies (ACTIS), Deputy Director of the Institute for National Strategic Studies, and the executive agent for DoD’s Command and Control Research Program, John J. Garstka, Scientific and Technical Advisor, Directorate for C4 Systems, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Frederick P. Stein, served 27 years in the U.S. Army supporting tactical and operational level forces, “NETWORK CENTRIC WARFARE: Developing and Leveraging Information Superiority,” http://www.dodccrp.org/files/Alberts_NCW.pdf]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">All of these changes have profound …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> other parts of the process</span>__

Doesn’t force speed of command -- only enables it when its helpful.
<span class="Underline">Alberts et al., ‘00</span>
[David S. Alberts, Director, Research OASD, Previously Director, Information Systems Engineering, Director, Advanced Concepts, Technologies, and Information Strategies (ACTIS), Deputy Director of the Institute for National Strategic Studies, and the executive agent for DoD’s Command and Control Research Program, John J. Garstka, Scientific and Technical Advisor, Directorate for C4 Systems, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Frederick P. Stein, served 27 years in the U.S. Army supporting tactical and operational level forces, “NETWORK CENTRIC WARFARE: Developing and Leveraging Information Superiority,” http://www.dodccrp.org/files/Alberts_NCW.pdf]
<span class="Underline">Myth </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">11: </span><span class="Underline">NCW will result in …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> panacea or an unmitigated good. </span>


==__2ac t human__== 

**CI - Space exploration includes telepresence and operation**
**Lester 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy, providing science and management policy, and is representing the astronomical community on the Lunar Exploration Roadmap effort he serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC), which reviews and provides advisory oversight and coordination of both space and ground-based astronomical research at NASA, NSF and DOE (Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” //Space Policy// Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What to do? There are few … </span>__longer a particularly relevant distinction__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**their interpretation doesn’t reflect current space policy, and is inconsistent with NASA’s own Vision for Space Exploration**
**Lester and Robinson, 9** –*Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy, providing science and management policy, and is representing the astronomical community on the Lunar Exploration Roadmap effort he serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC), which reviews and provides advisory oversight and coordination of both space and ground-based astronomical research at NASA, NSF and DOE AND **assistant professor of history at the University of Hartsford. His teaching and research fields include the history of exploration, history of American culture and science, and the history of globalization (Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” //Space Policy// Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243, Science Direct)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The word ‘‘exploration’’ threads its way … </span>__technology is rendering increasingly absurd__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==2ac deterrence k== 

**Positivism is best - its self-reflective, recognizes there’s no absolute truth, and uses observable regularities to inform action – focus on epistemology causes a retreat from policy relevance**
**Houghton ’08** – Associate Professor of International Relations Theory at the University of Central Florida (David Patrick, “Positivism ‘vs’ Postmodernism: Does Epistemology Make a Difference?” International Politics (2008) 45)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As long ago as 1981 … </span><span class="Style1">the </span>international relations<span class="Style1"> scene </span>today<span class="Style1">.</span>

**War is at its lowest level in history because of US primacy---best statistical studies prove heg solves war because it makes democratic peace resilient globalization sustainable---it’s the deeper cause of proximate checks against war**
**Owen 11** John M. Owen Professor of Politics at University of Virginia PhD from Harvard "DON’T DISCOUNT HEGEMONY" Feb 11 www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew </span>__Mack and his colleagues …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">support for liberal democracy remains strong.</span>

**The lack of deterrence is the most reliable predictor of war – instead of focusing on root causes, we should look to variables that directly affect decision-making, and deterrence is the most important factor**
**Sharp, 8** – adjunct professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center (Gary, “Democracy and Deterrence. Foundations for an Enduring World Peace,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA493031&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moore concludes in Solving the War Puzzle …</span> __responding to a totality of incentives.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 43</span>


==2ac jackson vanik da== 

**Won’t be repealed – anti-russia sentiment and Obama comments**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 4-26</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Reuters 26 Apr 2012 U.S. lawmaker urges Obama push on Russia trade bill http://www.cnbc.com/id/47191558</span>
Camp noted the PNTR legislation … our number one geopolitical foe."

**Pc not key**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Needham 4-26</span>
Vicki Needham - 04/26/12 House panel aims for June hearing on Russia trade House panel aims for June hearing on Russia trade
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The House Ways and Means Committee … the trade bill through </span>by summer.

**Winners win**
**CAF 11** – Campaign for America’s Future – the strategy center for the progressive movement in the united states, operates the “The Institute for America's Future”a 501(c)(3) non-partisan, non-profit organization, they picked up this particular post from “fake consultant” a frequent political interlocutor who chooses to publish anonymously and has been publishing under this name since 2007 (Center for America’s Future Blog, January 26, 2011 “On Done Deals, Or, Sometimes Losing Is How You Win”, http://www.ourfuture.org/blog-entry/2011010426/done-deals-or-sometimes-losing-how-you-win)JCP

__Right off the bat, you …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> results until </span>__further down the road__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Growing consensus in congress that Magnitsky must be linked**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ivanov 4-27</span>
Eugene Ivanov April 27, 2012 Magnitsky for Jackson-Vanik: A fair trade? Magnitsky for Jackson-Vanik: A fair trade?
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In recent weeks, the Magnitsky bill …</span> and granting Russia PNTR status.
**means the disad can’t solve**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ivanov 4-27</span>
Eugene Ivanov April 27, 2012 Magnitsky for Jackson-Vanik: A fair trade? Magnitsky for Jackson-Vanik: A fair trade?
<span class="DebateUnderline">Reiterating Moscow’s known opposition … </span>what precisely this “reaction” will be.

**Issues are compartmentalized – political capital has no effect on legislation**
**Dickinson, 09** – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As for Sotomayor, from here the path … cannot be measured through legislative boxscores.</span>

**No material effect on relation – doesn’t require repeal**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Verona 3-29</span>
Ed Verona is president and CEO of the U.S.-Russia Business Council March 29, 2012 The True Cost of Jackson-Vanik http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/the-true-cost-jackson-vanik-6702
Thirty-eight years later, the Soviet Union … <span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> scope of that </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">law</span>.

**Warming tipping points inevitable – too late**
**NPR 9** (1/26, Global Warming Is Irreversible, Study Says, All Things Considered, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99888903)

__Climate change is essentially irreversible …__ sea level rise and drought.


**Economic decline has no effect on Russian foreign policy**
**Blackwill 2009** – former US ambassador to India and US National Security Council Deputy for Iraq, former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (Robert D., RAND, “The Geopolitical Consequences of the World Economic Recession—A Caution”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/occasional_papers/2009/RAND_OP275.pdf, WEA)

Now on to Russia. Again, … way __by__ the __economic crisis.__

=Round 3= 
==1nc framework== 
THIRD—predictability, they create a race to the bottom, it’s impossible for us to prepare or research when the basis for voting aff can change round to round based on personal experiences or a litany of ways to argue about debate norms. This is a prerequisite to any of their offense and meaningful debate--
**Shively, 2000** – Assistant Prof Political Science at Texas A&M
(Ruth Lessl, Partisan Politics and Political Theory, p. 181-2)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The requirements given thus far … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">some basic agreement or harmony. </span>

**FOURTH—our model of policy debate is good – critical approaches can’t resolve real world problems like poverty, racism and war and doom their project to irrelevance**
**McClean 01** – Adjunct Professor of Philosophy, Molloy College, New York
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(David E., “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” Presented at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy, www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Yet for some reason, at … </span>__for the so-called "managerial class."__

===2nc cards=== 
**Our model of debate is process, not product – decision-making is learned in a safe space of competing thought experiments**
**Hanghoj 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://static.sdu.dk/mediafiles/Files/Information_til/Studerende_ved_SDU/Din_uddannelse/phd_hum/afhandlinger/2009/ThorkilHanghoej.pdf Thorkild Hanghøj, Copenhagen, 2008 Since this PhD project began in 2004, the present author has been affiliated with DREAM (Danish Research Centre on Education and Advanced Media Materials), which is located at the Institute of Literature, Media and Cultural Studies at the University of Southern Denmark. Research visits have taken place at the Centre for Learning, Knowledge, and Interactive Technologies (L-KIT), the Institute of Education at the University of Bristol and the institute formerly known as Learning Lab Denmark at the School of Education, University of Aarhus, where I currently work as an assistant professor. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Joas’ re-interpretation of Dewey’s … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">processes</span> of <span style="font-size: 10pt;">problem-based scenarios.</span>


==<span class="Underline"> 1nc t-increase</span>== 
**“Substantial increase” in the … means __at least 500 million dollars__.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chase 3</span> (Brian, US Space Agent, March-April 2003, “Washington Update: The Columbia Investigation,” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume15/v15n2/contents/v15n2f1.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Columbia was lost just … </span><span class="Underline">to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> nearly </span>__$<span class="Underline">15.5 billion</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in FY04. </span>

**And “increase” means to become … larger or greater in __quantity__.**
Encarta Online Dictionary. 2006 ["Increase." <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741]]</span> //STRONG]
in•crease<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ in krss ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">transitive … </span>in number, quantity, or degree
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">noun (plural in•creas•es)</span>

===2nc cards=== 
**Alternative interpretations are even more ambiguous and destroy limits**
**Stark 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – patent attorney from Tennessee (Stephen, “NOTE: KEY WORDS AND TRICKY PHRASES: AN ANALYSIS OF PATENT DRAFTER'S ATTEMPTS TO CIRCUMVENT THE LANGUAGE OF 35 U.S.C., Journal of Intellectual Property Law, Fall, 1997 5 J. Intell. Prop. L. 365, lexis) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In patent law, ambiguity of claim language necessarily results in uncertainty in the scope of protection. This uncertainty impairs all of society--the patentee, the competitor, and the public. The process of determining a particular meaning to define a term in a patent claim may result in ambiguity.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Ordinary Meaning. First, words … </span>__protection__ <span class="hit">__particularly hard to determine__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The etymology … of the word is __quantitative__.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Etymology 2010</span> [Word Origin & History; “substantial” Online Etymology Dictionary, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/substantial //STRONG]//
//Substantial: <span style="font-size: 8pt;">mid-14c., "</span>ample, sizeable<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," … </span><span class="Underline">existence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">" is from late 14c.</span>//

//**Even if they are qualitative, “… development” must include __actual activities__.**//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SDPA 05</span> (Space Development Promotion Act of the Republic of Korea, Journal of Space Law, 33, 5-31, http://www.spacelaw.olemiss.edu/library/space/Korea/Laws/33jsl175.pdf)//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Article 2 (Definitions) </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Definitions of terms used in this … processed or applied information. </span>//

//**An**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">d “… space exploration” must be __physical__.</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Columbia Encyclopedia 08</span> [Space exploration; The Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition; http://www.encyclopedia.com/topic/space_exploration.aspx// STRONG]
Space exploration the investigation of … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">), and spacecraft with human crews. </span>

==1nc heg da== 
**Command of the commons is key to U.S. dominance**
<span class="citation">**Posen 03** – Director of the MIT Security Studies Program , Barry R., Professor of Political Science at MIT, Member of the CFR, "//Command of the Commons: The Military Foundation of U.S. Hegemony//." International Security. Vol. 28, No. 1 (Summer 2003): 5-46.</span>

__The U.S. military currently possesses command …__ <span style="color: #292526; font-size: 8pt;">Britain’s formal and informal empire.</span>

**War is at its lowest level in history because of US primacy---best statistical studies prove heg solves war because it makes democratic peace resilient globalization sustainable---it’s the deeper cause of proximate checks against war**
**Owen 11** John M. Owen Professor of Politics at University of Virginia PhD from Harvard "DON’T DISCOUNT HEGEMONY" Feb 11 www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew </span>__Mack and his colleagues …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… for liberal democracy remains strong.</span>

===1nr cards=== 
**Positivism is best**
**Houghton ’08** – Associate Professor of International Relations Theory at the University of Central Florida (David Patrick, “Positivism ‘vs’ Postmodernism: Does Epistemology Make a Difference?” International Politics (2008) 45)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As long ago as 1981, Yale … </span><span class="Style1">the </span>international relations<span class="Style1"> scene </span>today<span class="Style1">.</span>


**Heg prevents extinction and is the strongest correlate of prosperity**
**Barnett 2011** – Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College, worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the DOD (3/7, Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>, credit to LDK)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Events in Libya are a further … </span>__deaths__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">from state-based conflicts.</span>

**Heg is key to decease excess American interventionalism**
**Kagan and Kristol, 2000**
(Robert and William, “Present Dangers”, Kagan is a Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and Kristol is the editor of The Weekly Standard, and a political analyst and commentator, page 13-14 )

It is worth pointing out, … it rouses itself into action.


**Alternative to heg collapse is net worse—causes rampant nationalism which is the impact to their Layne evidence**
**Brzezinski, ‘12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Zbigniew, Robert E. Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies, scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, national security advisor under Jimmy Carter, “After America: How does the world look in an age of U.S. decline? Dangerously unstable,” Jan/Feb, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">ignited by cross-border incidents.</span>

**Reject their spanos evidence—he’s incoherent**
**Bryant 97** [John, Professor of English at Hofstra. “Review: Democracy, Being, and the Art of Becoming America” College English, Vol. 59, No. 6. (Oct., 1997), pp. 705-711]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As bracing as </span> Spanos's<span class="underline0"> subversive </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Spanos finds a more effective voice.</span>

**The lack of deterrence is the most reliable predictor of war – instead of focusing on root causes, we should look to variables that directly affect decision-making, and deterrence is the most important factor**
**Sharp, 8** – adjunct professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center (Gary, “Democracy and Deterrence. Foundations for an Enduring World Peace,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA493031&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moore concludes in Solving the War Puzzle that war arises from the interaction of all three Waltzian levels (individual, state or national, and international), whereas some proponents of the democratic peace principle focus only on government structures to explain war and some traditional realists focus only on the international system. Both realists and democratic peace proponents tend to emphasize institutions and systems, whereas Moore reminds us that people—leaders—decide to pursue war:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wars are not simply accidents. … </span>__responding to a totality of incentives.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 43</span>

==1nc neolib adv== 
**No exploitation of space now – it’s way too expensive**
**Wasser and Jobes 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Alan, Chairman … enterprise in space,” //Space Policy// 24)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, </span>neither private enterprise nor … <span class="DebateUnderline">with regard to space settlement.</span>


**Can’t solve – people will make territory claims anyways**
**Wasser and Jobes 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Alan, Chairman … enterprise in space,” //Space Policy// 24)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left;">The falsehood of the proposition … /or recognize the settlement’s claims.</span></span>

**private exploration of space would be multinational. All countries would be included, bridging the rich poor divide**
**Wasser and Jobes 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Alan, Chairman … enterprise in space,” //Space Policy// 24)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Some</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of those who have … </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">a U.S. attempt to appropriate the Moon.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">71</span></span></span>

**Cap isn’t the root cause—human greed is.**
**Aberdeen, 03** (Richard, “THE WAY: A Theory of Root Cause and Solution”, http://richardaberdeen.com/essays/Etheway.html)

__A view shared by many …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… and proscribed holidays have been grudgingly capitulated to by greedy capitalist masters as necessary concessions to avoid profit-crippling strikes and outright revolution.</span>

**Capitalism is consistent with ethics – cross cultural studies demonstrate that breakdowns in capitalism are due to do the unethical behavior of bad actors – not capitalism itself**
**Bhagwati, 09** - University Professor and Senior Fellow in International Economics at Columbia University (Jagdish, World Affairs, “Feeble Critiques: Capitalism's Petty Detractors,” Fall, http://www.worldaffairsjournal.org/2009%20-%20Fall/full-Bhagwati-Fall-2009.html)

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Inevitably, the crisis on … than on his own flaws?</span>

**Comprehensive studies prove that capitalism solves global war—alternate explanations of expanding peace fail**
**Gartzke, 05** - associate professor of political science at Columbia University and author of a study on economic freedom and peace contained in the 2005 Economic Freedom of the World Report (Erik, “Future Depends on Capitalizing on Capitalist Peace,” 10/18, Windsor Star, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5133)

<span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">With terrorism </span>____achieving "global reach" … purpose__</span>__.__ The risk today is that faulty analysis and anti-market activists may distract the developed nations from this historic opportunity__.__


**The spread of capitalism is vital to sustaining technological innovation that prevents environmental collapse**
**Barker, 2k** – electrical engineer, and manager of corporate communications for the Electric Power Research Institute and former industrial economist and staff author at SRI International and as a commercial research analyst at USX Corporation (Brent, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability.” EPRI Journal, Summer, infotrac)

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">The rate of innovation is … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… innovation in the private sector is strongly encouraged and supported by public policy.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The challenges of bringing the … world. That future begins now.</span>

**Prefer our evidence—our methodology is superior**
**Weede, 04** – professor of sociology at the University of Bonn, Germany, In Winter 1986-87, he was Visiting Professor of International Relations at the Bologna Center of The Johns Hopkins University. (Erich, “BALANCE OF POWER, GLOBALIZATION, AND THE CAPITALIST PEACE,” http://www.fnf.org.ph/downloadables/Balance%20of%20Power,%20Globalization%20and%20Capitalist%20Peace.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If one does research or …</span>
<span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">, and unsystematically evaluated empirical evidence</span>__</span>__.__









=Round 4= 
==1ac inherency== 
**Current Space Situational Awareness acquisition efforts fail**
**Chaplain ’11** –Director of Acquisition and Sourcing Management at the Government Accountability Office (Cristina T, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf, RBW)

__Despite recent investments, existing SSA …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">challenges and risks they face. </span>

**This is due to ground sensor failure, high res data, and inability to see small objects**
**Ziegler ’07** – Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Potential Threat</span>
__Europe, Russia, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commission, and a host of others. </span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1ac plan</span>== 

The United States federal government should develop and launch the distributed real-time awareness global network in space in constellation format.

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1ac hegemony</span>== 
**SSA capability gaps make attacks inevitable**
**Morgan ’10** – senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation (Forrest E, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment,” RAND Corporation, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf, RBW)

__First-strike instability is made … -strike stability in that domain__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 18</span>

**SSA key to early warning and attribution**
**Weist ’07** – Major USAF (Todd, “Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030,” April, Air Command and Staff College, Air University, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA515444)

__With small satellite technology available … other countries’ potentially threatening satellites.__

**The plan’s key to war-fighting capabilities**
**Burke ’06** – Lt. Col., Deputy Director in the Missile Defense Agency with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan W, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor,” April 17, Air War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA476999&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf/]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Implications of the Erosion of … </span>
__… satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.57 Pg. 8-12 </span>

**Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction---multipolarity is inevitable but absolute US power smooths the transition and is empirically correlated to perpetual great-power peace**
**Barnett, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies (Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” 3/7, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Events in Libya are a further … </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">the Pacific Century now unfolding.</span>__

**U.S. hegemonic decline causes global great-power war, collapses trade and spreads economic nationalism and protectionism**
**Zhang & Shi 11** – Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace; Lin Shi, Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and consultant for the World Bank, January 22, 2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” East Asia Forum, online: http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

__Over the past two decades, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**Empirical studies demonstrate that expanding … have decreased as trade advanced**
**Gartzke, 5** - associate professor of political science at Columbia University and author of a study on economic freedom and peace contained in the 2005 Economic Freedom of the World Report (Erik, “Future Depends on Capitalizing on Capitalist Peace,” 10/18, Windsor Star, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5133)

With terrorism achieving
… <span class="UnderlineChar">nations from this historic opportunity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Our authors rely on a testable … correlation with a reduction in conflict**
**Weede, 4** – professor of sociology at the University of Bonn, Germany, In Winter 1986-87, he was Visiting Professor of International Relations at the Bologna Center of The Johns Hopkins University. (Erich, “BALANCE OF POWER, GLOBALIZATION, AND THE CAPITALIST PEACE,” http://www.fnf.org.ph/downloadables/Balance%20of%20Power,%20Globalization%20and%20Capitalist%20Peace.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If one does research or …</span>, and unsystematically evaluated empirical evidence<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**War is at its lowest level in history because of US primacy---best statistical studies prove heg solves war because it makes democratic peace resilient globalization sustainable---it’s the deeper cause of proximate checks against war**
**Owen 11** John M. Owen Professor of Politics at University of Virginia PhD from Harvard "DON’T DISCOUNT HEGEMONY" Feb 11 www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew </span>__Mack …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. material and moral support for liberal democracy remains strong.</span>

**Every credible measure of study shows violence is down because of everything consistent with the aff---heg, democracy, liberal trade---it’s only a question of sustaining current dynamics and preventing shocks to the system**
**Pinker 9-24**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Steven, Professor of Psychology at Harvard University, “Violence Vanquished: We believe our world is riddled with terror and war, but we may be living in the most peaceable era in human existence. Why brutality is declining and empathy is on the rise,” 9-24-2011, http://online.ws j.com/article/SB10001424053111904106704576583203589408180.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the day this article … </span>__enlightenment that made it possible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Focus on strategic deterrence and democracy are key to averting crisis escalation – reject the infinite number of root causes that debilitate action**
**Moore 4** – Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State. (John Norton, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If major interstate war is … are dramatically increased or decreased?</span>

**Shocks to the democratic system are the ONLY propensity for conflict—globalization and liberal norms have eradicated warfare and structural violence—every field study proves**
**HORGAN 9** is Director of the Center for Science at Stevens Institute of Technology, former senior writer at Scientific American, B.A. from Columbia and an M.S. from Columbia (John, “The End of the Age of War,” Dec 7 http://www.newsweek.com/id/225616/page/1

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The economic crisis was </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">may finally come to pass.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1ac solvency</span>== 
**Femtosat sensing nodes provide quick images and immediate information sharing**
**Ziegler ’07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former Air Force Space Command (… will help frame the approach. </span>


==2ac hegemony== 

**Heg is sustainable and high -- their authors misunderstand geopolitics -- no challengers.**
**Kagan, 1-5-12**
[Robert, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe -- Brookings, “New Year, Old Foreign Policy Problems,” [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2012/0105_international_relations_kagan]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, </span>__the much-discussed “rise …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> understanding of that enduring reality.</span>

**US will cling to hegemony—it’s just a question of effectiveness**
**Tellis ’09** – Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago (Ashley J., “Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” Global Asia, Volume 4, Number 1, http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This hegemony is by no … international support for its policies. </span>


==<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">orientalism</span>== 

<span class="Underline">**Their epistemology claims are wrong—our authors are capable of making non-racist assumptions—they link to all of their knowledge production claims and re-entrench Orientalism.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Teitelbaum 6**—Senior Fellow, Moshe Dayan Center for Middle East and African Studies, Tel Aviv U. Adjunct Senior Lecturer, Middle Eastern History, Bar Ilan U. PhD, Tel Aviv U—AND—Meir Litvak—Senior Research Fellow, Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies. Associate Professor, Middle Eastern and African History, Tel Aviv U. PhD, Harvard (Joshua, Students, Teachers, and Edward Said: Taking Stock of Orientalism, March 2006, http://www.campus-watch.org/article/id/2493, AMiles)</span>

<span class="Underline">The critics did not deny …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as well, despite Said's critique. </span>


==heg rhetoric k== 

**Reps don’t affect reality – material structure are more important**
**Tuathail 96** (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)

__While theoretical debates at academic …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> mess that is human history.</span>

**Primacy fills in for powerless institutions—key to solve genocide and mass violence globally**
**Lieber 2005** – PhD from Harvard, Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown, former consultant to the State Department and for National Intelligence Estimates (Robert, “The American Era”, pages 51-52, WEA)

__The United States possesses the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__provides a more recent example__


==__framework__== 

**No prior questions—focus on epistemology makes it impossible to describe the world and act**
David Owen<span class="CardTagandCiteChar">,</span> Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 200<span class="CardTagandCiteChar">2</span> p. 655-7

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span><span class="CardText1Char">a potentially </span>vicious circle arises<span class="CardText2Char">.</span>


==security k== 

**The lack of deterrence is the most reliable predictor of war – instead of focusing on root causes, we should look to variables that directly affect decision-making, and deterrence is the most important factor**
**Sharp, 8** – adjunct professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center (Gary, “Democracy and Deterrence. Foundations for an Enduring World Peace,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA493031&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moore concludes in Solving the War …</span> __to a totality of incentives.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 43</span>

**Deterrence doesn’t make securitization inevitable – it can break cycles of hostility and generate cooperation**
**Lupovici 8** – Post-Doctoral Fellow Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto (Amir, “Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse,” http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf

__Since deterrence can become part … stable expectations of avoiding violence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**the only way to prevent conflict empirically is to look at the specific decision calculus of national leaders**
**Sharp, 8** – adjunct professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center (Gary, “Democracy and Deterrence. Foundations for an Enduring World Peace,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA493031&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

__While classical liberals focused on … war must address these individuals__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**It’s empirically verifiable that low deterrence is the most important factor**
**Moore 4** – Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State. (John Norton, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As so broadly conceived, </span><span class="hit">__there …__</span> __is, deterrence, that become crucial__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Even if insecurity is inevitable our impact isn’t –the plan reduces the worst violence. We can’t guarantee utopia but we can keep things from getting worse**
**Flynn, 07** (Stephen, senior fellow for national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, and Consulting Professor, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, The Edge of Disaster: Rebuilding a Resilient Nation, p. 9-10)

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Thinking about and preparing for </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> effectively when things go wrong. </span>

**Extinction outweighs**
**Nye, 86** (Joseph S. 1986; Phd Political Science Harvard. University; Served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs; “Nuclear Ethics” pg. 45-46)

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Is there any end that … both prudential and moral reasoning.</span>

**Securing life is a prerequisite to determining value.**
**Schwartz, 02** (Lisa, Medical Ethics, http://www.fleshandbones.com/readingroom/pdf/399.pdf)

The second assertion made by … concerned and not by others.


=Round 5= 
==1ac inherency== 
**The Commercial Crew Program is being massively underfunded—guarantees delays and risks full program cancellation—adequate funding solves**
**Clark 4/24**/12 (Stephen, “Congress wary of fully funding commercial crew,” Spaceflight Now, http://www.spaceflightnow.com/news/n1204/24commercialcrew/, rbw)

__Senate and House budget bills would … commercial crew program on schedule__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==1ac plan== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding for the Commercial Crew Program

==1ac hsf== 
**Our credibility in space is tanked without human spaceflight**
**Dittmar 1/3**/12 – the President and CEO of Dittmar Associates, Inc, a senior consultant to NASA and to the space industry, specializing in strategic planning, space policy, strategic communications, commercialization, and public/private partnerships (Mary Lynne, “An enduring value proposition for NASA human spaceflight (part 5),” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1998/1)
*HSF = Human Spaceflight

__Whether or not the US …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">generally lost in the noise. </span>

**Funding the CCP is key to recapturing US human spaceflight leadership**
<span class="Underline">**Lopez-Alegria 4/10**/12 – US Navy Capt. (ret.), president of the Commercial Spaceflight Federation, former test pilot, a NASA astronaut and an International Space Station commander (Michael, “Viewpoint: Commercial Space Will Renew NASA,” Aviation Week, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=awst&id=news/awst/2012/04/09/AW_04_09_2012_p58-444291.xml&headline=Viewpoint:%20Commercial%20Space%20Will%20Renew%20NASA, rbw)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Decisions by Presidents George W. Bush </span>… U.S. preserves its human-spaceflight leadership<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Two scenarios,**
**First, countries perceive the US as pursuing space dominance—causes ASAT deployment**
**Zhang ‘11** – Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong (Baohui, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2, March/April, pp. 311-332)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DENYING THE U.S. QUEST … heights, which will in turn enable dominance in air, land, and sea battles. Thus, it is impossible to achieve national security without obtaining space security.23 pg. 315-318</span>

**Showcasing commercial developments resolves international concerns about US space dominance and allows us to accumulate soft power**
**Brown 09** – Masters of Science from Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University (Trevor, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air & Space Power Journal, Spring, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Evidently, </span>__rhetoric …____capabilities and **retain soft power**__**.**

**ASAT deployment triggers miscalculation and preemption**
**Martel & Yoshihara 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of national … ,” </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Washington Quarterly</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• 26:4 AUTUMN 2003, 19–35//edlee]</span>

__Strategists__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the United States … for their economic well-being. Pg. 26-27</span>

**That causes retaliation and extinction**
**Mitchell et al 01** – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__

**Second, NASA and the aerospace industry are about to collapse—recovering human spaceflight via the aff is key to tech superiority and aerospace competitiveness—preserves hegemony**
**Dinerman 11** – consultant for the DOD, well-known and respected space writer regarding military and civilian space activities since 1983, part time ran Space Equity.com, written for a variety of publications including Ad Astra, The Wall Street Journal and the American Spectator, a regular contributor with the Space Review and now writes for the Hudson Institute New York (Taylor, “How the End of NASA Affects US National Security,” August 1, http://www.stonegateinstitute.org/2299/nasa-us-national-security)

__Space exploration is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> __top of the President's priorities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Now is key—heg is perceptually devastated and Russia and China are filling the hsf gap**
**Krauthammer 4/20**/12 – Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for the Washington Post (Charles, “Krauthammer: A sad farewell to a grand achievement,” http://news.cincinnati.com/article/20120420/COL24/304200046/Krauthammer-sad-farewell-grand-achievement?odyssey=mod%7Cnewswell%7Ctext%7CFRONTPAGE%7Cs)

__As__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the space shuttle </span>__Discovery … down, then casually abandoned, by us__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**U.S. hegemonic decline causes global great-power war**
**Zhang & Shi 11** – Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace; Lin Shi, Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and consultant for the World Bank, January 22, 2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” East Asia Forum, online: http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

__Over the past two decades, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**Social science proves that the alternative to hegemony is great power war**
**Wohlforth 09** – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The upshot is a near scholarly … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">tend to be zero sum</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.9</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1ac iss</span>== 
**NASA soon won’t have transport to the ISS, which results in dramatic underutilization—funding commercial crew is key to solve**
**Chaplain 3/28**/12 –Director of Acquisition and Sourcing Management at the Government Accountability Office (Cristina T, “NASA: Significant Challenges Remain for Access, Use, and Sustainment of the International Space Station,” Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/589668.pdf, rbw)

__The greatest challenge … only conduct minimal science experiments__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**__Two impacts__**
**First, ISS micro-gravity research solves disease spread**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NASA 10 – National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1/13/10 (“Vaccine Development,” http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/research/nlpv2.html.) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What was done on ISS </span>… <span class="Underline">possibilities of future microgravity discoveries. </span>

**Disease spread will cause extinction**
**Greger ‘08** – M.D., Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States (Michael, “Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching,” http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senate Majority Leader Frist describes … </span>__a tune whistled whilst passing a graveyard.”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3154 </span>

**Second, the ISS** **is critical to space colonization – it provides the only means to test life support technologies in space**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chow 11 – staff writer, space.com, 4/7/11(Denise, “Space Station Crucial for Going to Mars, NASA Chief Says,” http://www.space.com/11335-nasa-mars-exploration-space-station.html.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NASA is on track to … </span>us to our neighboring planet."

**Colonization prevents extinction**
<span class="Underline">**Gott 02 –** J Richard Gott III, professor of astrophysical sciences at Princeton University. “ Spaceflight or Extinction” </span>
<span class="Underline">http://www.spaext.com/info/gott/index.html, NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Staying on Earth increases the … </span><span class="Underline">chances instead of one. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ibid., 231. </span>

==1ac solvency== 
<span class="Underline">**Increasing funding for the CCP is critical to solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Foust 3/12**/12 – editor and publisher of The Space Review, operates Spacetoday.net and the Space Politics and NewSpace Journal blogs (Jeff, “Commercial crew in the spotlight,” The Space Review, http://thespacereview.com/article/2044/1, rbw)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span>We need to get … a <span class="Underline">… crew companies, and their advocates</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The commercial sector can and wants to do it—funding is the only barrier**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Foust 11** – editor and publisher of The Space Review, operates Spacetoday.net and the Space Politics and NewSpace Journal blogs (Jeff, “Commercial crew and NASA’s tipping point” The Space Review, February 14, </span>http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1780/1<span class="Underline">, rbw)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commercial readiness</span>
__One of the key issues__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … … ,” said former congressman Bob Walker.</span>






==2ac t increase== 
**We meet**
**Lopez-Alegria 4/10**/12 – US Navy Capt. (ret.), president of the Commercial Spaceflight Federation, former test pilot, a NASA astronaut and an International Space Station commander (Michael, “Viewpoint: Commercial Space Will Renew NASA,” Aviation Week, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=awst&id=news/awst/2012/04/09/AW_04_09_2012_p58-444291.xml&headline=Viewpoint:%20Commercial%20Space%20Will%20Renew%20NASA, rbw)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whether considered from a geopolitical … a firm, fixed-price contract. </span>

**“Substantial increase” in the context of the resolution means __at least 500 million dollars__.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chase 3</span> (Brian, US Space Agent, March-April 2003, “Washington Update: The Columbia Investigation,” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume15/v15n2/contents/v15n2f1.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Columbia was lost just … nearly </span>__$<span class="Underline">15.5 billion</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in FY04. </span>

**education—the aff is a critical policy proposal in this year’s literature base**
**Dittmar 1/3**/12 – the President and CEO of Dittmar Associates, Inc, a senior consultant to NASA and to the space industry, specializing in strategic planning, space policy, strategic communications, commercialization, and public/private partnerships (Mary Lynne, “An enduring value proposition for NASA human spaceflight (part 5),” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1998/1, rbw)
*HSF = Human Spaceflight

__Given the rapidly changing “spacescape … addressed is of considerable importance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2ac advantage cp</span>== 


**Code of Conduct doesn’t solve weaponization**

**RTT News 12** (April 19, “US Not To Sign Code Of Conduct For Space If It Restricts Defense Rights”, http://www.rttnews.com/1863560/us-not-to-sign-code-of-conduct-for-space-if-it-restricts-defense-rights.aspx?type=gn&Node=B1, WSX)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(RTTNews) - Frank A. </span>__Rose,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">US Deputy … and beyond, the US official said.</span>


==2ac patent law da== 

**Trade doesn’t solve war**
**Goldstone 2007** (P.R., PhD candidate in the Department of Political Science and a member of the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is a non-resident research fellow at the Center for Peace and Security Studies, Georgetown University, AlterNet, September 25, http://www.alternet.org/audits/62848/?page=entire)

__Many hope trade will constrain__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> __capability to buy and sell__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2ac eurocentrism k</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">didn't wanna be repetitive - other 2ac k cards were in my 2ac from round 4.</span>


**Policy education about exploring and developing space is key for species survival and human evolution.**

**Sadeh 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eligar Sadeh, professor of space studies at University of North Dakota, 2002, “Space Politics and Policy: an Evolutionary Perspective,” Kluwer Academic Publishers, p. xiii-xiv) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his recent book, //Pale …// as the twenty-first century progresses. </span>



**Enlightenment thinking liberates more than it destroys and spreading Western ideals decreases structural violence**

**Kors,** Professor of History at University of Pennsylvania and Senior Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute, **2001** (Alan Charles, “Triumph without Self-Belief,” Orbis, Summer, ebsco)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For generations, and to this … fact survive the twentieth century.</span>

=Round 6= 
==1nc jwst da== 

**JWST will be funded now – 2013 budget preserves it despite other cuts.**
**Wasson 4-18**-12 – [Erik, The Hill, “House GOP unveils cuts to NASA, science funding,” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/appropriations/222205-house-gop-unveils-cuts-to-nasa-science-funding]]]

__The House Appropriations Committee__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on … </span> __to gut in the past__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**NASA budgets flat -- forces tradeoffs.**
**Rincon, 3-20-12**
[Paul, BBC, “Nasa science chief 'fighting' for planetary research”]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr Mark Sykes, director of … </span> __down… it's a conservative process."__

<span class="Underline">**JWST key to space preeminence -- no other projects fill in.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Skalski, 7-25-11**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Liz, Staff Writer -- Gazette, “James Webb Space Telescope may stay grounded, aborting jobs,” http://www.gazette.net/article/20110722/NEWS/707229666/1122/1124/James-Webb-Space-Telescope-may-stay-grounded-aborting-jobs&template=gazette]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the past 16 years …</span><span class="Underline"> project is 75 percent complete. </span>


**Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction**

**Barnett, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies (Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” 3/7, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Events in Libya are a …</span>__<span style="color: #222222;"> the Pacific Century now unfolding.</span>__



==1nc t substantial== 

**Substantially should be defined by context**
**Devinsky 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In reversing a summary judgment … upon reading the patent documents."</span>

<span class="Underline">**A substantial increase for space is at least 2.6 billion**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Alexander 08** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, President … guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.</span>

===2nc cards=== 
**Alternative interpretations are even more ambiguous and destroy limits**
**Stark 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – patent attorney from Tennessee (Stephen, “NOTE: KEY WORDS AND TRICKY PHRASES: AN ANALYSIS OF PATENT DRAFTER'S ATTEMPTS TO CIRCUMVENT THE LANGUAGE OF 35 U.S.C., Journal of Intellectual Property Law, Fall, 1997 5 J. Intell. Prop. L. 365, lexis) </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In patent law, ambiguity of claim language necessarily results in uncertainty in the scope of protection. This uncertainty impairs all of society--the patentee, the competitor, and the public. The process of determining a particular meaning to define a term in a patent claim may result in ambiguity.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Ordinary Meaning. First, words … </span>__protection__ <span class="hit">__particularly hard to determine__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Using context removes the arbitrariness of assigning a fixed percentage to “substantial”</span>**
**Viscasillas 4 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor at the Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, </span>**(**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pilar, “Contracts for the Sale of Goods to Be Manufactured or Produced and Mixed Contracts (Article 3 CISG)”, CISG Advisory Council Opinion No. 4, 10-24, </span>http://cisgac.com/default.php?ipkCat=128&ifkCat=146&sid=146<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

**2.8.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Legal writers who follow … </span>__basis of an overall assessment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==1nc elections da== 


**Obama will win if he maintains his approval rating**
**Paulson 4-24**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Scott Paulson April 24, 2012 President Obama's approval rating at 50% - Obama leads Romney by 7% http://www.examiner.com/article/president-obama-s-approval-rating-at-50-obama-leads-romney-by-7</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">According to the Gallup Daily … __will win a second term.__</span>

Spending on space will cost Obama the election – perceived as reckless
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 10</span>
Marcia, editor, “What the Election Means for NASA” Space Policy Online Nov 3
<span class="DebateUnderline">The Republican takeover of the … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">impending federal spending cut tsunami.</span>
Obama reelection key to a global climate deal and alternative energy – GOP president wrecks chances for success
Geman 12
Ben Geman, The Hill, “Report says global climate deal hinges on Obama reelection” 01/05/2012, http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/202539-report-global-climate-deal-hinges-on-obama-reelection
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Prospects for striking a binding … agreement by 2015 almost impossible</span>**.**

**Warming risks extinction, outweighs nuclear war, and turns the case**
**Deibel ‘7** [Terry L. Deibel, professor of IR @ National War College, 2007, Foreign Affairs Strategy, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today]
Droughts, floods, and violent storms …<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of life on this planet.</span>

==1nc russia counterplan== 
Counterplan text:
**The government of the Russian Federation should colonize Mars.**


**Russia is better at space colonization: resources and water harvesting**
**Smith and Wilson 09,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tabitha and Wilson, Reporters for the School of Russian and Asian studies, “Russia in Space”, The School for Russia and Asian studies9-29-09, [[http://www.sras.org/russia_in_space]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Beyond the realm of radio …</span> __missions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and far-reaching exploration. </span>


==1nc dark energy advantage== 
**Extinction isn't inevitable**
**Jadad and Enkin 07 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Emeritus Professor of Biostatistics PhD (Alejandro, Director of U of Toronto’s E-Health Innovation, Murray, U of Toronto, , British Medical Journal, “Computers: Transcending our Limits?” doi:10.1136/bmj.39038.663970.94, http://www.bmj.com/cgi/content/full/334/suppl_1/s8)</span>

Since the Stone Age<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> we … with knowledge, but with wisdom. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if they are right, colonization doesn’t solve extinction</span>
<span class="CitesChar">**Williams 10 –** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Physics(Lynda, San Francisco State U; “Irrational Dreams of Space Colonization” //The Peace Review//; Spring 2010; http://www.scientainment.com/lwilliams_peacereview.pdf, JT)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">According to scientific theory</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the …</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">threats</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in the near future. </span></span></span>


**Launch emissions from space colonization deplete the ozone**
<span class="cite">Atkinson 09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Solar System Ambassador for NASA, Senior Editor and writer for Universe Today, the project manager for the 365 Days of Astronomy podcast, science journalist who writes mainly about space exploration and astronomy (Nancy, “Will Rocket Launches Deplete the Ozone?” 4/2, http://www.universetoday.com/28412/will-rocket-launches-deplete-the-ozone/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A new study predicts that </span>… to move to the forefront<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Loss of the ozone destroys biodiversity and spurs greenhouse gas buildup</span>
**EPA 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Environmental Protection Agency (January 1/13/2011, “Health and Environmental Effects of Ozone Layer Depletion”, http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/effects/index.html TC, EA)</span>

__The Connection Between Ozone Layer …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which they are useful outdoors. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Davidson 03 – </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Founder of the Turtle House Foundation and award-winning Journalist (Fire in the Turtle House, p.47-51, EA]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But surely the Athenians had … and just twelve on land. </span>


**Space colonization causes space diseases, wiping out life on earth**
**Mullen 03 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Leslie Mullen, 8-25-2003, “Alien Infection,” Astrobiology Magazine, http://www.astrobio.net/news/modules.php?op=modload&name=News&file=article&sid=570</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris Chyba, who holds the …</span><span class="underline0"> and environment </span>of our planet<span class="underline0">.</span>


**<span style="color: #333333;">Their entire affirmative is a scare tactic – you should reject the epistemology of their internal links, which are based on hyping threats to support a space activist’s pet cause</span>**
**Bennett 10** – professor of Economics, George Mason University “To Mars! (But Why?)” The Doomsday Lobby, Doi: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6685-8_5

If political liberals such as … must be opened. Mars beckons.”//57//

**No impact to economic collapse**
**Barnett 2009** – senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC and a contributing editor/online columnist for Esquire magazine, columnist for World Politics Review (8/25, Thomas P.M. “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” World Politics Review, http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx, WEA)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">When the global financial crisis …</span> __what the Internet is for.__

===2nc cards=== 
**All extinction level asteroid threats have been detected**
**NASA 9/29**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2011 (“NASA Space Telescope Finds Fewer Asteroids Near Earth,” http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=34820)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- New observations by NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer, or </span>__WISE, show there are …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">which could destroy a metropolitan area if they were to impact in the wrong place. </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space microbes brought back from return trips cause extinction before colonization is complete – turns case</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Butler 07 –</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jeb, “Unearthly Microbes and … , a second exposure could prove deadly.</span>

<span class="stylestylebold12pt0">**<span style="background-color: white;">Current launches are a non-issue but a rapid increase will offset ALL recovery in the ozone – and would lead to regulation bans which turns the affirmative</span>**</span>

**Foust 09**<span class="stylestylebold12pt0">– Editor of Space Review (</span>Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of The Space Review, 6-15-2009, “Space and (or versus) the environment,” The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1395/1]])


__While the … restrict launch activity.__




**Space colonization causes asteroid terrorism resulting in extinction**
**Singer 01 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Clifford E. Singer, professor of nuclear engineering and director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign, Spring 2001, Swords and Ploughshares, http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/homepage_docs/pubs_docs/S&P_docs/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However </span>the <span class="underline0">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by physical considerations.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Colonizing other planets is a self-fulfilling prophecy that makes extinction inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Williams 10 –** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lynda, Physics Instructor, “Irrational Dreams of Space Colonization”, Peace Review, a Journal of Social Justice, http://www.scientainment.com/lwilliams_peacereview.pdf) RKS</span>

Life on <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> threats on Earth?</span>
==1nc cooperation advantage== 

<span class="Underline">**Cooperation is too expensive and inefficient; kills U.S. competitiveness** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Rendleman and Faulconer 2010.**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Perspectives on Improving United States International Space Cooperation.” Faulconer is the President of Space Strategic Solutions. He has worked for Lockheed Martin, where he was the Director of Space Exploration. He was also the Business Area Executive for Civilian Space at John’s Hopkins APL. He is the vice president of AAS and won NASA Group Achievement Award. Rendlement works for Space Strategic Services and previously served with the USAF. http://strategicspacesolutions.com/Public-papers/IAC-10B38-E775.pdf)</span>

International cooperation can be too <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the ISS support have </span>

**Issues will be worked out – Airbus-Boeing conflict proves**
**CRS 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (European Union–U.S. Trade and Investment Relations: Key Issues. February 14, 2008. Raymond J. Ahearn, Coordinator Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division. John W. Fischer, Charles B. Goldfarb, and Charles E. Hanrahan Resources, Science, and Industry Division. Walter W. Eubanks Government and Finance Division. Janice E. Rubin American Law Division. http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34381.pdf.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Airbus-Boeing23 </span>__Claims and counter-claims … have begun hearing the cases.__


**NASA-ESA cooperation fails, five reasons.**

**Crooks 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (TRANSATLANTIC RELATIONS: THE ROLE OF NATIONALISM IN MULTINATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION Heather R. Crooks: Captain, United States Air Force, S.B., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2000, M.S., Air Force Institute of Technology, 2003. MASTER OF ARTS IN SECURITY STUDIES (EUROPE AND EURASIA) from the NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL June 2009. http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada501117.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many lessons learned can be … it unexpectedly announced its withdrawal. </span>

**Basic scientific nature and self-preservation make global scientific cooperation inevitable**
**Potocnik, 06** (Janez, European Commissioner for Science and Research, 1AC Article, 3/7/2006. “Between cooperation and Competition - Science and Research as a Transatlantic Bridge Builder”, http://www.iterfan.org/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=139&Itemid=2)

__Cooperation shortens the path leading …__<span class="Heading3Char"> key to performance and achievement.</span>



**Science diplomacy fails**
**Dickson 9** – journalist for SciDev (David, Dir. SciDev.Net, “The limits of science diplomacy”, 6-4, http://www.scidev.net/en/climate-change-and-energy/science-networks/editorials/the-limits-of-science-diplomacy.html)

The scientific community has a … may be no bad thing.

===2nc cards=== 
<span class="UnderlineChar">**No internal link and turn – science cooperation trades off with real diplomacy and lacks credibility because it ignores political realities**</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">**Dickson 10**</span>, Director of SciDev.Net,
(David, 6/28/10, “Science in diplomacy: “On tap but not on top”, http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/2010/06/28/the-place-of-science-in-diplomacy-%E2%80%9Con-tap-but-not-on-top%E2%80%9D/, accessed 9-11-10, CMM)

<span class="underline">**There’s a** **general consensus**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in both the scientific and political worlds </span><span class="underline">**that****the****principle of****…**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and benefit from diplomatic agreements – but </span><span class="underline">**cannot provide**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="underline">**solutions**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to either.</span>



=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]