[[toc]]
=Useful information= 

First tournament is Cyprus (UT) October 5-6, 1AC cites will be up then. We disclose generic 1NC's, neg strats and 1AC's, everything else is upon request.

===Partnerships:=== 
West BP - Jony Balk and Bryan Potts
West GN - Elise Grizzell and Nathaniel Nelson
West BH - Zachary Bastiani and Tanner Holcomb

===Partnerships @ Alta=== 
Jony Balk and Nathaniel Nelson
Bryan Potts and Elise Grizzell

===Contact info:=== 
kristof.weakley@gmail.com till we get other e-mail addresses on here

=Affirmative= 

==High Speed Rail - Cyprus== 

====Inherency==== 
Current policy is insufficient for the development of high speed rail, however HSR relies on congressional funding
Todorovich, Schned and Lane 11 (Petra Todorovich, Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane; Todorovich and Schned work in leading positions at America 2050, Lane is a senior fellow at Regional Plan Association; 09/16/2011; “High-Speed Rail International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers”; https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf) Kristof
The current federal policy framework for high-speed rail was shaped in response to
AND
annual, often politicized, appropriations makes planning and operating the railroad difficult.



And the new transportation bill provides no funding for high speed rail
APTA 11
(APTA – American Public Transportation Association; 2011-9-20; “An Analysis of Proposed U.S. House of Representatives Actions and Their Impact on Public Transportation”; Transportation Research Board database; accessed July 3) Kristof
On September 8 the House Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations
AND
high-speed and intercity passenger rail, calling for reduced federal funding.

====Plan==== 

The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in High Speed Rail.

====Econ Advantage==== 

U.S. Infrastructure in horrible condition – it’s why our economy is unsustainable
Building America's Future 11
Building America’s Future, Building America’s Future: Falling Apart & Falling Behind, http://www.bafuture.com/sites/default/files/Executive_summary_0.pdf, 7-12-12, JL
Rebuilding America’s economic foundation is one of the most important missions we face in the
AND
using the radar-based air traffic control system developed in the 1950s.




Jobs are bad now; infrastructure investment creates jobs, that is key to economic growth
Costa and Hersh 11
(Kristina, Research Assistant for the Doing What Works project and the Economic Policy team at American Progress; Adam, Economist at American Progress focusing on economic growth, macroeconomics, international economics, and China, PhD in Economics; “Infrastructure Spending Builds American Jobs”, September 8th, 2011; Center for American Progress; http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/jobs_infrastructure.html, 7/12/12, BR)
The construction sector was particularly hard hit by the Great Recession of 2007-2009
AND
large-scale civil engineering projects overseen by the Army Corps of Engineers.




High Speed Rail will spur economic growth through jobs – 3 key sectors affected
APTA 11(APTA - American Public Transportation Association; 4/6/2011; “Federal Investment in High-Speed Rail Could Spur 1.3 Million Jobs”; http://www.apta.com/mediacenter/pressreleases/2011/Pages/110406_HSR_Business.aspx; Kristof)
New report shows tangible economic benefits of investments in building a 21st century rail system
AND
long-term growth of new manufacturing and service jobs across the country.




High speed rail boosts the economy – mobility, direct and indirect employment, tourism, real estate and agglomeration are all unique internal links
Todorovich, Schned and Lane 11 (Petra Todorovich, Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane; Todorovich and Schned work in leading positions at America 2050, Lane is a senior fellow at Regional Plan Association; 09/16/2011; “High-Speed Rail International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers”; https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf) Kristof
High-speed rail’s ability to promote economic growth is grounded in its capacity to
AND
in place to maximize the economic impact of this capital-intensive investment.




Economic collapse causes multiple scenarios for nuclear war – terrorism, rogue states, Russia and China
Friedberg and Schoenfeld ‘8 (Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR – Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Visiting Scholar – Witherspoon Institute, Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-21, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture
AND
of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.





U.S. at risk of losing global competitiveness in status quo
Kunz, president and CEO of the U.S. High Speed Rail Association, ‘11
(Andy, 3/11, U.S. High-Speed Rail: Time to Hop Aboard or Be Left Behind, 2011 http://e360.yale.edu/feature/us_high-speed_rail_time_to_hop_aboard_or_be_left_behind/2378/)
The U.S. must build a national high-speed rail network if
AND
in a traffic jam on an interstate, watching the trains whiz past.




Now is key– delaying high speed rail will cede trade, currency and economic leadership to China
Burns, international journalist and UN correspondent, 11
(Patrick Burns; international journalist and United Nations correspondent; February 1, 2011; “All Aboard for High-Speed Rail”; http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/briefings/data/000194/; accessed July 2) Kristof
Finally, the risk of further procrastination on high-speed rail is part of
AND
make China and the United States even more attractive to business and innovation.




The perception of economic competitiveness is key to hegemony
Gelb, Council on Foreign Relations President, ‘10
[Leslie H. Gelb, former New York Times columnist and senior official in the state and defense departments, is currently president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations, Summer 2010, interview with The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs, “Fashioning a Realistic Strategy for the Twenty-First Century A Conversation with Leslie H. Gelb,” http://ui04e.moit.tufts.edu/forum/archives/pdfs/34-2pdfs/Gelb.pdf, pgs. 5-6, accessed 7/11/12, JTF]
LESLIE H. GELB: Power is what it always has been. It is
AND
last few years has been the perception that our economy is in decline.





Hegemony solves ALL the impacts – Economy, Free Trade, Great Power, Nuclear, Regional and Smaller Wars. Collapse triggers ALL those impacts
Kagan, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Senior Associate, 11
(Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund, 7-17-07, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136, Accessed 6/27/12, THW)
Others have. For decades “realist” analysts have called for a strategy of
AND
leg out from under a table and the table will not fall over.





====Warming Advantage==== 



HSR would save 6 billion pounds of CO2 emissions annually – prevents noise and environmental pollution caused by cars and planes
ELPC, Environmental Law & Policy Center, 2012
(Environmental Law & Policy Center,2012, “Environmental Benefits of High-Speed Rail”, http://www.highspeedrailworks.org/benefits/environmental/, 7/5/12, ML)
A nationwide high-speed rail network could mean 29 million fewer car trips and
AND
runways and traffic lanes, creating more convenient transportation with less environmental damage.





Warming is caused by emissions – an overwhelming amount of scientific evidence
Rahmstorf 8 (Stefan, Professor at the Postdam Institute for Climate Research, "Anthropogenic Climate Change: Revisiting the Facts," http://www.pik potsdam.de/~stefan/Publications/Book_chapters/Rahmstorf_Zedillo_2008.pdf)
This paper discussed the evidence for the anthropogenic increase in atmospheric CO2 concentration and the
AND
that anthropogenic global warming i0s a reality with which we need to deal.





Warming is the biggest impact – it kills hundreds of millions, destroys food/water/other resources, loss of land
Doebbler 11 (Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer, “Two threats to our existence.” Ahram Weekly 1055 http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm)
Climate change is widely acknowledged to be the greatest threat facing humanity. It will
AND
and marginalise their neighbours in developing countries. They continue in this vein.




HSR reduces greenhouse gas emissions and foreign oil dependence by incentivizing a switch from cars to rail
AHSRA, American High Speed Rail Alliance, 2009
(American High Speed Rail Alliance, 2009, “HIGH SPEED RAIL ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS”, http://eunicecorbin.com/sample/advocacy/environment.html, 7/5/12, ML)
High speed rail development promises tremendous environmental benefits and bolsters U.S. energy
AND
solution to reduce America’s dependence on fossil fuel and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.





Personal transportation is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases, reducing these emissions is key to solve warming
James 11 (James, Tony; Engineering & Technology (17509637); Jul2011, Vol. 6 Issue 6, p84-86, 3p, 2 Color Photographs; EBSCO; accessed July 2) Kristof
TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY citizens are travelling more than ever before. According to experts
AND
traffic congestion, governments around the world are looking seriously at rail investment.




The plan also builds support for international climate agreements
Burwell 10 (David, Director of the Energy and Climate Program @ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, " Transportation—The Leading Cause of Global Warming," http://carnegieendowment.org/2010/04/15/transportation-leading-cause-of-global-warming/2fr2)
Road transportation is the greatest contributor to global warming for the next 50 years according
AND
carbon and this would contribute to the likelihood of a global climate agreement.”

====Solvency==== 



HSR decreases traffic and air congestion caused by other transportation systems
Dutzik, Senior Policy Analyst with Frontier Group specializing in energy, transportation, and climate policy, holds an M.A. in print journalism from Boston University and a B.S. in public service from Penn State University, 10
(Tony, 2010, “Why Intercity Passenger Rail?,” The Right Track: Building a 21st Century High-Speed Rail System for America, Available Online at http://americanhsra.org/whitepapers/uspirg.pdf,7/5/12, ML)
An effective intercity transportation system carries business travelers, tourists, and others reliably and
AND
this had risen to 47 percent, with only 53 percent flying.11





Building HSR around populated areas and airports generates demand
Oldenburg, affiliated with America 2050 in 11
(Ben Oldenburg on January 11, 2011; affiliated with America 2050; http://www.america2050.org/pdf/HSR-in-America-Chapter-1.pdf; accessed July 3) Kristof
These regional parameters form the basis of our detailed analysis of corridors by megaregion described
AND
critical evaluation of whether the investment choices match the intent of public policies.




States and private companies do not have the funds and take too long – federal action is key to solve
Kuehn, Associate Partner with Oliver Wyman, Inc., 2011
(Jason, 4/18/11, Oliver Wyman, Inc., “A New Roadmap for High-Speed Rail”, http://rail.railplanning.com/files/2011/04/20110425-OW-HSR-Commentary-for-Blog_final.pdf, 7/7/12, CNW)
Critical Success Factors for HSR in the United States What are the critical elements to
AND
it is unlikely the corridor will draw sufficient ridership to cover operating costs.




The role of the federal government is required to manage multistate programs and operations
TODOROVICH, SCHNED, & LANE 11
1. director of America 2050, a national urban planning initiative, member of the Board of Advisors of the Eno Transportation Foundation, Masters in City and Regional Planning from the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University 2. associate planner for America 2050 at Regional Plan Association 3. senior fellow for urban design at Regional Plan Association and founding principal of Plan & Process LLP. Loeb Fellow at the Harvard Graduate School of Design
[Petra Todorovich, Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane, High-Speed Rail: International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers, https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf, September 2011, Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, Policy Focus Report]
The Passenger Rail Investment Improvement Act (PRIIA) is well-suited to support
AND
clariﬁed, with well-deﬁned objectives for each type of rail service.






Keynesian economics correct- Great Depression and current recession proves
Krugman, 2011Nobel Prize in economics, econ @ Princeton,
(Paul, 12/29/11, NYT, “Keynes was Right”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/30/opinion/keynes-was-right.html, 7/2/12, CNW)
“The boom, not the slump, is the right time for austerity at
AND
G.D.P. in both countries down by double digits.


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]