Contact - [[mailto:mahnveed@gmail.com|mahnveed@gmail.com]] for aff cites!
Contact - [[mailto:priyankajuneja2@gmail.com|priyankajuneja2@gmail.com]] for neg cites!
=Affirmative= 
==Samford== 
===[[#Contact Stuff-Seqoyah-Inherency]]Inherency=== 
**The existing roadway network is deficient – improvements are needed to prevent congestion and traffic impacts from the relocation** NEPA 11[Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]
An improved network of roads on Guam … The need for the proposed action is explained in further detail in Section 2.5.1.
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Guam**
===[[#Contact Stuff-Seqoyah-Relations]]Relations=== 
**Advantage 1 is relations**
**The Guam Road Network is required to support construction of facilities needed for effective Marine Corps projects & realignment** NEPA 11[Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]
The Guam Road Network (GRN) is proposed to … to support the Marine Corps’ defensive mission.
**Realignment is key to resetting the bilateral alliance with Japan** Delgado 6/30/12 (Nick Delgado, KUAN – Guam’s News Network, “Guam briefing held on Capitol Hill”, [[http://www.kuam.com/story/18921168/2012/06/30/guam-briefing-held-on-capitol-hill]] // Veevz)
Guam – The House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on … critical bilateral relations with the Japan government.
**US-Japan relations are key to Asian stability, and US position across the world** US Dept. of State 5/5 [US Department of State, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, “Background Note: Japan, Updated on March 5, 2012, [[http://www.state.gov/r/pa/ei/bgn/4142.htm]] /ghosh]
Because of the two countries' combined … United States on nonproliferation and nuclear issues.
**Failure to cement the alliance results in Korean, Taiwan, and Indo-Pak war – that goes nuclear** Armitage et al., 2k (Richard L. Armitage et al., 2000 Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, [[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm]])
Asia, in the throes of historic change, should … is central to America’s global security strategy.
**A. China war causes extinction** Hsiung 01 (James Hsiung, Professor of Politics @ New York University, Ph.D of Political Science @ Columbia University, Twenty-First Century World Order and the Asia Pacific: Value Change, Exigencies, and Power Realignment, August 11, 2001, access via Google Books)
But decision-makers cannot afford such luxury. … Japan or Taiwan or in the conflict’s wake.
**B. Korean conflict causes extinction** Kim 02 (Kim Myung Chul, Executive Director of Center for Korean-American Peace, “Agreed Framework is Brain Dead; Shotgun Wedding is the Only Option to Defuse Crisis,” October 24, 2002, [[http://nautilus.org/napsnet/napsnet-policy-forum/nautilus-institute-policy-forum-online-agreed-framework-is-brain-dead-shotgun-wedding-is-the-only-option-to-defuse-crisis/]] )
Any military strike initiated against North Korea … They would end up finding themselves reduced to a second-class nuclear power.
**C. Indo-Pak war causes extinction** Fai 01 (Dr. Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” 7/8, Washington Times, [[http://www.pakistanlink.com/Letters/20]] 01/July/13/05.html)
The foreign policy of the United States … impending Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.
**Alliance key solve warming** Calder 10(Kent E, Director, Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.‐JAPAN COOPERATION,” [[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]]) Active U.S.‐Japan cooperation on energy … embedded political interests in both countries.
**The United States has a moral responsibility to act against global warming** Claussen 6 (Eileen, October 5, “Climate Change: The State of The Question and The Search For The Answer”, President of the PEW center for climate change, [[http://www.pewclimate.org/press_]] room/speech_transcripts/stjohns2of2.cfm)
But Africa produces just 2 to 3 … been such an absence of political will?
===[[#Contact Stuff-Seqoyah-Guam Economy]]Guam Economy=== 
**Advantage 2 is the economy**
**1. Guam’s economy is stagnating** Guam Economic Development Authority ‘11 (Guam Economic Development Authority Bureau of Statistics and Plans, University of Guam, Pacific Center for Economic Initiatives, “Guam Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy,” [[http://www.bsp.guam.gov/Guam%202011%20Comprehensive%20Economic]] %20Development%20Strategy.pdf, YX)
Guam has seen a precipitous drop … $3.9 billion in 2009 after increasing 0.5% in 2008.
**2. Realignment - the link is reverse causal – failure to realign wrecks Guam’s economy** Guam Economic Development Authority ‘11 (Guam Economic Development Authority Bureau of Statistics and Plans, University of Guam, Pacific Center for Economic Initiatives, “Guam Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy,” [[http://www.bsp.guam.gov/Guam%202011%20Comprehensive%20Economic]] %20Development%20Strategy.pdf, YX)
The U.S. Department of Defense has maintained … presence is a significant component of Guam’s economy.
**3. It’s the best solution in the fight against poverty – it pumps billions of dollars into the economy** Calvo 12 [Eddie Calvo, Governor of the United States territory of Guam, Five-term senator within Legislature of Guam, “Second State of the Island Address,” February 1, 2012, [[http://www.pacificnewscenter.com/images/pdf]] /stateofislandaddresssecond.pdf]
We also need the military buildup. … The possibilities go on and on.
**Humanity has a moral obligation to alleviate poverty.** UN 2006 (General Assembly Press Release. December 2006. “WORLD HAS MORAL OBLIGATION TO FIGHT POVERTY, PROTECT HUMAN RIGHTS OF MOST VULNERABLE, SAYS GENERAL ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT IN HUMAN RIGHTS DAY MESSAGE”)
Following is the message by Sheikha Haya Rashed Al Khalifa … all have a moral duty to take action.
**Poverty outweighs an ongoing thermonuclear war** Gilligan 2000 (James Gilligan, Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, 2000 edition, Violence: Reflections on Our Deadliest Epidemic, p. 195-196)
The 14 to 18 million deaths a year caused … every year of every decade, throughout the world.
===[[#Contact Stuff-Seqoyah-Solvency]]Solvency=== 
**The Guam Road Network is critical to provide an effective and sustainable military relocation** NEPA 11[Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]
The Guam Road Network (GRN) is proposed to become … the AMDTF and its defensive mission.
**Total cost need to fund transportation infrastructure exceeds financing anticipated from Japan – additional funding needed** NEPA 11[Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]
DOD’s cost estimates indicate that the total … financing by $614 million and $1.05 billion, respectively.

**The Department of Defense and FHWA is key to provide funding for the roadway improvements – DAR Program provides the means** NEPA 11[Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]
The roadway improvements sections have been prepared … the analysis presented in this Final EIS.
**The federal government is key to the One Guam approach and to send a good signal to the Guam citizens** Taitano 12 (Zita, Guam reporter, 5/11/12, “Guam asks US Congress to authorize buildup funding” [[http://www.mvariety.com/cnmi/cnmi-news/local/46359-guam-asks-us-congress-to-authorize-buildup-funding.php]]) HAGÅTÑA — Gov. Eddie Calvo is asking the … his meeting with JGPO and DOD officials.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]