[[toc]]
=September-October= 
====Everything I read is on Ed's Wiki==== 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 


=November-December= 
== == 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 


===Race Affirmative===

Same as Ed Hendrickson

===Contingency Management AC===


I affirm. 

The value is morality. Our obligation as debaters is to act in a way that mirrors the decision of policy makers. This allows us to engage in policy-making role-playing, which is the most educational part of debate. Shaw writes, PEDAGOGY IN INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Using Role-Play Scenarios in the IR Classroom: An Examination of Exercises on Peacekeeping Operations and Foreign Policy Decision Making CAROLYN M. SHAW Wichita State University

The use of role-playing … is in our ‘‘national interest.’’

Since policy-makers cannot be obligated to act in a manner that is inadvisable, public policy must look at the consequences first and act as a collective body. Goodin writes, 

[Robert E. Goodin. Philosopher of … argue, a uniquely defensible public philosophy.
Since the resolution specifies the US criminal justice system, the issues discussed in the round should be sensitive to the utilitarian constraints of the USFG. Moreover, because moral rules must apply to all people, any system of rights or value devolves into consequentialism. Pettit writes,  
Philip Pettit. The Cost of Non-Consequentialism. Draft 5 Feb 1999. Google.
The upshot is that if … ultimate value to be promoted.
Thus, since any deontological system of morality logically leads to utilitarianism, the value criterion is maximizing the protection rights.

I advocate the United States federal government ought implement contingency management as a rehabilitation program.

Contention one is contingency management. Petry explains the affirmative advocacy of contingency management, hereafter referred to as CM:
Nancy M. Petry [Department of Psychiatry, University of Connecticut School of Medicine] A comprehensive guide to the application of contingency management procedures in clinical settings. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology. 2000

A variety of clinical trials … use in community-based settings.

Thus noncompulsory schemes best solve as they internalize motivation and only have highly motivated, non-coerced patients. Moreover, the consequences of losing incentives consistently alters behavior as it decreases desire for substance. Higgins writesStephen Higgins and Nancy Petry [director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms/ faculty of UCONN Health Center specializing in the treatment of substance disorders and pathology] Contingency Management; Incentives for Sobriety. Alcohol Research and Health. 1999.
Findings from animal studies may … of other drug use disorders.


Furthermore, contingency management solves empirically. Higgins explains,Stephen Higgins and Nancy Petry [director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms/ faculty of UCONN Health Center specializing in the treatment of substance disorders and pathology] Contingency Management; Incentives for Sobriety. Alcohol Research and Health. 1999.

Research indicates that AOD abuse … patients in the comparison group.

Contention two is the failures of prisons and the impact.

First, incarceration of dealers forces drug rings to expand to new dealers, widening the circle of drug crime. Pritikin writes,Martin Pritikin [professor of law at Whittier Law School] Is Prison Increasing Crime? The Wisconsin Law Review. 1/5/2009

Incarcerating drug dealers may increase … otherwise been delayed for years.136

And, regulation of the drug market narrows the crime down to the most risk averse and monopolizes the system, leading to violence and greater drug trade. Pritikin 2,Martin Pritikin [professor of law at Whittier Law School] Is Prison Increasing Crime? The Wisconsin Law Review. 1/5/2009

The war on drugs is … vie for full monopoly power.”131

Finally, the marginalization of criminals increases the deviant sub-culture. Pritikin 3,Martin Pritikin [professor of law at Whittier Law School] Is Prison Increasing Crime? The Wisconsin Law Review. 1/5/2009

According to the school of … behavior actually incites greater deviancy.

Drug abuse and violent crime are closely related. The DEA writes,DEA. "Speaking Out Against Drug Legalization." (2003). Print.
According to the [In] 1999 Arrestee Drug … destroys communities, families, and lives. 

==Negative== 


===Deterrence 1NC ===



I Negate- the negative will defend the use of the death penalty. This is the most fair and predictable for the following reasons

1. Clash- the death penalty is the clearest instance of rehabilitation vs retribution since it has ZERO rehabilitative function- all affirmative policy or philosophical offense about rehabilitation should apply to the disad

2. Predictability- the death penalty is the most frequently cited use of retributive justice, the affirmative should be prepared to debate it if they have researched the topic

3. Framers intent- the death penalty is a symbolic gesture which makes it a crucial focal point for debating the "values" of the criminal justice system- since it is used infrequently its effects are based on the signal it sends to society and the world at large.

My contention is the death penalty is key to deterrence 


1. The death penalty sends an international signal about our moral integrity as a nation- failure to broadcast a strong statement about our committments undermines deterrence 

Tung Yin [Associate Professor, University of Iowa College of Law; J.D., 1995, University of California, Berkeley (Boalt Hall); M.J., 1992, University of California, Berkeley; B.S., 1988, California Institute of Technology]. Disposable Deontology: The Death Penalty and Nuclear Deterrence. Alabama Law Review. Lexus Nexis. 2003

Certainly, governments are entitled to … retention of the death penalty.


2. Failure to send a credible international signal will collapse nuclear deterrence- other countries will be likely to call our bluff. Emphasizing the retributive aspects of justice is crucial to the strength of deterrence. 

Tung Yin [Associate Professor, University of Iowa College of Law; J.D., 1995, University of California, Berkeley (Boalt Hall); M.J., 1992, University of California, Berkeley; B.S., 1988, California Institute of Technology]. Disposable Deontology: The Death Penalty and Nuclear Deterrence. Alabama Law Review. Lexus Nexis. 2003
A more internally consistent position … while simultaneously condemning capital punishment.

3. Nuclear deterrence is key to global stability and preventing multiple threats of CBW and EMP use that kills hundreds of millions and collapse the US economy.
Mark Schneider, July 2008. Senior Analyst with the National Institute for Public Policy, Ph.D in history at the University of Southern California and JD from George Washington University, former senior officer in the DoD in positions relating to arms control and nuclear weapons policy. “The Future of the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Comparative Strategy 27.4, Ebsco.
Today, the United States, the … been reported in the press.8

4. Our impact outweighs and turns the case ---

a. Magnitude --- many rogue leaders are willing and able to use CBWs that spread rapidly and kill hundreds of millions in hours alone 
Clifford Singer, Spring 2001.  Director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign. “Will Mankind Survive the Millennium?” The Bulletin of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 13.1, http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/research/S&Ps/2001-Sp/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm.

In recent years the fear … and if this is achieved.

Also --- nuclear deterrence contains the escalation of any conflict.
C. Paul Robinson, 3/22/2001. President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command. “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm.

Let me then state my … maintain a stable and peaceful world.

b. Probability --- biological weapons cannot be controlled once they are released making escalation inevitable, [nuclear war won’t escalate because the initial use will force both sides to resolve the conflict.]
Michael Quinlan, 1997. Under-Secretary of State for Defense. Thinking about Nuclear Weapons; p. 31.

There are good reasons for … required is plain and basic.  

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]