[[toc]]
**Aff Cites:** [[mailto:cubsman3@gmail.com|cubsman3@gmail.com]]
**Neg Cites:** [[mailto:gopc32@gmail.com|gopc32@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==Orbital Depot== 

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stem</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STEM education is weak in the status quo</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 12 – </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cornell Grad Writer for the Huffington post ( Alex 10/25 Department Of Defense Needs Overhaul Of Recruitment Practices, Faces Shortfall Of STEM Workers: Report http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/25/citing-shortfall-in-quali_n_2017331.html)bs</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">American youth seem less interested in … that they did.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A commitment to moon presence provides a stimulus to STEM education and economic innovation – anything less is insufficient </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harrison </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Schmitt, ’12</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (January, former astronaut and U.S. Senator, America’s Deep Space Vision: Settlement of the Moon and Mars versus Asteroid Visits, http://blog.heartland.org/2012/01/americas-deep-space-vision-settlement-of-the-moon-and-mars-versus-asteroid-visits/)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Education</span>__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stimulation of Learning and Ambition.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">An ….… while other children look up to see Earth</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Moon is the vital internal link—it also solves asteroid deflection</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Former Sen. Harrison H. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Schmitt, ’10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (2/6, R-NM, “Obama space policy cedes Moon to China, Space Station to Russia and Liberty to the Ages”, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2445788/posts)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">What, then, should be the focus of national space policy in order to maintain leadership in deep space? Some propose that we concentrate only on Mars. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Without the experience of returning to … unique and special society</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of immigrants.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asteroids are inevitable and cause extinction unless we get to the moon</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Michi **Kaku, 13** (theoretical physicist, the Henry Semat Professor of Theoretical Physics in the City College of New York of City University of New York, a futurist, and a communicator and popularizer of science, 2/26, “Asteroid Apocalypse”, http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2013/02/25/asteroid-apocalypse-why-scientists-worry-about-2036-planet-buster.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maybe Chicken Little …… a robust space program, are we next?</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA has the capacity for lunar presence---private sector fails</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GINA </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">SUNSERI, ’12</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (1/26, “Newt Gingrich Proposes Moon, Mars Flights: A Reality Check”, http://abcnews.go.com/Technology/newt-gingrich-promises-moon-base-flights-mars-reality/story?id=15449425#.T4OzpftSTgU)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The first man on the moon, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Neil ….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> wouldn't have the money to make it work.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That's a tough sell in today's economy.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama canceled …... A round trip to Mars, barring a major advance in rocket technology, could take two years.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warming now---broader trends prove---it’ll accelerate </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nordhaus, ‘12 William D, Professor of Economics @ Yale University, "Why the Global Warming Skeptics Are Wrong" March 2012 www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2012/mar/22/why-global-warming-skeptics-are-wrong/</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The first claim is that ……</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> global warming trend in the second half of the twentieth century.”5</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STEM education key to solving warming </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mejia 9 – * Employment Services Manager at South Bay Workforce Investment Board, City University of New York-Baruch College (education) [Robert T. Mejia, “What’s Old is New: Green Jobs & What America’s Federal Workforce Investment System Can Do Now to Develop a Green Workforce”, 1/14/09, www.southbayresource.net/articles/whatsoldisnew.pdf, tables, charts, and graphs omitted]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In addition to adaptation, __science, ….__ to provide career and academic support, __will make a difference__. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warming causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Costello, ‘11, Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate ….. heat becomes impossible, therefore making many environments uninhabitable.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 2 is China</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama’s decision to abandon the moon has created a leadership vacuum</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cal </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Thomas, ’12</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (January 3, “China's JFK moment”, Examiner Columnist Cal Thomas is nationally syndicated by Tribune Media, [[http://washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/columnists/2012/01/chinas-jfk-moment/156950]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">President </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama's decision</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> in 2010 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">to cut</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">. If that leader is China and not the U.S., we will pay a heavy price that will cost us far more than money</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US is in a moon race with China---the outcome will alter the balance of power---getting their first is vital to protect our satellites and acquire the resources and skills to facilitate colonization</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paul </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Spudis, 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, 2/9/10, Paul D., SpaceRef.com, “The New Space Race,” http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewnews.html?id=1376)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">During the 1990's, we saw a revolution in tactical space - the use of and …. and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China is aggressively pursuing the moon---multiple sources prove</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">William R. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Hawkins, ‘11</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (3/7, a consultant specializing in international economic and national security issues. He is a former economics professor and Republican Congressional staff member, [[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.8906/pub_detail.asp]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meanwhile, China is positioning ….. Nothing could better portray the decline of American civilization. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1---</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Heg</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abandoning the moon devastates US leadership</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Former Sen. Harrison H. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Schmitt, ’10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (2/6, R-NM, “Obama space policy cedes Moon to China, Space Station to Russia and Liberty to the Ages”, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2445788/posts)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Histories of nations tell us that an aggressive program to return Americans ……</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> This lesson has not been lost on our ideological and economic competitors.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The moon is vital to sustain hegemony---government action is key</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mark R. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Whittington, ’12</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (1/15, “Prominent American Scientist Warns About Chinese Moon Effort”, the author of Children of Apollo and The Last Moonwalker. He has written on space subjects for a variety of periodicals, including The Houston Chronicle, The Washington Post, USA Today, the L.A. Times, and The Weekly Standard, http://voices.yahoo.com/prominent-american-scientist-warns-chinese-moon-10838399.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paul </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Spudis, a scientist at the …. a marathon. To the winner goes-everything</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abesnt effective u.s. hegemony global wars will ensue</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks, Ikenberry, and Wohlforth ’13 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Stephen, Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, John Ikenberry is the Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, William C. Wohlforth is the Daniel Webster Professor in the Department of Government at Dartmouth College “Don’t Come Home America: The Case Against Retrenchment,” International Security, Vol. 37, No. 3 (Winter 2012/13), pp. 7–51)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">A core premise of **__deep …__** and that of potential rivals is by many measures growing rather than shrinking. 85</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That deterrence is sufficient – Empirics prove </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Drezner 05</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in …. and if any of these countries waged a war with each other, the </span>




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China’s hoarding REE now---cutting exports </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CNN 3-13, “Obama announces WTO case against China over rare earths”, http://www.cnn.com/2012/03/13/world/asia/china-rare-earths-case/?hpt=hpt_bn5</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">tates, ….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> missile guidance systems</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, drones and the new F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US is completely dependent on China for elements vital to energy and defense manufacturing </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dent 9 – Peter C. Dent, Vice President of Business Development at Electron Energy Corporation, August 2009, “HIGH PERFORMANCE MAGNET MATERIALS: RISKY SUPPLY CHAIN,” online: http://www.electronenergy.com/media/amp16708p27.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Today, nearly 100% of the ….total lack of NdFeB manufacturing in the United States.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan is key to access new sources of Rare Earth Minerals</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Leonard </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">David, ’10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (October 4, “Is Mining Rare Minerals on the Moon Vital to National Security?”, David has been reporting on the space industry for more than five decades. He is past editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines and has written for SPACE.com since 1999, [[http://www.space.com/9250-mining-rare-minerals-moon-vital-national-security.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The seemingly …. taken to document and evaluate the mineral resources that occur on Earth?s nearest neighbor. Frustrating!"</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dependence causes US-Sino rare earth wars---China will halt ALL exports </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Katharine Commiso 10, New Scientist, “Is this the start of the element wars?”, </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/shortsharpscience/2010/09/is-this-the-start-of-the-eleme.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China has just 37 percent of the …</span><span class="UnderlineBold" style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">” according to the chief executive of the U.K.’s Royal Society of Chemistry, Richard Pike. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sebastian Anthony 11,“Rare earth crisis: Innovate, or be crushed by China”, 12-30, [[http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/111029-rare-earth-crisis-innovate-or-be-crushed-by-china/2]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The </span><span class="UnderlineBold" style="font-size: 12pt;">rare earth apocalypse</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> …. strategic and logistic planning to make the most of scarce metals and minerals is now one of the most important tasks that face governments and corporations. </span>



===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan </span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should increase investment in lunar depots through a Public Private Partnership in the United States.</span>**

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Aff is Transportation Infrastructure, the tech is feasible, and only Federal investment in a Public Private Partnership can create sustainable solvency</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Woodcock and Smitherman 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (¶ David Smitherman¶ 1¶ NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, ED04, Huntsville, Alabama, 35802, U.S.A.¶ and¶ Gordon Woodcock¶ Gray Research, Engineering, Science, and Technical Services Contract, “Space Transportation Infrastructure Supported By ¶ Propellant Depots”, http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20120001435_2012001131.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The development of this space …. ¶ organizations developed to manage the complexities of the overall infrastructure. There may be many other ¶ development and organizational models to consider too.</span>






==JPARC== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;"> Power Projection (NFL)</span>=== 

**Contention 1 is Power Projection:**

**Scenario 1 is the Arctic – risk of conflict high**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Tassinari, 9/7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”, http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/)//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BERLIN - </span>__The geopolitics of …. an Arctic race building up.__//



//**Goes nuclear**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wallace ’10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia, March, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons A Task Long Overdue”, http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fact is, </span>__the Arctic …. significance of the Arctic because of climate change.”__//


//**The impact is extinction in 30 minutes**//
//**Helfand and Pastore 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John, Ira – Physicians for Social Responsibility. ”US-Russia Nuclear War is Still a Threat” [[http://www.projo.com|www.projo.com]], 3/31/9 ) </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not. There remain in the world more than 20,000 nuclear weapons. ….</span>__g perhaps our own, would become extinc__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">t</span>.//


//**Despite intentions, accidents could escalate – military presence and deterrence are key**//
//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Dowd, 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(MA-Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979)</span>//
//__One reason a military presence ….military confrontation, but to prevent one.__//

//**Unfortunately, there is no presence in the status quo – the plan is key**//
//**Laird 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- member of the AOL Defense Board of Contributors, is an international defense consultant, owner of the Second Line of Defense website, and a former National Security Council staffer. ( Obama Pacific Pivot Turns On Alaska 10/5/12 [[http://defense.aol.com/2012/10/05/obama-pacific-pivot-turns-on-alaska/]] )bs</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it is not just about icebreakers. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">You …. introduced into the region such as foreign SSBNs using the water transit routes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>//


//**Scenario 2 is total dominance – Alaska is the best location for power projection and training – but we need better infrastructure**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Katkus ’10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[General – Commissioner of Alaska Military Force Advocacy and Structure Team (AMFAST). “Alaska Military Force Advocacy and Structure Team: Long Term Plan” July 2010 [[http://dmva.alaska.gov/content/amfast/AMFAST%20Long-Term%20Strategic%20Plan%20FINAL.pdf]] )</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Historically, </span>//geographic position has ….//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> willing to invest capital and get “skin in the game.” Cooperation, shared vision, and unity of purpose are central to the advancement of both our robust military and our state economy.</span>//

//**It allows us to get anywhere important in less than 9 hours**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Katkus ’10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[General – Commissioner of Alaska Military Force Advocacy and Structure Team (AMFAST). “Alaska Military Force Advocacy and Structure Team: Long Term Plan” July 2010 [[http://dmva.alaska.gov/content/amfast/AMFAST%20Long-Term%20Strategic%20Plan%20FINAL.pdf]] )</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Alaska’s strategic global positioning is central ….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> uniform deserve our very best support.</span>//

//**Conventional strength is key to deterrence – economic supremacy might be a lost cause but not military dominance**//
//**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Grant 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Research Analyst @ Lexington Institute w/ emphasis on joint doctrine, air power, aerospace defense [Dr. Rebecca Grant (PhD in International Relations from the London School of Economics and Former lecturer at Air University and Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell Air Force Base), “Global Deterrence: The Role of F-22,” Lexington Institute, February 2009</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">the balance may be shifting</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> again. ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> out to be occasional jostling or</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>//serious face-offs<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



//**Regardless of relative power, military operations solve all conflict**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan and O’Hanlon 7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Frederick Kagan and Michael O’Hanlon, Fred’s a resident scholar at AEI, Michael is a senior fellow in foreign policy at Brookings, “The Case for Larger Ground Forces”, April 24, 2007, [[http://www.aei.org/files/2007/04/24/20070424_Kagan20070424.pdf]]]</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We live at a time when </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">wars not only …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Marine Corps to handle personnel intensive missions such as the ones now under way in Iraq and Afghanistan.</span>//




//**Scenario 3 is the pivot – military budget cuts means we need to rely on cooperation with allies – JPARC is the only place for effective training exercises that will provide military interoperability**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bell 2012 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Colonel Thomas Bell (Command Systems for the US Army. “Strategic Importance of the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex” STINET, Summer 2012)bs</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alaskan Command (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ALCOM</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is preparing …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and capacity in an overseas location adds to the economic benefit of foreign nations instead of our own.</span>//



//**Training locations in the contiguous US are unsustainable**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bell 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Colonel Thomas Bell (Command Systems for the US Army. “Strategic Importance of the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex” STINET, Summer 2012)bs</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>//JPARC training resources ….//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> prepared to win the future fight wherever it may be.</span>//





//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Key to assurance, deterrence and a litany of other things in the arctic </span>//
//**Laird 12** - member of the AOL Defense Board of Contributors, is an international defense consultant, owner of the Second Line of Defense website, and a former National Security Council staffer. ( Obama Pacific Pivot Turns On Alaska 10/5/12 [[http://defense.aol.com/2012/10/05/obama-pacific-pivot-turns-on-alaska/]] )bs//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the center of the U.S. ....</span>// to secure Russian "strategic, economic, scientific and defense interests" there.

//**Alaska is key to the pivot**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ellis 2013 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tim. Staff Writer for KUAC, citing Westphal, US Army Undersecretary. [[http://fm.kuac.org/post/top-level-army-leader-alaska-s-strategic-importance-will-limit-military-budget-cuts%201/18/13|http://fm.kuac.org/post/top-level-army-leader-alaska-s-strategic-importance-will-limit-military-budget-cuts 1/18/13]] )</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Army Undersecretary Joseph ….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> deeply than the $487 billion already scheduled to be cut over the next 10 years</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//



//**Pivot is key to stability in the key economic regions for Asia**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kaplan ’11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert D. Kaplan 11 is senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, national correspondent for the Atlantic, and a member of the U.S. Defense Department's Defense Policy Board, September/October 2011, “The South China Sea Is the Future of Conflict,” online: http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/the_south_china_sea_is_the_future_of_conflict?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The South China Sea joins</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the …. confiscated 12 geographical features, Taiwan one, Vietnam 25, the Philippines eight, and Malaysia five. </span>//



//**Decline goes nuclear**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Auslin ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael Auslin 9, resident scholar at AEI, “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, http://www.aei.org/publications/filter.all,pubID.29339/pub_detail.asp]</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As they deal with a collapsing world …. and greed that have destroyed international systems in the past.</span>//



//**Successful Asia pivot streamlines the defense budget which allows for effective cyber-defense**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lind ’11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael Lind 11, Policy Director of the Economic Growth Program at the New America Foundation, February 1, 2011, “Let's end America's "Middle East First" policy,” online: http://www.salon.com/news/politics/war_room/2011/02/01/lind_middle_east_first]</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Among other things, </span>//an Asia First strategy//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are subordinate to their national interests.</span>



**Causes miscalculation and nuclear war**
**Fritz 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper will analyse the threat of cyber …</span> __without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.__

===Inevitable (NFL)=== 

**Contention 2 is inevitability –**

**Warming is happening—this card is long**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Prothero 12</span>**<span style="color: #222222;"> [Donald R. Prothero, Professor of Geology at Occidental College and Lecturer in Geobiology at the California Institute of Technology, 3-1-2012, "How We Know Global Warming is Real and Human Caused," Skeptic, 17.2, EBSCO]</span>

__<span style="color: #222222;">How do we know that global warming is …</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> They do not want to be caught unprepared and harmed by global climatic change when it threatens their survival. Neither can we as a society.</span>




**Arctic feedbacks are positive and** **__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">accelerate</span>__ the crisis**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSIDC ’13 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The National Snow and Ice Data Center – UC Boulder, “Feedback Loops: Interactions that Influence Arctic Climate” 2013, [[http://nsidc.org/arcticmet/patterns/feedback_loops.html]] )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the climate </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">system a "feedback loop….. temperature - a positive feedback</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**We’re past the tipping point – it’s not reversible in the short-term**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sutley et al 10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP //Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’ http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf Published on October 5th, 2010)//</span>
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Climate change is affecting many …. are required in order to reduce the impacts of climate change. </span>//



//**That alters Alaskan permafrost and soil stability which destroys TI**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris et al ’10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Melinda. Of ICF International – an international consulting firm that investigates the relationship between investment and the natural environment. Et al. “Alaska’s Climate Change Strategy: Addressing Impacts in Alaska.” </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alaska Department of Energy Final Report</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Winter 2010. Ebsco)</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Climate change in Alaska is creating the ….</span>// as the climate warms, sea ice retreats, and coastal storms become more frequent//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Independently – seismic activity still proves the necessity of the plan**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yang et al ’11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joey, And Uptal Dutta, Gang Xu, and Kenan Hazirbaba, School of Engineering at Alaska-Anchorage, “Effects of Permafrost and Seasonally Frozen Ground on the Seismic Response of Transportation Infrastructure Sites” 2011 [[http://ine.uaf.edu/autc/files/2012/09/107017-Frozen-Ground-Permafrost-yang.hazirbaba-use-INEAUTC1103.pdf]] )</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The state of Alaska is located in one of the ….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -¶ Worst Case Scenario, the average response spectra obtained from this study could be¶ used in seismic design.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;"> **Plan Text (NFL)**</span>=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in resilient Alaskan defense transportation infrastructure in the United States.**

===Solvency (NFL)=== 

**Contention 3 is solvency:**

**Infrastructure k2 JPARC**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bell ’12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Colonel Thomas Bell – Command Systems for the US Army. “Strategic Importance of the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex” </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">STINET</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Summer 2012)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The main reason the …. military installations throughout the state critical to the support of JPARC activities.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These include 3 Army posts, 3 Coast Guard stations, 3 national missile defense sites, 7 Air Force installations, and 17 radar sites.</span>



**No adaptive TI in the status quo – the plan is key**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris et al ’10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Melinda. Of ICF International – an international consulting firm that investigates the relationship between investment and the natural environment. Et al. “Alaska’s Climate Change Strategy: Addressing Impacts in Alaska.” </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alaska Department of Energy Final Report</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Winter 2010. Ebsco)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These options address the …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and builders use </span>



**Multiple different adaption tech exists and works**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferrell 2009 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Shane has a PhD in Civil Engineering from Michigan Tech, “Maintaining Stability Beneath Cold Region Transportation Infrastructure With Special Emphasis on Railroads” [[http://www.mtti.mtu.edu/alaskarail/reports/Ferrell_MS_Report.pdf]])</span>
Thermosyphons<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> are used where ….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (or berms) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to settle or crack, instead of the load bearing embankment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rooney and Johnson 1988), </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">thus saving in required maintenance costs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>





**Climate change destroys the coasts – dual use ensures total solvency**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DOD ‘11</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">[Department of Defense – OUSD. “Department of Defense: Report to Congress on Arctic Operations and the Northwest Passage” 2011, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/Tab_A_Arctic_Report_Public.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;"> )</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Because of the range and severity of Arctic … dual-use military-civilian facilities.</span>





==Dbils (Emory)== 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC Advantage</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The advantage is accessibility – </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While there have been advances against ableism, transportation lags behind, causing social exclusion</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aldred and Woodcock 8 - School of Social Sciences and Media Studies, University of East London, Docklands Campus, 4–6¶ ¶ University Way, AND Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, London¶ ¶ School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK (Rachel Aldred¶ a¶ and James Woodcock¶ b Vol. 13, No. 6, 485–496, August 2008 “Transport: challenging disabling¶ environments” Ebsco)bs</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In surveys transport is the most … inclusive walking environments, in¶ a car-dominant society this message is marginalised.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">These transit inequities are based in a system that prioritizes mobility, marginalizing certain bodies</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Imrie 2000 - Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London( Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf)bs</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The inequities of mobility and … for challenging the hegemonic discourses of the body, mobility, and movement.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">These constructed barriers reinforce ableism and stigma – only removing these via the plan creates the social interactions that can resolve this</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Livingston 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Professor of Sociology BS, Mercy College NY; MS, Queens College; PhD, Graduate School & University Center, (Kathy “When architecture disables: Teaching undergraduates to perceive ableism in the built environment” [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/1318988.pdf]], jstor)bs</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The definition of disability used by the ….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">. But students need help perceiving and understanding these examples as illustrations of structural discrimination or ableism.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Exclusion of disabled is founded on a flawed nationalism which demands an archetypal normative citizen defined by a medical gaze – causes eugenics</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -Senior Lecturer in Disability Studies at the School of Human Services & Social Work Griffith University (Brisbane) and Adjunct Professor in Disability Studies, Faculty of Medicine, University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka,( Fiona Kumari "States of Exceptionality: Provisional Disability, its Mitigation, and Citizenship", http://s3.amazonaws.com/academia.edu.documents/109813/20_Marshall_Vol3_Ch19_p273-p284.pdf)bs</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I argue that </span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 12pt;">law reflects a …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> to let them starve for their imbecility, society can prevent those who are manifestly unfit from continuing their kind</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. . . . Three generations of imbeciles are enough. (p. 208)</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This leads to genocidal politics</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hughes 2002 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Bill Hughes, social policy at University of Glasgow, 2002, Disability Studies Today, p. 60-2)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The dominant framework for ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of heredity, __biological reductionism may at its worst translate into a politics of genocide.__</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Inequality is embedded in the system – the plan is a prerequisite for everything else</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Koch, 2008 (Tom, Adjunct Professor of Medical Ethics at the University of British Columbia, “Spaced Out in the City: the Wrinkled World of Transit for Those With Limited Mobility”, Disability Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28 No. 2, Spring, [[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/94/94]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Making my way slowly toward the geography building I wondered about the nature of impairments and the limits they impose… __be not simply a political ideal but a social goal in transit planning.__ </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Univerisal Design solves – changes transportation modes to fit the individual instead of the opposite, trying to force individuals to fit transportation modes</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Audirac 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – Ivonne Audirac is Associate Professor in the Department of Urban and Regional Planning at Florida State University, Tallahassee. (“Accessing Transit as Universal Design”, Journal of Planning Literature 23.4, 2008, Sage Journals,)bs </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Social Inclusion and Universal Design Applied to Transit Although ….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> implementation often have big consequences”</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Petren 2004).</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The medical model is ingrained in federal legislation – we must reverse it</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Drimmer 93 – </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Editor, UCLA Law Review. J.D., UCLA (Jonathan, “CRIPPLES, OVERCOMERS, AND CIVIL RIGHTS: TRACING THE EVOLUTION OF FEDERAL LEGISLATION AND SOCIAL POLICY FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES” 40 UCLA L. Rev. 1341, June, lexis)bs</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Both the medical and social … denial of your individual humanity.</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">" n39</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Decentralization is an act of dismissing responsibility </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fine</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">& Hall 2010 - </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prof of Economics U of London & Director of the Public Services International Research Unit – U of Greenwich</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ben & Contesting Neoliberalism: Public Sector Alternatives for Service Delivery Working Paper for the Milan European Economy Workshops 2010 http://www.economia.unimi.it/uploads/wp/DEAS-2010_27wp.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Other areas of policymaking, …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> for necessary resources.</span>

===Framing=== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Try or die impact calculus is inflated by cognitive bias</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sunstein 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cass, Karl N. Llewellyn Distinguished Service Professor, University of Chicago, Law School and Department of Political Science, Probability Neglect: Emotions, Worst Cases, and Law, http://www.yalelawjournal.org/pdf/112-1/SunsteinFINAL.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If someone is predisposed …. would not matter when each risk is taken in isolation.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Great power war is improbable – global institutions, interdependence, the internet, fiscal constraints and nuclear deterrence </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Robb 2012</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Doug, Lieutenant in the US Navy, “Now Hear This - Why the Age of Great-Power War Is Over” http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2012-05/now-hear-why-age-great-power-war-over) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In Proceedings’ April “Now Hear This,” Navy Lieutenant Commander Rachel Gosnell and Marine Second Lieutenant Michael Orzetti argue that “the possibility of great-power war [between the United States and China] cannot be ruled out.” However, despite China’s rise, which potentially threatens to alter international polarity, a …, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">such a war is equal parts costly, counterproductive, archaic, and improbable.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impossibility of territorial control, dependence on global institutions, energy and environmental issues all foster cooperation, not war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deudney and Ikenberry 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Daniel Deudney is Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University and the author of Bounding Power: Republican Security Theory From the Polis to the Global Village. G. John Ikenberry is Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, a Global Eminence Scholar at Kyung Hee University, and the author of After Victory: Institutions, Strategic Restraint, and the Rebuilding of Order After Major Wars. “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail” Foreign Affairs) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This bleak outlook is based on an …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> point to the renewed value of international integration and cooperation. </span>




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The nuclear taboo prevents use</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perkovich 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (George Perkovich served as a speechwriter and foreign policy adviser to Senator Joe Biden from 1989 to 1990. Perkovich is an adviser to the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations' Task Force on U.S. Nuclear Policy. “EXTENDED DETERRENCE ON THE WAY TO A NUCLEAR-FREE WORLD” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich_Deterrence.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The reality today is that the …. if China has not committed aggression against Taiwan first.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their authors are biased to believe peace in international politics is impossible </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">FETTWEIS 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Christopher J. (National Security Decision Making Department) US Naval War College International Studies Review 8, 677–697 4. ASP</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mueller (1995:14) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">described the tendency of people to ….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">it is possible to believe they never will. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if there are wars – the aff addresses their underlying causes</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elden 2, politics at University of Warwick, (Stuart //Boundary 2// 29.2) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The __reverse side is the power to allow … **have been able to wage so many wars, causing so many men to be killed.**__ (VS, 180; WK, 136)</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even the creators of nuclear winter theory acknowledge that nuclear war could never wipe out everyone</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ROBOCK 2010 (Alan, Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, “Nuclear Winter,” WIREs Climate Change, May/June, Wiley Online Library via University of Michigan Libraries)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While it is important to …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. The consequences of nuclear winter are extreme enough without these additional effects, however.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Robock studies assume 5,000 megatons are used – that’s 95% of the total world arsenal which means it’s only credible with a US-Russian war using 100% of current arsenals</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ROBOCK et al 2007</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Alan Robock Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA Luke Oman Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA Now at Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA Georgiy L. Stenchikov Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA, “Nuclear winter revisited with a modern climate model and current nuclear arsenals: Still catastrophic consequences,” JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH, July 6, American Geophysical Union via University of North Carolina Libraries)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We do not conduct detailed new studies of …. of 1/3 of the current nuclear arsenal.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But we won’t use them all and some won’t detonate</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MARTIN 1982</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Current Affairs Bulletin, December, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82cab/index.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">What fraction of the 11,000Mt would be exploded in a major … or builds up gradually.[48]</span>




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US first strike will succeed</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LIEBER AND PRESS 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Keir A. Lieber, the author of War and the Engineers: The Primacy of Politics Over Technology, is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame.Daryl G. Press, the author of Calculating Credibility: How Leaders Assess Military Threats, is Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, “The Rise of US Nuclear Primacy,” Foreign Affairs, March/April, http://www.dartmouth.edu/~dpress/docs/Press_Rise_US_Nuclear_Primacy_FA.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">For almost half a century….will live in the shadow of U.S. nuclear primacy for many years to come.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Psychological biases cause overestimation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MARTIN 1982</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Here I outline a number of possible …. anti-war struggles and struggles for justice, equality and the like.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Social model doesn’t preclude the possibility of medicine</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hughes 9 - </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">School of Law and Social Sciences, Glasgow Caledonian University, Glasgow, UK (Bill Hughes (2009): Disability activisms: social model stalwarts and biological citizens, Disability & Society, 24:6, 677-688)bs</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even though a disembodied view of ….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> with those biological citizens, who are content to work alongside it, a curious nostalgia for the future.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Disability is the final frontier of inferiority – all other forms of oppression boil down to it</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Siebers 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> - (Disability Aesthetics” Tom Siebers 2010)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oppression is the systematic victimization of one group by another…. moment in time __the final frontier of justifiable human inferiority__ </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Disability is central to understanding democracy and debate</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">=Michael </span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 12pt;">Bérubé, ‘3</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring, [[http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of course, many of us would prefer to believe that …..of democracy, which is to say, for the good of all of us.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ethics (Harvard) </span>=== 

**Our social constructions push the disabled to the realm of the Other- every interaction with society becomes a degradation of their humanity**

**Wendell 96**- Associate Professor of Women’s Studies at Simon Fraser Univ, British Columbia (Susan, The Rejected Body, pg. 64-66)bs

<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For people with disabilities …..</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> mental conditions and because of the many socially constructed obstacles in their lives besides their 'Otherness.'' </span>


**Disability is not a yes/no question, but one of degree- at some point, we will all fall outside socially constructed norms- we must care for each other to ensure a functional society**

**MacIntyre 99**- O’Brian Senior Research Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Notre_Dame|University of Notre Dame]]

(Alasdair, Not an Aristotelian, Dependant Rational Animals, pg. 73-4)bs

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The history of any self making ….</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> Yet the part that others play in assisting us to make such transition is far from the only way in which they figure in our history.</span>



**Constructing an ethic of care is the only way to maintain stable social relations more broadly- absent notions of responsibility to satisfy the disabled persons’ needs, we ultimately abandon hope for our own self-fulfillment**

**MacIntyre 2000**- has his own page on the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy

(Alasdair, Not an Aristotelian, “The Need for a Standard of Care”, Americans with Disabilities: Exploring Implications of the Law for Individuals and Institutions, p 83-4)bs

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Some of those for whom we …. compliances rather than with the virtues. </span>



**Listening and acting is a step to counter the status quo notion that vulnerability is bad – the aff stops pretending that persons with disabilities don’t need transportation infrastructure because they are disabled but rather builds and inclusive system**

<span class="AuthorYear">Wardlaw 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Margaret P. Wardlaw is an M.D.-Ph.D. student at the Institute for the Medical Humanities, the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, Texas, where her research interests include Western childbirth practices, the religious aspects of medical practice, and disability studies. She is currently a director of the student-run free clinic St. Vincent's, and plans to practice family medicine. (“The right-to-die exception: How the discourse of individual rights impoverishes bioethical discussions of disability and what we can do about it”, International Journal of Feminist Approaches to Bioethics 3.2, Fall 2010, Callahan) </span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Finally, to adequately address issues of disability beyond right-to-die …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the benefit of all of us.</span>



**the aff results in effective political institutions and solves violent cycles of conflict and retribution by redefining the notion of vulnerability.**

<span class="AuthorYear">Turner 06</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Bryan S. Turner is a Presidential Professor in the Ph.D. Program in Sociology at CUNY. He is one of the world’s leading sociologists of religion; he has also devoted significant attention to sociological theory, the study of human rights, and the sociology of the body. He holds a Ph.D. from the University of Leeds and has been awarded the Doctor of Letters from both Flinders University in South Australia and the University of Cambridge. (“Vulnerability and Human Rights”, 2006, pgs. 23-27,) </span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Skepticism and a degree of distance from one’s …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">our capacity to sustain solidarity in the everyday world.</span>

**Specifically, our acceptance of the Other into the community acts to abandon violence**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dews 7-professor of philosophy at the University of Essex (Peter, “The Idea of Evil,” Blackwell Publishing LTD, 2007)</span>


<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The face</span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">then,</span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">is not an object…. murderous in its very exercise.'</span>**</span>

**The aff addresses the reason for wars and destruction - inferiority complexes justify war**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elden 2</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, politics at University of Warwick, (Stuart //Boundary 2// 29.2) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span>__reverse side is the power to …. **to wage so many wars, causing so many men to be killed.**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (VS, 180; WK, 136)</span>



**Inequality is embedded in the system – the plan is a prerequisite for everything else**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Koch, 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Tom, Adjunct Professor of Medical Ethics at the University of British Columbia, “Spaced Out in the City: the Wrinkled World of Transit for Those With Limited Mobility”, Disability Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28 No. 2, Spring, [[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/94/94]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Making my way slowly toward the geography …</span>__all will be not simply a political ideal but a social goal in transit planning.__



**The prior question is whether the plan on its-face affirms a worthy ethical principle. To void this obligation in the name of future consequences is a literally absurd notion—it fails to establish any coherent moral framework and makes your decision impossible.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Finnis</span>, PF LAW AND LEGAL PHILOSOPHY - OXFORD, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">80</span> [JOHN, NATURAL LAW AND NATURAL RIGHTS, 120-2]



<span class="underline">To choose an act which in ….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as a means only'.1</span>2



**You have an ethical obligation to vote affirmative in embracement of disabilities – this is a prior question to utilitarianism**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allan 5 - </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Professor of Education and Deputy Head of Department at the Stirling Institute of Education, University of Stirling, Scotland and Visiting Professor at the University of Borås, Sweden, Julie (“Inclusion as an Ethical Project”, in “Foucault and the Government of Disability”, p. 281-298)bs</span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Foucault argues that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">one should …. respect for their disabled peers.</span>



**Util marginalizes the disabled and pushed the impaired bodies to the sidelines**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Light, 2007 -</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Research and Publications Director at Disability Awareness in Action, (Richard “A Real Horror Story: the Abuse of Disabled People’s Human Rights”, July 1, http://www.disabilityworld.org/04-05_03/violence/horrorstory.shtml)bs</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There is</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, however, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a horror ….</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> even greater social stresses than those that already exist.</span>



Framing – New

**Try or die impact calculus is inflated by cognitive bias**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sunstein 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Cass, Karl N. Llewellyn Distinguished Service Professor, University of Chicago, Law School and Department of Political Science, Probability Neglect: Emotions, Worst Cases, and Law, http://www.yalelawjournal.org/pdf/112-1/SunsteinFINAL.pdf)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If someone is predisposed to …..</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a risk of 4/100,000 would be about the same as WTP to eliminate a risk of 7/100,000, simply because the small difference would not matter when each risk is taken in isolation.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan (Emory)</span>=== 

**Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in accessible transportation infrastructure in the United States.**

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan (MBA)</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States to make it universally accessible</span>**


==Geospatial Referencing== 

===**Plan Texts**=== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">**The United States federal government should substantially increase its remote sensing transportation infrastructure investment in the United States. We will clarify** </span>

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its georeferencing transportation infrastructure investment in the United States. We’ll clarify.**
===Econ Short=== 
**Transportation infrastructure’s crumbling now – this makes economic calamity an inevitability**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ASCE ’11 - </span>The American Society of Civil Engineers – a report prepared by the Economic Development Research Group, which focuses on evaluating economic development performance and opportunities. The group is comprised of economists and planners who specialize in transportation engineering. (“Failure to Act: The Economic Impact of Current Investment Trends in Surface Transportation Infrastructure” American Society of Civil Engineers Report, Summer 2011. [[http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Report_Card/ASCE-FailureToActFinal.pdf]])

The nation’s surface …… to competing product prices ¶ from around the globe.


**Even if economic collapse is slow, the perception is immediate and causes war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lieberthal and O’Hanlon ’12 - </span>Ken – Dir of the China Center and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings. And Michael – Dir of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy at Brookings.( “The Real National Security Threat: America’s Debt” The LA Times, 7/10/12)

Second, such …….. really possible if that fundamental prerequisite to effective foreign policy is not reestablished.



**The best studies prove growth stops conflict**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives, pg 213-215]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of …… As such the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>



**The alternative’s nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows ‘9 -</span>PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report ….. states</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">dog-eat-dog world.</span>



**The US is key to the global economy**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Suominen 12 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">(Kati Suominen is resident fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States in Washington. Her latest book is </span>[[@http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0804781540/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0804781540&linkCode=as2&tag=fopo-20|__Peerless and Periled: The Paradox of American Leadership in the World Economic Order__]]<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, “</span>[[@http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent|__America the Absent__]]<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> Why is the U.S. afraid to lead the global economic recovery?,” 7/6/12, </span>[[@http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=0,1|__http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=0,1__]]<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">)GANGEEZY</span>
The release of another ……., and growing world economy serves our national interests. But such a world is America's to make.


**The plan solves**
**Georefrencing is key to surface transportation**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chung and Shinozuka ‘4</span>
[Profs Engineering at UC Irvine. “Highway Surface Distress Inspection Using Remote Sensing” Space & Earth, 2004. Ebsco//GBS-JV]//
//An automated in-situ …. proposed. A new automated management tool with a¶ graphical user interface is also described.//

//**Independently – stimulus solves the economy**//
//**__Boushey 11__**, Heather Boushey is Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress. Sarah Ayres is a Research Associate working with the Economic Policy team at the Center. Michael Ettlinger is Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center, ("Job Creation Requires Spending," 9-7, www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/job_creation_spending.html//

//There is broad …… and none believes that real cuts are the order of the day.//

//**Planning and Satellite Integration**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McCord et al ‘2 - </span>Prof Civil Engineering at Ohio State. Et al. ( Mark “IMPROVING AADT AND VDT ESTIMATION WITH HIGH-RESOLUTION SATELLITE IMAGERY” 2002, [[http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXIV/part1/paper/00048.pdf]])//
//Transportation agencies ….¶ ground-based data collection efforts. ¶//



//**Independelty solves congestion and facilitates growth**//
//**Paska 9** - PhD of Geodetic Science from Ohio State. ( Eva “State of the Art Remote Sensing Geospatial Technologies in Support of Transportation Monitoring and Management” 2009, ProQuest Dissertation Database)//
//Federal and local government …. toward imaging technologies is expected to increase.//




//**Plan is key to City planning**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paska ‘9</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Eva. PhD of Geodetic Science from Ohio State. “State of the Art Remote Sensing Geospatial Technologies in Support of Transportation Monitoring and Management” 2009, ProQuest Dissertation Database </span>//GBS-JV]
The need for accurate and …... This is one of the overarching ideas of this dissertation.



**The plan’s key to integrate wide swaths of data**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hauser et al 11</span>**- Dir of the Center for Transportation Policy at University of North Carolina.( Edd “Remote Sensing for Bridge Monitoring” 2011, American Society of Civil Engineers Geotechnical Special Publication #214, 2011. Ebsco)
Before the infrastructure ….. context of infrastructure "total management".

===Econ Long=== 
**Transportation infrastructure’s crumbling now – this makes economic calamity an inevitability**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ASCE ’11 - </span>The American Society of Civil Engineers – a report prepared by the Economic Development Research Group, which focuses on evaluating economic development performance and opportunities. The group is comprised of economists and planners who specialize in transportation engineering. (“Failure to Act: The Economic Impact of Current Investment Trends in Surface Transportation Infrastructure” American Society of Civil Engineers Report, Summer 2011. [[http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Report_Card/ASCE-FailureToActFinal.pdf]])

The nation’s surface …… to competing product prices ¶ from around the globe.


**Even if economic collapse is slow, the perception is immediate and causes war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lieberthal and O’Hanlon ’12 - </span>Ken – Dir of the China Center and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings. And Michael – Dir of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy at Brookings.( “The Real National Security Threat: America’s Debt” The LA Times, 7/10/12)

Second, such …….. really possible if that fundamental prerequisite to effective foreign policy is not reestablished.



**The best studies prove growth stops conflict**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives, pg 213-215]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of …… As such the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>



**The alternative’s nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows ‘9 -</span>PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report ….. states</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">dog-eat-dog world.</span>



**The US is key to the global economy**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Suominen 12 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">(Kati Suominen is resident fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States in Washington. Her latest book is </span>[[@http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0804781540/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0804781540&linkCode=as2&tag=fopo-20|__Peerless and Periled: The Paradox of American Leadership in the World Economic Order__]]<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, “</span>[[@http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent|__America the Absent__]]<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> Why is the U.S. afraid to lead the global economic recovery?,” 7/6/12, </span>[[@http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=0,1|__http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=0,1__]]<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">)GANGEEZY</span>
The release of another ……., and growing world economy serves our national interests. But such a world is America's to make.


**The plan solves**
**Georefrencing is key to surface transportation**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chung and Shinozuka ‘4</span>
[Profs Engineering at UC Irvine. “Highway Surface Distress Inspection Using Remote Sensing” Space & Earth, 2004. Ebsco//GBS-JV]//
//An automated in-situ …. proposed. A new automated management tool with a¶ graphical user interface is also described.//

//**Independently – stimulus solves the economy**//
//**__Boushey 11__**, Heather Boushey is Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress. Sarah Ayres is a Research Associate working with the Economic Policy team at the Center. Michael Ettlinger is Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center, ("Job Creation Requires Spending," 9-7, www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/job_creation_spending.html//

//There is broad …… and none believes that real cuts are the order of the day.//

//**Planning and Satellite Integration**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McCord et al ‘2 - </span>Prof Civil Engineering at Ohio State. Et al. ( Mark “IMPROVING AADT AND VDT ESTIMATION WITH HIGH-RESOLUTION SATELLITE IMAGERY” 2002, [[http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXIV/part1/paper/00048.pdf]])//
//Transportation agencies ….¶ ground-based data collection efforts. ¶//



//**Independelty solves congestion and facilitates growth**//
//**Paska 9** - PhD of Geodetic Science from Ohio State. ( Eva “State of the Art Remote Sensing Geospatial Technologies in Support of Transportation Monitoring and Management” 2009, ProQuest Dissertation Database)//
//Federal and local government …. toward imaging technologies is expected to increase.//




//**Plan is key to City planning**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paska ‘9</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Eva. PhD of Geodetic Science from Ohio State. “State of the Art Remote Sensing Geospatial Technologies in Support of Transportation Monitoring and Management” 2009, ProQuest Dissertation Database </span>//GBS-JV]
The need for accurate and …... This is one of the overarching ideas of this dissertation.



**The plan’s key to integrate wide swaths of data**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hauser et al 11</span>**- Dir of the Center for Transportation Policy at University of North Carolina.( Edd “Remote Sensing for Bridge Monitoring” 2011, American Society of Civil Engineers Geotechnical Special Publication #214, 2011. Ebsco)
Before the infrastructure ….. context of infrastructure "total management".
===**Computing**=== 


**No data accruement or acquisition coming now**
**Paska 9** - PhD of Geodetic Science from Ohio State. ( Eva “State of the Art Remote Sensing Geospatial Technologies in Support of Transportation Monitoring and Management” 2009, ProQuest Dissertation Database)
No significant data acquisition platform …… observation of large areas on a regional scale¶ ([[http://ww3.psepc-sppcc.gc.ca/research/resactivites/CI/1999-D002_e.asp]]).

**Computer sciences lagging now – plan is key to solve and leads to future development**
**R&D 12** (R&D, News Agency dedicated to research and development, “Study: Computing advances vital to sustainability efforts,” http://www.rdmag.com/News/2012/06/Environment-Computing-Advances-Vital-To-Sustainability-Efforts/,Friday, June 29, 2012)

WASHINGTON — Innovation in computing will be ….., natural resource management, economics, and urban planning.

**Future transportation systems are inevitable but data and computer science is key to make sure everything works and is developed**
**Winter et al 10** (Stephan Winter: The University of Melbourne, Australia, Monika Sester: Leibniz University Hannover, Germany, Ouri Wolfson: University of Illinois, Chicago, USA, Glenn Geers: National ICT Australia, Sydney, Australia, ACM SIGMOD Record, Volume 39 Issue 3, September 2010 , Pages 27-32, http://www.cs.uic.edu/~boxu/mp2p/39-135-1-SM.pdf)

In the near future, vehicles, travelers, and ….. transportation science” seems to say it all.

**That creates a network effect that spills over—specifically to the high tech industry—the best research proves**
**Blecher 9**( Congress: Invest in Intelligent Transportation Systems to create jobs, By Scott Belcher, CEO and President, Intelligent Transportation Society of America, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/70623-congress-invest-in-intelligent-transportation-systems-to-create-jobs)bs
As Congressional leaders work to craft a ….., and an improved quality of life.

**Innovation of technological structure is key to the future sustainability of growth – solves the environment, biotech, famine**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Baker 2k</span>– Former Industrial Economist
Brent Barker, electrical engineer, and manager of corporate communications for the Electric Power Research Institute and former industrial economist and staff author at SRI International and as a commercial research analyst at USX Corporation, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability.” EPRI Journal, Summer, INFOTRAC
Sustainability has been the subject of much … generations everywhere in the world. That future begins now.

**And computational science is key to biotech innovation that is impossible in the squo**
**Strayer 4** (Michael Strayer, Acting Director of Mathematical, Informantion, and Computational Science Division of the US Department of Energy, September 19, 2004, http://science.energy.gov/~/media/ascr/pdf/program-documents/archive/Scales_report_vol2.pdf)

Progress in biology depends on the ……. can be accomplished in the future in biology.

**Key to food security**
**AFP** 7/22/**09** (Agence France-Presse, “Genetically Modified Rice ‘Crucial in Drought Battle’”, [[http://www.whybiotech.com/?p=968]])[jchen]
Genetic modification may be the only …… to reduce the need for pesticides.

**Nuke war**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">CRIBB 2010</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (</span>Julian, Julian Cribb is a science communicator, journalist and editor of several newspapers and books. His published work includes over 7,000 newspaper articles, 1,000 broadcasts, and three books and has received 32 awards for science, medical, agricultural and business journalism. He was Director, National Awareness, for Australia's science agency, CSIRO, foundation president of the Australian Science Communicators, and originated the CGIAR's Future Harvest strategy. He has worked as a newspaper editor, science editor for "The Australian "and head of public affairs for CSIRO. He runs his own science communication consultancy, “The coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” p. 26)
This is the most likely means by which the …. peoples' need to secure them.

**Biotech solves deforestation and industrial pesticides**

**McGloughlin 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Martina McGloughlin is a professor @ UC Davis, Journal of Agrobiotechnology Management, Ten Reasons Why Biotechnology Will Be Important to the Developing World, [[http://www.agbioforum.org/v2n34/v2n34a04-mcgloughlin.htm]]</span>
Biotechnology companies, national and international ….. and cheaper than before the introduction of biotechnology crops__?__
**Amazon biodiversity key to solve extinction**
**Takacs 1996** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David Takacs, THE IDEA OF DIVERSITY: PHILOSOPHIES OF PARADISE, 1996, p. 200-1.]</span>
So biodiversity keeps the world running. ….. some time before the end of the next century - not with a bang but a whimper.

**Industrial pesticides cause extinction**
**WDP 97—**Western Daily Press, 10/6/1997. “Diana's gone all sari-eyed,” Lexis.
For new research claims that PMT - which is supposed to be due to drops in oestrogen levels - is a myth, it's all in the mind, just an excuse used by women when they have those perfectly normal random bouts of ….. might also cause a teensy- weensy bit of disturbance in women now and again?

**So does oxygen loss**
**Tatchell 8** – human rights activist, internally quotes ecologists (Peter, 8/13, The oxygen crisis, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/13/carbonemissions.climatechange, AG)
Compared to prehistoric times, the level of oxygen in the …. global fish supplies.

===Terrorism=== 
**Terrorism’s inevitable**
<span class="AuthorYear">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bunn et al 11</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and CoPrincipal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Colonel Yuri Morozov (retired Russian Armed Forces). Professor of the Russian Academy of Military Sciences and senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, chief of department at the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces, 1995–2000 Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy, 2005–2008. Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Moscow-based defense and security expert and writer, 1993–2008 William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and director of the U.S.-Russia Initiative to Prevent Nuclear Terrorism, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. Vladimir Lukov, director general of autonomous non-profit organization “CounterTerrorism Center.” “ The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism” May 2011 [[http://dash.harvard.edu/bitstream/handle/1/8160716/Bunn-USRussiaJointThreat.pdf)bs]]</span>
Terrorists are aspiring …… and access to materials, designs, and potential victims.


**Biological agents are likely**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graham and Talent 12 - </span>senator, chair of the Graham-Talent WMD Commission, James, senator, vice chair of the Graham-Talent WMD Commission, ( bob “Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism Report Card, An Assessment of the U.S. Government’s Progress in Protecting the United States from Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism,” [[@http://www.preventwmd.gov/publications/]])
In December 2008, the ….. clock is ticking, and time is running out.


**Acquisition’s likely and containment measures fail**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CSIS ‘6</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[The Center for Strategic International Studies. “Strategic Study on Bioterrorism” 2006, [[@http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/061016_bioterrorism.pdf]]//JVoss]//</span>
//Bio-agents are readily ….. at the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, for example, more than half the researchers are older than 45, and only 15 percent are between the age of 30 and 45.18 n//



//**Causes extinction**//
//**Ayson 10 -** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” </span>//Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)//
//A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear …….. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.//


//**Bioweapon release causes extinction**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 2002</span> - (Richard, Member – Chemical Weapons Working Group, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately, 6-9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)//
//Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the ……? Human extinction is now possible.//


//**We solve – deterrence, detection, and containment**//
//**Budge and Williamson 5**- Ray A., Research Professor of International Affairs and Space Policy in the Space Policy Institute of The George Washington University; & Amelia, Clearinghouse Manager Earth Data Analysis Center University of New Mexico;( “Improving Surface Transportation Security: The Role of Geospatial Technologies in Intermodal Freight and Hazardous Materials Transport” Imaging Notes vol. 20 no.3; Fall 2005; http://www.imagingnotes.com/go/article_free.php?mp_id=20)//
//The effects of the frightening terrorist attacks on the …… (of format, metadata, georeferencing) and connectivity.¶//

//**sniffers solve if all else fails**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williamson ‘2</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Ray A. Williamson, Research Professor of International Affairs and Space Policy in the Space Policy Institute of The George Washington University “Remote Sensing and Transportation Security” http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXIV/part1/paper/00082.pdf</span>//JVoss]
Detect Biological and Chemical …… they enter harbor areas.
===Solvency=== 
**Status quo monitoring is wholly ineffective because aerial satellites lack a stable point of reference – terrestrial sensors are key**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paska 9</span>** - PhD of Geodetic Science from Ohio State. ( Eva “State of the Art Remote Sensing Geospatial Technologies in Support of Transportation Monitoring and Management” 2009, ProQuest Dissertation Database)
One way of characterizing these ….. in satellite imagery and groundbased¶ data to improve AADT estimates<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**The plan achieves global, continuous monitoring of transportation infrastructure**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ansari et al 12 -</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">.</span> Prof Engineering at the University of Chicago. And Tzu-Yang Yu and Chris Niezrecki – Profs Engineering and Physics (Respectively) at Mass-Lowell. “Muti-Modal Remote Sensing System for Transportation Infrastructure Inspection and Monitoring” Advanced Research in Applied Artificial Intelligence. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol 7345. Summer 2012. SpringerLink)
Existing highway bridge …., evaluation and rating of bridges. Overview of MRSS is¶ described in the following section.



**That information interoperability’s key to preparedness**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williamson 2</span>** - Ray A. Williamson, Research Professor of International Affairs and Space Policy in the Space Policy Institute of The George Washington University (“Remote Sensing and Transportation Security” http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXIV/part1/paper/00082.pdf)

Finding One: Local, state, and …….. reduce duplication and redundancies.





==Russia SciFi== 
===Plan=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Bobby and I ask you to imagine that the United States federal government increases its investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States necessary to complete a fixed-link Bering Strait crossing.**</span>
===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Advantage </span>=== 
In 1905 Czar Nicholas II approved the Bering Strait tunnel project – all plans were dashed after WWI and the Russian Revolution as the world plunged into a century of war, hate, and great power competition – with its recent approval from the Kremlin, the Bering Strait plan has been revitalized as a unique act of imagination which recalls inspiring science fiction of the past—it’s a symbol of hope for global cooperation
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">MORRISON 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard, “A train trip from Moscow to New York?; The proposed construction of a tunnel linking the rail networks of Russia and North America is a brave new world indeed,” The Times, August 26, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now, however, it seems ….New York as a 90th birthday treat.</span>

Unfortunately, American perceptions of Russia vacillate between extremes of cultural relativism and economic universalism. Current attitudes towards Russian technological projects stems from an unresolved mix of contempt and fascination
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**ENGERMAN 2003**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Engerman is Assistant Professor of History at Brandeis University, Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development, p. 7-11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American ideas about Russia's ……political views and divergent personal experiences.</span>

This is particularly true of the Bering Strait tunnel. An article in one of the West’s most prestigious newspapers exemplifies the condescending stereotypes of Russian madness that are applied to the Bering Strait plan. Russians are depicted as irrational zealots, obsessed with dreams of gigantic megaprojects despite their backwardness and inferiority, yet even this critic feels the pull of imagination in the Bering Strait tunnel
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">WHITTELL 2001</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Giles, “Oh no, Ivan, spare us another big idea,” The Times, Jan 6, lexis)</span>
__...The Bering tunnel is a ……__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">who follow them for the exotic dateline </span>__what on earth would travel along a Bering tunnel__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This example represents a broader trend of pitting Russia against the United States which spills over into our daily lives. The effect of Russian stereotypes outweighs topic education—we will forget the details we learn but retain a general impression of Russia</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">WASHBURN AND BURKE 1997</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Philo, Purdue University, and Barbara, U of Minn Morris, “The Symbolic Construction of Russia and the United States on Russian National Television,” Sociological Quarterly, September)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Numerous analysis have argued that </span>__…..____The power involved here is an ideological power; the power to signify events in a particular way__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Depicting Russia as a foreign Other located in a distant Asia apart from the West and incapable of technological transformation encourages violence and constructs an enemy relationship
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ENGERMAN 2003</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Engerman is Assistant Professor of History at Brandeis University, Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development, p. 2-4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These questions redounded around the world in the twentieth century. </span>__…..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, dominated American writings until the 1920s.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These cultural discourses determine policy towards Russia</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">VAN EFFERINK 2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Leonhardt, MSc in Financial Economics at Erasmus University Rotterdam and an MA in 'Geopolitics, Territory and Security' at King’s College London. He is now working on a PhD with Royal Holloway’s (University of London), “Polar Partner or Poles Apart?” PSA Graduate Network Conference December 2010, http://www.psa.ac.uk/spgrp/51/2010/Ppr/PGC2_Van%20EfferinkLeonhardt_Polar_Partners_or_Poles_Apart_PSA_2010.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The term ‘critical geopolitics’ had already been ……</span> __degeographicalises and depoliticises knowledge__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Otherization of Russia results in real hostility
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">LIEVEN 2001 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anatol, Senior Associate for Foreign and Security policy at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Against Russophobia,” World Policy Journal, Winter, http://www.worldpolicy.newschool.edu/journal/lieven.html)</span>
__Russophobia today ….. will sooner or later **find them everywhere**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Interrogating our perceptions of Russia is key to good foreign policy education overall—the same condescending discourses are spread to others
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">LIEVEN 2001 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anatol, Senior Associate for Foreign and Security policy at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Against Russophobia,” World Policy Journal, Winter, http://www.worldpolicy.newschool.edu/journal/lieven.html)</span>
__Ever since the Cold …… racism, in which certain nations are classed as irrationally, irredeemably savage and wicked__

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">That makes extinction inevitable—survival is only possible by imagining our connections to others</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">KEEN 1986</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sam, author, contributing editor of Psychology Today, Faces of the Enemy: Reflections of the Hostile Imagination: The Psychology of Enmity, p. 135-136)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The two major problems that will have to be solved …..</span> __if we cannot get beyond hostility to kinship__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


We must take a leap of imagination—the Bering Strait link is being killed by focus on the details of implementation and the fear of risk. We should start by imagining the crossing, not by debating how government policy is implemented
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">OLIVER 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, writer and journalist, The Bering Strait Crossing: A 21st Century Frontier Between East and West, 216-219)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'North by Northwest', now </span>__it is …..<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> this 21st century frontier between East and West, **must be confronted**. **This is the crossing point**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Our framing of the aff is a bridge to others—we explore the tension between universalism and relativism in Western perceptions of Russian infrastructure projects</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**ENGERMAN 2003**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Engerman is Assistant Professor of History at Brandeis University, Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development, p. 13-14)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Considering questions of economic ….. all-too-present ghosts of cultural difference and modernization</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The plan is a utopian imagination of technology asserted against the gradual erosion of hope that accompanies the focus on detail. Reclaiming the narrative of technological utopianism does not mean embracing all technologies, but it does prevent the destruction of all human meaning</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Leong 2003</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Leong Hang-tat, Ph.D. candidate at the Chinese University of Hong Kong in philosophy, “Ideology and Utopia in Science Fiction”, ProQuest) BW</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mannheim concludes his analysis of the concept …. transcendence of Kelvin and Bowman in Solaris and 2001 respectively.</span>


Our call to imagine what the government might do forces us out of our current subject position—the ability to imagine another role is the foundation of ethical engagement with the Other
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">EPSTEIN 1999</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mikhail, Associate Professor in the Department of Russian and East Asian Languages and Cultures at Emory University, Transcultural Experiments: Russian and American Models of Creative Communication, p. 164-166</span>
__Transcultural theory needs to articulate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> possibilities that is certainly most appealing to the capacities of the imagination</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The policy interpretation of fiat makes ethical engagement with others impossible. We should imagine possibilities rather than legislate commands</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">EPSTEIN 1999</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mikhail, Associate Professor in the Department of Russian and East Asian Languages and Cultures at Emory University, Transcultural Experiments: Russian and American Models of Creative Communication, p. 166-168)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Though ethics is usually presented as …..</span> __ethics based on imagining others as different from ourselves and **imagining ourselves as possibilities for others**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Reimagining __[[#|technology]]__ is critical to overcome threats to human survival—we must imagine an alternative technological society that brings us together in a common project
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fresco and Meadows 07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jacque & Roxanne; Structural designer, architectural designer, philosopher of science, concept artist, educator, and futurist, founder of The Venus Project; B.F.A. from Maryland Institute of Art. She studied technical and architectural rendering and model making under Jacque Fresco for 4 years; “Designing the Future”)//RSW//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to many polls, a majority of ….change that threatened the status quo.</span>//

//Our act of imagination solves this—the Bering Strait tunnel is the key metaphor to overcome other threats//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GERLICZ 2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (By Dr. Claude Gaudeau de Gerlicz, Chair, Bioespas, Bioinformatic and Biotechnology Laboratory, France, “Great Projects as Potential Peace Engines,” March 19, http://www.upf.org/bering-strait-project/193-bering-strait-research/1682-great-projects-as-potential-peace-engines)</span>//
//__Humanity has always sought ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Construction of a tunnel was to be undertaken by a New Jersey construction company under a 90-year contract.*</span>//

//Every act of imagination has elements of science fiction—the very nature of fiat makes describing the “real world” impossible since every plan is a fictional alternative//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">FREEDMAN 2000</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Associate Professor of English at Louisiana State University (Carl, “Critical Theory and Science Fiction” Wesleyan University Press, University Press of London, 20-22)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is a priori likely that </span>__most texts ……__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of genre that we may not reconsider the apparently difficult cases of Brecht, on the one hand, and </span>//Star Wars// on the other.

Traditional conceptions of government fiat are also fiction, they simply present themselves as fact—fiat misrepresents the process of government decision-making, which means it’s neither educational nor predictable
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CLAUDE 1988</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Inis, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, University of Virginia, States and the Global System, pages 18-20)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This view of the state as an institutional …</span>__, purposefulness and discipline that theory attributes to them–and that they sometimes claim.__

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Our act of imagination shapes world politics—representations create the world and are inextricably linked to policy</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">WELDES 2003 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Lecturer, Bristol University; PhD (Minn) (Jutta, “Popular culture, science fiction, and world politics: exploring inter textual relations” in “To seek out new worlds: science fiction and world politics” ed. Weldes, Palgrave Macmillan 2003, 12-13)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But this is at best a partial understanding …. “access what IR theory says, how it plots its story, and how all this together gives us a particular vision of the world” (2001: 132, emphasis added).</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Our model of fiat is better for policy-making—we should imagine alternative worlds even if they’re technically impossible, which means you should vote aff even if the Bering Strait tunnel is impossible</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">LIPPARD 2010 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Sr. Security Product Manager for Global Crossing and a Ph.D. student in Human and Social Dimensions of Science and Technology at Arizona State University (April 29, Jim, “ Science fiction scenarios and public engagement with science ” [[http://lippard.blogspot.com/2010/04/science-fiction-scenarios-and-public.html]])</span>
__Science fiction has been__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a </span>__popular__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ……</span>__are just as, if not more important than the ideas about the technologies themselves.__

==Russia Policy== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States necessary to complete a fixed-link Bering Strait crossing.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
===Relations=== 
Advantage 1: Relations
US-Russian relations are deteriorating—the plan is key to overcome other sources of conflict
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">KIRACOFE 6/24/12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [Clifford A. Kiracofe, teaches political science at Washington and Lee __[[#|University and]]__ history at the Virginia Military Institute. He was formerly a Senior Professional Staff Member of the United States Senate on Foreign Relations and has extensive inside experience of American federal government,June 24, 2012, “US, Russia need to see their ties grow”, Global Times, [[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the interest of world peace and … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">whatever the outcome of the US elections in November. </span>



The reset with Russia has stalled – renewed cooperation is necessary to prevent escalating tensions and relations collapse
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Allison 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, Graham, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy __[[#|School]]__ and a former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Robert D. Blackwill is the Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, General Charles G. Boyd, U.S. Air Force (Ret.), is the Starr Distinguished National Security Fellow at the Center for the National Interest, Richard Burt serves as managing director at McLarty Associates, where he has led the firm’s __[[#|work]]__ in Europe and Eurasia since 2007, Ambassador James F. Collins was appointed the director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in January of 2007, John Deutch is an Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. Richard A. Falkenrath is a Principal with The Chertoff Group, Thomas Graham is a managing director at Kissinger Associates, Inc., where he focuses on Russian and Eurasian affairs, Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International __[[#|Studies]]__ and Associate Professor of International Relations at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, Mr. Maurice R. Greenberg is Chairman and CEO of C. V. Starr and Co., Inc, Dr. Fiona Hill is director of the Center on the United States and Europe, and senior fellow in the Foreign Policy __[[#|Studies Program]]__ at The Brookings Institution, General James Jones, USMC (Ret) was appointed as the 22nd National Security Advisor to the President of the United States on January 20, 2009, Kenneth I. Juster is a partner and managing director at the global private equity firm Warburg Pincus, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad is a counselor at the Center for Strategic and International __[[#|Studies]]__, General Richard B. Myers retired as the 15th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 2005, Sam Nunn is Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a __[[#|charitable]]__ organization __[[#|working]]__ to reduce the global threats from nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, Paul Saunders is Executive Director of the Center for the National Interest and Associate Publisher of The National Interest, [“Russia and U.S. National Interests Why Should Americans Care?” October, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs] HURWITZ</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Just as the United States should expect Russia to…, or the pace of democratic change in Russia. </span>

The aff cements a permanent peace of US-Russia cooperation
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Barry 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [ Mark P. Barry, //Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace,// October 04, 2011//,// “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]],]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The Russian Impact on the U.S. and Canada</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Aside from building an ACRL, which would be the foundational … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> of permanent peace-building. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia’s key </span>**<span class="Heading4Char">to</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> make international cooperation effective</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rojansky and Collins 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409]],)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">year and a half after</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and avoid new barriers to investment or trade.</span>



Solves extinction
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ikenberry, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, “A World of Our Making,” Spring,[[@http://www.democracyjournal.org/20/a-world-of-our-making.php?page=all]])</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Grand strategy is a set of coordinated and … collective problems.</span>



Independently, Russian cooperation salvages climate talks and prevents rapid warming
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Charap et al 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Samuel Charap, Fellow in National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Laura Conley, Special Assistant for National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Peter Juul, Research Associate at the Center for American Progress; Andrew Light, Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress specializing in climate, energy, and science policy; Julian L. Wong, Senior Policy Analyst with the Energy Opportunity team at the Center for American Progress, July 2009, “After the “Reset”: A strategy and new agenda for U.S. Russia policy”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Enhancing cooperation on energy efficiency and … only backfire in the Russian context.</span>



Extinction
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Costello 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">environments uninhabitable</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US-Russia cooperation prevents Arctic instability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Charap et al 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Samuel Charap, Fellow in National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Laura Conley, Special Assistant for National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress; Peter Juul, Research Associate at the Center for American Progress; Andrew Light, Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress specializing in climate, energy, and science policy; Julian L. Wong, Senior Policy Analyst with the Energy Opportunity team at the Center for American Progress, July 2009, “After the “Reset”: A strategy and new agenda for U.S. Russia policy”] Gangeezy</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Arctic is</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">emerging as </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… with Russia on a range of Arctic issues.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Artic conflicts go nuclear </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Smith 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael Wallace Smith, //Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia and Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa//. March 2010, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue”. Canadian Pugwash Group. [[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jayantha Dhanapala, President … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">military confrontation can be taken lightly</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

===RFE=== 

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Advantage Two: the Russian Far East</span>**</span>

Bering Strait tunnel is key to Russian Far East development—now is key
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">RUSDATA DIALINE -</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">RUSSIAN PRESS DIGEST 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (“Yakutsk dreams of traveling to America by railway,” August 19, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">According to Razbegin, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… continents will be connected</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

The plan would draw world attention and overcome barriers to __[[#|investment]]__
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">DALZIEL 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Stephen, executive director of the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce, “From London to New York via Siberia on train;” This online supplement is produced and published by Rossiyskaya Gazeta (Russia), which takes sole responsibility for the content, The Telegraph, Oct 15, lexis)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia's size is a blessing … , or to put a man on the Moon</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



Infrastructure development in the Russian Far East is key to prevent Chinese encroachment
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">BLAGOV 2007 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Sergei, Moscow-based analyst for ISN Security Watch, EnerPub, April 2, [[http://www.energypublisher.com/article.asp?idarticle=8786]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">However, critics have questioned the strategic …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> of the far east of Russia</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The rail links will solve the population drain</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">BARRY 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, “Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada,” Oct 4, [[http://www.upf.org/component/content/article/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">First, West Coast American … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(and populate) this region</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

The impact is nuclear winter
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">SHARAVIN 2001 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Alexander, Director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis, What the Papers Say, Oct 3)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Now, a few words about the third type of war. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">even against </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the first frost of a</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> possible </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">nuclear winter</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Integrating RFE resources is key to overall Russian stability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GARNETT 2000</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Sherman, Dean of James Madison College at MSU, Rapprochement or Rivalry? p34)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Finally, the </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">integration of the </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">on shaping the future of all Asia.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Instability causes a nuclear strike on the US </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">PRY 1999 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Peter Vincent, Former US Intelligence Operative, War Scare: U.S.-Russia on the Nuclear Brink, netlibrary)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russian internal </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">one-sided Russian affairs, with the West ignorant that it was in grave peril.</span>

The plan solves overall Russian growth
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ARSENOV 1993 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(V. I. Arsenov, Ministry of Economics of the Russian Federation, “INTERCONTINENTAL RAILROAD AND TUNNEL THROUGH THE BERING STRAIT,” 05/1993 , Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering Vol. 30, Issue 3, Online) Gangeezy</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The project of </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Western Siberian oil and gas complex.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transit revenues independently help the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">RAZBEGIN 2007 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">- deputy head of industrial research at Russia's Economic and Trade Development Ministry <Victor. “Eurasia-North America Multimodal Transport” Executive Intelligence Review. LaRouche Publications. 34.38 Pgs 36-42. [[http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n38-20070928/36-42_738.pdf%3e/CS|http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n38-20070928/36-42_738.pdf>//CS]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This 6,000 km-rail line could … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">and his colleague, Anneli Avatare (Table 1). </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bering Strait tunnel is key to Russian economic development and influence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ASSOCIATED PRESS 2007</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Hopes for Bering Strait tunnel linking Russia and Alaska revived, April 20, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">An idea first mulled in …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">influence and might as the world leaders</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">," the statement said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Decline multiple scenarios for CBW conflict</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> OLIKER AND CHARLICK-PALEY 2002</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Olga and Tanya, RAND Corporation Project Air Force, “Assessing Russia’s Decline,” [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1442/|www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1442/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The preceding chapters have … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">risk of nuclear war</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ochs 2002</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, Member – Chemical Weapons Working Group, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately, 6-9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… is now possible.</span>
===Solvency=== 

Russia is fully committed to a Bering Strait tunnel—US support is the key barrier and the project would permanently cement US-Russian relations and Russian Far East development
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">MOSCOW NEWS 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (“Tunneling to America?” April 28, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Russia's Urals oil has been over $100 a …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">could be **welded in steel**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



The plan incorporates other nations to ensure stability
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Barry 11- </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, ( Mark October 04, 2011, “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A Bering Strait tunnel </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">would be important, if not vital, for the project.</span>

Russia is already building rail links to complete a Bering Strait tunnel—US infrastructure in Alaska is key
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ASIAN NEWS INTERNATIONAL 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (“Russia set to complete extension rail network to Siberia by 2030,” August 23, lexis)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia is **all set** to </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… in Canada and onwards</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

The tunnel will be __[[#|completed]]__ by 2019
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">BURROUGHS 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Given sufficient funding</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> over the next … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">dates in world history</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



Shipping will rapidly pay for itself
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">BURROUGHS 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Once an intercontinental … rapidly</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> after its opening</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US and Russia are key—other countries will get on board</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">RUSSIA & CIS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWSWIRE 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (“Russian Railways chief believes tunnel can be built under Bering Strait,” April 9, lexis)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A decision</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> on building a tunnel … is **inevitable**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">," he said.</span>

The Bering Strait is geologically stable
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">OLIVER 2007</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (James, writer and journalist, The Bering Strait Crossing: A 21st Century Frontier Between East and West, 195-196)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">In view of this unsettled general … extension (northeast-southwest.)1</span>

== == 
==NextGen== 

===Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in Next Generation Air Traffic Management transportation infrastructure in the United States.**
===Terrorism=== 

NextGen increases security against terrorism by providing full air situational awareness
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**JPDO 11**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joint Planning Development Office, November, “Integrated Air Surveillance Concept of Operations”, [[http://www.jpdo.gov/library/20120215_Integrated_Air_Surveillance_ConOps_Endorsed.pdf]])</span>
__A combination of newly developed, deployed, or planned procedures and technological advances for the NAS make NextGen goals attainable__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Next Generation Air Transportation .... involve smuggling in a nuclear weapon from abroad (Allison 2004).</span>


Nuclear terrorism at an airport is likely and devastating

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**McLay**</span>, Assistant Professor Department of Statistical Sciences and Operations Research, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">et al., **11**</span>

Laura A. McLay, Assistant Professor Department of Statistical Sciences and Operations Research, et al., Rebecca A. Dreiding· Garrett L. Howe, 11, [“Rethinking the encounter probability for direct-to-target nuclear attacks for aviation security,” J Transp Secur (2011) 4:247–280, http://rd.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12198-011-0070-7]


__A nuclear attack__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> within the ...involve smuggling in a nuclear weapon from abroad (Allison 2004).</span>



**Extinction**
**Ayson 10 -** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” //Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear ... for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>


===Interoperability=== 

Internal Links

NextGen provides interoperability between military and U.S. airspace
**Babbitt 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J. Randolph Babbitt, administrator of the FAA, “Air Traffic Control Association Convention - "Cooperation, Collaboration and Interoperability", 10/05/09, AD: 07/12/12, [[http://www.atc-network.com/News/31385/Air-Traffic-Control-Association-Convention-Cooperation-Collaboration-and-Interoperability-]] | Kushal)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As always, kudos to ATCA on a good show. But before ...</span> __is up to us all of us.__

Interoperability enhances military capabilities
**ICAO 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(International Civil Aviation Organization, “Civil/Military Cooperation in Air Traffic Management”, 2011, AD: 07/13/12, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=8&ved=0CGIQFjAH&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.paris.icao.int%2Fdocuments_open_meetings%2Fdownload.php%3Fmaincategory%3D200%26subcategory%3D203%26file%3DCirc%2520330_en.pdf&ei=1zIAUJGmOuXg2wWE44yWBA&usg=AFQjCNHw_Ec1jE3aHt0DdL0hta9q-T_ZZg&sig2=JDVknbEwPcEZdq-UJqeORg]] | Kushal)</span>

__Interoperability__ __at the ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as required.</span>

CMR Scenario

NextGen provides trust, integration, and transparency – that’s key to CMR
Ruwantissa **Abeyrante**, Ph.D. Coordinator for IACO, **2003**, Managing Airspace in Civil and Military Aviation, Cambridge Press, http://www.saa.com.sg/saaWeb2011/export/sites/saa/en/About_Us/downloads/Managing_Airspace_Civil_Military_Aviation.pdf
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">At the Global Air Traffic Management ... capacity and environmental protection. </span>

**It’s not resilient – structural factors make collapse likely**
**Bryan 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ian, Lieutenant Colonel Ian Bryan is an Active-duty Tennessee Air National Guardsman and a Professor of Strategic Studies in the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies at Air University. “Know Yourself Before the Enemy: MILITARY PROFESSIONALISM’S CIVIL FOUNDATION” [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-62/JFQ62_32-36_Bryan.pdf]]) BW</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">General</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Richard </span>Myers, Chairman ... impinge on the homeland.

**Promoting dialogue between civil and military authorities is key**
**Owens 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.fpri.org/about/people/owens.html|Mackubin "Mac" Owens]] is Professor of National Security Affairs at the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island. He is also editor of [[http://www.fpri.org/orbis/|Orbis]]journal and a Senior Fellow in FPRI's [[http://www.fpri.org/research/nationalsecurity/|Program on National Security]]. This month, his new book, US Civil-Military Relations After 9/11: Renegotiating the Civil-Military Bargain, will be published by Continuum) GANGEEZY</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Thus, the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> most significant </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">lessons ... leadership and the military</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**Unilateral military activism depletes the benefits of U.S. primacy by over-identifying threats and lowering the threshold for initiating and escalating conflict**
**Conetta ‘8** <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Carl J. Conetta, Co-Director of the Project for Defense Alternatives, former Research Fellow, Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, “Forceful Engagement: Rethinking the Role of Military Power in US Global Policy,” Project on Defense Alternatives, December 2008, [[http://www.comw.org/pda/081201ForcefulEngagement.htm]])</span>

__A key objective of the new .,.__ __security environment that privileges military action__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Lack of CMR will gut our military capabilities and foreign policy**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Kohn**</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of History, University of North Carolina-</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**99**</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">FDCH POLITICAL TRANSCRIPTS, November 4, ‘99, p. Nexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">My focus is ...</span><span class="TitleChar"> policy.</span>

**Hegemony key to solve great power war**
**Zhang and Shi 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the </span>__global distribution .,..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**Social science proves**
**Wohlforth 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is why such theories </span><span style="background-color: aqua;"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> inherently </span><span style="background-color: aqua;">scarce, and competitions </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for status </span><span style="background-color: aqua;">tend to be zero sum</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.**9**</span>

**So do empirics**
**Drezner 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres ... the use of force potentially more attractive, because of the minimization of spillover effects.</span>

**There’s no root cause of war – only deterrence can solve**
**Moore 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, pages 41-2.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If major interstate war is predominantly a ... increased or decreased?</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Decline of CMR risks accidental launches**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Sagan**</span>, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Associate Professor of Political Science and Chair of the International Relations Program, Stanford University, and a consultant to the Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Office of the Secretary of defense, and the Los Alamos National Laboratory,</span> <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**’95**</span> [<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate, this is Sagan’s response to Waltz, Ford Professor of Political Science, UC Berkeley, pg. 83]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span><span style="background-color: aqua;">accident‑prone ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">than previously recognized.</span>

Extinction
**FORROW ET AL 1998** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A missile launch activated by ...</span> __result in billions of__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> direct and indirect </span>__casualties worldwide.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">4</span>

Miscalculation Scenario

<span class="cite">Miscalc is likely with NORAD because of fly-overs – interpreted as nuclear attacks</span>
<span class="cite">Podvig 2006</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Pavel Podvig, researcher at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, December 2006, “Russia and the Prompt Global Strike Plan,” CSIS PONARS Policy Memo No. 417, online: http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/pm_0417.pdf</span>

The probability of ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>misinterpretations<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

Agency interoperability in airspace solves miscalc – otherwise US responses are inevitable
Christopher **Bolkcom**- Specialist in National Defense Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division-June 6, 20**06**, “Defending U.S. Airspace”, Homeland security, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RS21394.pdf]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Command & Control. Several options exist . ... the best mix, however, may be critical. </span>

**Incomplete information about the US response will force Russia to retaliate with nukes**
**NTRC 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [The Nuclear Threat Reduction Campaign (NTRC), a joint project of Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and The Justice Project, educates and mobilizes key constituencies on a centrist, bipartisan basis to advance public policy that reduces the threat posed by nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, “U.S.-Russian Ballistic-Missile Early-Warning Cooperation,” [[http://www.veteransforamerica.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/01/22-early-warning-final.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__deficiencies ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> launch a retaliatory response.9</span>

**The impact is extinction in 30 minutes**
**Helfand and Pastore 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John, Ira – Physicians for Social Responsibility. ”US-Russia Nuclear War is Still a Threat” [[http://www.projo.com/|www.projo.com]], 3/31/9 //GBS-JV]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the end of the </span> __...__ __would become extinc__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">t</span>.


=2AC Blocks - ALL AFFS= 
==Jparc== 
===Disads=== 
====<span style="font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; line-height: 1.5;">ptx </span>==== 


**Sequester sapped obamas PC / Bipart– he cant anything done on his agenda anymore**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kraushaar 2/28 </span>([[http://www.nationaljournal.com/reporters/bio/15|Josh Kraushaar]], Managing Editor, Politics, “President Obama’s Losing Hand on the Sequester Fight,” February 28, 2013, [[http://www.nationaljournal.com/columns/against-the-grain/president-obama-s-losing-hand-on-the-sequester-fight-20130228]]) GANGEEZY
To understand why <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the White House is</span> ….<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> ahead in this messy fiscal fight. </span>

**PC theory is wrong- winners win**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hirsh, 2-7</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– National Journal chief correspondent, citing various political scientists</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, former Newsweek senior correspondent, "There’s No Such Thing as Political Capital," National Journal, 2-9-13, www.nationaljournal.com/magazine/there-s-no-such-thing-as-political-capital-20130207, accessed 2-8-13, mss]</span>
__The idea__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of political capital—or mandates, or momentum—</span>__….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.” Johnson had the skill and wherewithal to realize that, at that moment of history, he could have unlimited coinage if he handled the politics right. He did. (At least until Vietnam, that is.)</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congress views defense spending as sacred. </span>**
<span style="background-color: white; text-align: start;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">McLaughlin 11</span>** **<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Seth McLaughlin, staff writer for The Washington Times, March 23, 2011, “Defense cuts a tough sell in bid to curb deficit”, Washington Times, <span style="text-decoration: initial;">[[@http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/mar/23/defense-cuts-a-tough-sell-in-bid-to-curb-deficit/?page=all#pagebreak|http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/mar/23/defense-cuts-a-tough-sell-in-bid-to-curb-deficit/?page=all#pagebreak]]</span>)</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Congressional leaders … and we simply can’t balance the budget by cutting non-military spending.”</span>
**Studies**
<span class="tagChar">Miller 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank (Morris, Winter, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol. 25, Iss. 4, “Poverty as a cause of wars?”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question may be …, the ruling elites responded to crises by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).</span>


**Obama losing immigration still results in high-skill reform**
Matthew <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yglesias</span>, Slate, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1/15</span>/13, How the GOP Can Roll Obama on Immigration, www.slate.com/blogs/moneybox/2013/01/15/immigration_reform_will_obama_get_rolled.html

Of the major … hate would require the kind of fanaticism that is the exact opposite of Obama's approach to politics.



==Dbils== 
===Critiques=== 
====Anthro..... Thanks Noah and Nikhil==== 
**Framework –Iraq proves it turns the K**
**Žižek 2007** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Slavoj, Professor of Philosophy at Institute of Social Sciences at University of Ljubljana “Resistance Is Surrender”) BW</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Simon </span>__Critchley’s__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> recent </span>__book__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Infinitely ……</span> **__finite demands, which can’t be met with the same excuse__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**Everything humans do is a result of genetic impulses, which means everything is natural – they link to themselves**
**Siipi 2008** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Helena, researcher in the University of Turku, Finland, “Dimensions of Naturalness,” Ethics & the Environment, Vol. 13, No. 1, Spring 2008. Ebsco//GBS-JV]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span class="underline">this distinction between</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …..</span><span class="underline">, and spontaneous ways of action are seen as less natural for us</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**The inclusion of nonhuman and the rejection of human superiority empowers the rise of a genetically modified elite to rule society**
**Grigg 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Norman, The Clone Wars, The New American, http://thenewamerican.com/node/1246</span>
__Transhumanists__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as Stock’s book title ….. </span>__and what they imply__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for our future.”</span>

**The military will coopt this and cause worse forms of humanity – turns case and causes independent extinction of all life**
**Gray, 2002** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rober, Author and Reporter,The unstoppable march of the clones: we have failed to control the spread of nuclear weapons. So how can we hope to control the development of designer babies and other results of biotechnology, New Statesman Vol. 131</span>
__The military uses of ….: they will reproduce some of the worst features of unregenerate humanity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



==Geospatial aff== 
===Topicality=== 
====Transportation Infrastructure==== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**We invst in ti** </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> TRB ‘2k</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[The Transportation Research Board – of the National Academies. A Group of more than 30 Engineers and Experts in the Field. “Remote Sensing for Transportation” 2000 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/conf/reports/remote_sensing_1.pdf]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The program …..</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> modal</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> administration.</span>


**transportation infrastructure project is something that constructs, alters, or repairs transportation infrastructure**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AJA 2011</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“American Jobs Act”, 9/12/11, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(9) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- ….. the Board of Directors.</span>

**We are transportation infrastructure**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Saikia et al ‘10</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[Mimi Das. Prof Civil Engineering at Guwahati. __Elements of Civil Engineering__, 2010, Pg 4. GoogleBooks//GBS-JV]//</span>
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Transportation engineering …..</span>// pavement engineering, Intelligent Transportation System (ITS), and infrastructure management//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Add ons=== 
====Steel==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**K2 steal and manufacturing** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AISI 2k12</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(American Iron and Steel Institute, “AISI Public Policy Priorities – Promoting a Pro-Manufacturing Agenda,” pg online @ [[http://www.steel.org/en/Public%20Policy/~/media/Files/AISI/Public%20Policy/Agenda/AISI2012PublicPolicyAgenda%20_%20Final%20020212.ashx]] //)//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Transportation and Water Infrastructure Background. **__A globally …..__** gas mileage;</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Solves deterrence and all war** </span>//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon et al 2k12</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Mackenzie Eaglen, American Enterprise Institute Rebecca Grant, IRIS Research Robert P. Haffa, Haffa Defense Consulting Michael O'Hanlon, The Brookings Institution Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution Martin Sullivan, Commonwealth Consulting Barry Watts, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy January 2012,” pg online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/26%20defense%20industrial%20base/0126_defense_industrial_base_ohanlon]] </span>//)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The current wave of defense ….. __in a globalized marketplace__.</span>

====Everglades==== 
**__Ground-based georeferencing__ is key to Everglades sustainability and __effective__ restoration**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones ‘11</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[John. Analyst at the US Geological Survey. “Remote Sensing of Vegetation Pattern and Condition to Monitor Changes in Everglades Biochemistry” </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Critical Review in Environmental Science and Technology</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">. 2011. SpringerLink]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Decades of Everglades science have …..</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of models that forecast system behavior in the face of natural and anthropogenic</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> change</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Everglades collapse causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Towery & Regalado 9 </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Chris & Nanciann, Army Corps of Engineers; “Getting the Water Right” The Military Engineer vol. 101 no. 660; July-August, 2009; </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://themilitaryengineer.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=62]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> **Gendered language edited)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When Florida became a …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and efforts to achieve a sustainable future.</span>
====Air Pollution==== 
**Solves**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yang et. al. 2 </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Chaowei, et al. Prof of GI-Science at George Mason. “Utilizing Remote Sensed Data in a Quick Response System” </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">ISPRS Special Session</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, 2002. [[http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXIV/pa-rt1/paper/00107.pdf]] //JVoss]//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Hyperspectral imaging ….</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> a powerful measurement technology.</span>

//**Impact**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Driesen 03</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [David, Associate Professor, Syracuse University College of Law. J.D. Yale Law School, 1989, Fall/Spring, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, p. 26-30] </span>//

Air pollution can make …. productive life.//

===Counterplans=== 
====Privatization==== 
**Resolved means to express by formal vote**
**Webster’s** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Revised Unabridged Dictionary,</span> **1998**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (dictionary.com)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resolved</span>**:**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5. </span>__To express, as an opinion or determination, by resolution and vote; to declare or decide by a formal vote; -- followed by a clause__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; as, the house resolved (or, it was resolved by the house) that no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).</span>

**Should doesn’t mean mandatory**
**Words and Phrases,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 20</span>**02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Words and Phrases: Permanent Edition” Vol. 39 Set to Signed. Pub. By Thomson West. P. 370)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cal.App. 5 Dist. 1976. Term “</span>__should__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” as used in statutory provision that motion to suppress search warrant should first be heard by magistrate who issued warrant, </span>__is used in regular, persuasive sense, as recommendation, and____is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thus </span>__not mandatory but permissive__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. West’s Ann.Pen Code, § 1538.5(b).---Cuevas v. Superior Court, 130 Cal. Rptr. 238, 58 Cal.App.3d 406 ----Searches 191.</span>

( ) Fails and perm do both
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bhatta ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Basubed. PhD of Engineering – Concentration Remote Sensing at Jadavpur University. “Classification of Remote Sensing” October 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bbhatta.info/bb_blog/index.php?m=12&y=11&d=24&entry=entry111224-075930]]</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, data from satellite ……</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">inaccessible areas.</span>//

//**Still doesn’t work**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NRC ‘7</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[National Research Council, Working arm of the National Academies of the United States, Committee on Planning for Catastrophe: A Blueprint for Improving Geospatial Data, Tools, and Infrastructure, 2007, “Successful Response Starts with a Map:Improving Geospatial Support for Disaster Management”, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11793&page=R1</span>//]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In this era of ……to the central importance of geospatial information. </span>

Interagency data coordination is a disaster
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NRC ‘7</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[National Research Council, Working arm of the National Academies of the United States, Committee on Planning for Catastrophe: A Blueprint for Improving Geospatial Data, Tools, and Infrastructure, 2007, “Successful Response Starts with a Map:Improving Geospatial Support for Disaster Management”, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11793&page=R1</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In this era of ……. All testified to the central importance of geospatial information.</span>


===Kritiks=== 
===Disads=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Obama good</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Plan passed after the election</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Obama win is locked in—too many routes to victory</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Robert <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shrum</span>, Daily Beast, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">10/26</span>/12, Robert Shrum: Why Obama Will Win, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/10/26/robert-shrum-why-obama-will-win.html|www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/10/26/robert-shrum-why-obama-will-win.html]]</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s strategists knew the </span>Romney spin …….<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> presidency is ending.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Disaster response is key to the election – stays in the mind and influcences votes</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">**Attlee 10-31** – Collumnist for CNN Politics ( Florence Davey Can elections be blown off course by natural disasters?<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.cnn.com/2012/10/31/politics/natural-disaster-election-impact/index.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Democracy </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13.333333969116211px;"> disaster</span><span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">**That’s what the plan is**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adams et al ‘8</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Bev. Managing Director of ImageCat Ltd (UK), a world-renowned engineering firm. And Ronald Eguchi, Charles Huyck, and Shubharoop Ghosh. “The Application of Remote Sensing Technologies for Disaster Management” </span>__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">World Conference on Earthquake Engineering</span>__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, October 2008 </span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.14wcee.org/Proceedings/files/K004.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">//GBS-JV]//</span></span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">In many instances</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> our opinion</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - in the disaster</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> management</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">area.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">It’s a ground sensor – other issues like Libya and Sandy thump</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Plans also not perceived</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Bob <span style="font-size: 13pt;">King</span>, Politico, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">10/26</span>/12, Election in Sandy's shadow, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=938E15A3-DAB9-4528-8471-303B15DEC7CC|dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=938E15A3-DAB9-4528-8471-303B15DEC7CC]]</span></span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">4) <span style="background-color: aqua;">The distraction</span>: </span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">AND</span>//
<span style="background-color: aqua;">behind, like Ohio</span>//.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Late developments can’t impact it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Ari <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Melber</span>, Reuters, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">10/26</span>/12, Why Election Day no longer matters, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/2012/10/26/why-election-day-no-longer-matters/|blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/2012/10/26/why-election-day-no-longer-matters/]]</span></span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">There is </span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">according to one study.)</span>


====Immigration==== 
**Debt Ceiling first**
**Feehery 1-2** (John President of Communications and Director of Government Affairs for Quinn Gillespie and Associates, 1/2/13, “The Clock,” [[http://www.thefeeherytheory.com/2013/01/02/the-clock/]]
The small tax agreement passed by the House last night makes it harder for Obama to do other things with his time in the White House. ¶ That is the inevitable truth that seems lost on conservatives who opposed a deal to make permanent 98% of the Bush tax cuts. ¶ Mitch McConnell is a master at clock management, and as minority leader, his job is to make it as hard as possible for the President to enact his left-wing agenda. ¶ As I wrote yesterday, McConnell was the master strategist who decided that the Congress would deal first with taxes and then with spending. ¶ Conservative leaders (well, the ones most desperate to raise money attacking Republicans) are professionally apoplectic. They can’t believe that Republicans didn’t get any spending cuts included in this deal, after they torpedoed John Boehner’s plan which included massive spending cuts and popular tax provisions. ¶ But Plan C wasn’t designed to include spending cuts, you blithering idiots. That comes later, in the fight over the debt limit. ¶ The President has already declared that the debt limit is off the table, but of course, we all know that he is posturing. Nothing is off the table, and the fact of the matter is that Republicans need to come up with substantial spending cuts if they are to gain the respect of their political base. ¶ After the fight on the debt limit will come a fight on sequester. After the fight on the sequester will come a fight on the 2013 Appropriations bills. ¶ All of these fights will take the time and attention of the President himself. All of these fights will take political capital and energy and promises. By focusing on the budget issues, Republicans make it harder for the President to focus on other things, like immigration and gun control, and whatever crazy left-wing agenda items he might want to add to the list. ¶ Imagine if last night, the grand bargain came together, and Republicans and Democrats cleared up everything in one vote. The President wouldn’t have high-fived the Speaker and said, “my job is done here.” ¶ He would have moved on to gun control. He can’t do that now. Now he has to talk exclusively about the debt limit. He has to burn up political capital on an issue that dove-tails quite nicely with out-of-control spending. ¶ The clock is running out on the Obama White House, and the more time we talk about fiscal issues, the less time he has to get his left-wing agenda through the Congress.

**Plan doesn’t matter – Obama will just XO, he’s going behind Congress**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bennett 1/2</span> [Brian Bennett, Washington Bureau “New rule makes residency easier for immigrants with U.S. kin” 1/2/13 http://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/nation/la-na-immigration-families-20130103,0,1743073.story]crk
Illegal immigrants who are immediate relatives of American citizens will have an easier path to permanent residency under a new Obama administration rule that could affect as many as 1 million of the estimated 11 million people unlawfully in the United States. The rule issued Wednesday by the Department of Homeland Security aims to reduce the time illegal immigrants are separated from their U.S. families while seeking legal status, officials said. Beginning March 4, illegal immigrants who can demonstrate that time apart from an American spouse, child or parent would create "extreme hardship" can apply for a visa without leaving the United States. Once approved, applicants would be required to leave briefly in order to return to their native country and pick up their visa. Sources said that the administration might expand the changes to include relatives of lawful permanent residents. The change, first proposed in April, is the latest move by the administration to use executive powers to revise immigration procedures without Congress passing a law. In August, the Obama administration began a program to halt the deportation of young people brought to the U.S. unlawfully as children. "This is a continuation of usurping Congress' control over immigration," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank in Washington that supports tighter controls on immigration. "This waiver rule is a small piece of this broader effort to go around Congress." The new procedures could reduce a family's time apart to one week in some cases, officials said. In recent years, a few relatives of U.S. citizens have been killed in violence in foreign countries while waiting for their applications to be resolved, a process that could take a year or longer.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bipartisanship won’t happen – I only need to take out one internal link to disprove the da </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">West 1/3</span> [Sean West is head of the United States practice at Eurasia Group, a global political risk advisory firm, writing for Bloomberg “Debt Ceiling Fight Could Be Train Wreck” 1/3/13 http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/debt-ceiling-fight-could-be-train-wreck.html]crk
As I suggested likely in these pages, Congress and President Barack Obama managed to find a way to avert the dreaded fiscal cliff with a good enough deal to raise some new tax revenue but avoid a massive tax rate increase as well as automatic spending cuts. What they didn’t do was create a new form of bipartisan political interaction that gives reason to be optimistic about how they will address the debt limit and government spending decisions that loom in just a few weeks. While lawmakers can be proud that they exceeded the expectations of many by not allowing a massive growth shock, the real story of the fiscal cliff is one of opportunity cost. President Obama and Speaker John Boehner had a chance to set in motion a new form of bipartisan cooperation. Even if they failed to agree to the larger framework deal that keeps escaping them, it would have been a far better sign for the future if the cliff deal had been brokered directly by the two people in Washington with real power. Instead, it was left to their respective surrogate and colleague -- Vice President Joe Biden and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell -- to broker a last-minute deal.


**Won’t pass – GOP doesn’t want Obama’s plan – assumes the optimism of their evidence**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stanage and Easley 12/17</span>[Niall, Jonathan, staffwriters for the hill

"Republican leaders balance politics and principle on immigration reform"1217 [[http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/273137-republican-leaders-balance-politics-and-principle-on-immigration-reform)|http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/273137-republican-leaders-balance-politics-and-principle-on-immigration-reform]]]
Senior Republicans say the party is struggling to thread the needle on immigration reform, an issue emerging as the next big item on the political agenda once the ongoing deficit talks reach their conclusion. On the one hand, GOP leaders recognize the party needs a new approach. Mitt Romney performed dismally with Latino voters in November’s general election. On the other hand, internal skeptics fear that a GOP rush to embrace a more liberal approach to immigration would risk sundering the conservative movement without paying any electoral dividends. These dilemmas are not entirely new. President George W. Bush and Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) pushed immigration reform in the middle of the last decade. They had no success, were subjected to considerable criticism from other conservatives and the issue almost capsized the latter’s run for the 2008 presidential nomination. The difference this time might be that the party is coming off a sizable election loss in which its unpopularity among Hispanics was a key factor. Romney received the support of only 27 percent of Latino voters, according to exit polls — a stark contrast to the 44 percent Bush racked up in 2004. But some influential voices in the party worry that a more centrist line on immigration reform is being pushed too hastily. They also face a tactical decision — whether to support broad reforms or back a more piecemeal approach to the issue. Rep. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), who will replace Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz) in the next Congress, said that while “there is a recognition” that the immigration issue had hurt the GOP with Hispanics, he believed “some might overplay it.” He added that there was a danger in “thinking [that] if we do immigration reform, we all of a sudden get 44 percent, like Bush. That’s not the case.” Even so, however, Flake acknowledged that the party’s current position was simply doing it too much damage, especially when the dangers were exacerbated by an inflammatory tone. “Our policy on immigration, or the voices that come from our party, certainly have alienated some in the Hispanic community, but it also alienates others,” he said. “It’s not just that it’s turned off Hispanics -— and it has — but more broadly it’s turned off a lot of people.” Rep. James Lankford (R-Okla.), the chairman of the House Policy Committee, argued that “a vast number of Republicans are supportive of immigration reform.” He also asserted, as do many conservatives, that a significant proportion of the Latino population is simpatico with the GOP’s worldview on economic and social issues. Lankford emphasized that as Republicans ponder whether to modulate their position on immigration reform, “the first consideration can’t be the political benefit.” Yet he fears Republicans who supported any kind of sweeping reform would come under attack from their right flank while most of the benefit could accrue to President Obama. “Whoever is president, they sign it and they get credit for it,” he said. “Some say that if Republicans push immigration reform here, we’ll get credit for it. That’s not true. The president will get credit for it.” The answer, many Republicans and strategists believe, could lie in part with a shift toward supporting something akin to an expansive DREAM Act, without going so far as any deal involving a broader amnesty. Republican strategist Hogan Gidley, who worked closely with former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee (R) and served as the communications director for former Sen. Rick Santorum’s 2012 presidential bid, told The Hill that Republicans need to convince Latinos they are receptive to the challenges the community faces. “It doesn’t mean we open our borders. It doesn’t mean that we grant amnesty. But Huckabee used to make that point that the children were here through no fault of their own. Why deny them a college education?” Gidley cautioned that a broader reform package could be a big political loser for Republicans. He cited the amnesty to which President Ronald Reagan agreed in the 1980s, and added “he still never got their votes.” The lesson to be drawn, he added, was that “we shouldn’t run to change our principles or sell out our convictions for votes, because there is no guarantee that you will get the votes. Then you’re left without your principles and without political support.” Some Republicans believe that progress could be made simply by adopting a less hostile tone when addressing issues like immigration. Such an approach, according to pollster Whit Ayres, could help win over those Hispanics who, ethnicity aside, fit the demographic profile of Republican supporters neatly. “A great deal of what needs to change is adopting an attitude that says, ‘We want Hispanics who believe in limited government and lower taxes and entrepreneurial opportunity as part of our coalition,’ ” he said. Ayres’ company, North Star Opinion Research, last week released a poll from four battleground states — Florida, Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico — that underlined this point. In each of those four states, the poll found many Hispanics who considered themselves conservative did not vote for Romney in November. In the three states other than Florida, the margin was striking. In Nevada, 40 percent of Hispanics declared themselves conservative but only 25 percent said they voted for Romney. In New Mexico, the figures were 47 percent and 29 percent, respectively. “If we simply got the portion of Hispanic voters who consider themselves conservative, we would be back in the hunt,” Ayres said. For Republicans, the current crisis has been a long time coming. Strategist Ed Rollins told The Hill he remembered having a conversation in 1982 with legendary consultant Lee Atwater about how to boost the GOP’s standing with blacks and Latino. Rollins added that the damage that has been done in the interim could not be undone overnight. He counseled the party to think in terms of five-year or 10-year plans that involved selecting more Hispanic candidates among other things. But a more generous approach to immigration reform, he insisted, had to be part of the picture. “It might be a piecemeal thing where you begin with the DREAM Act and move beyond it,” he said. “Republicans, realistically, can’t be obstructionist.
**We’re nowhere close to debates**
**HP 1/2** [Huffington Post, Elise Foley and Sam Stein “Obama's Immigration Reform Push To Begin This Month” 1/2/13 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/02/obama-immigration-reform_n_2398507.html]crk
It remains unclear what type of immigration policies the White House plans to push in January
, but turning them into law could be a long process. Aides expect it will take about two months to write a bipartisan bill, then another few months before it goes up for a vote, possibly in June. A bipartisan group of senators are already working on a deal, although they are still in the early stages. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) will likely lead on the Democratic side in the House. While many Republicans have expressed interest in piecemeal reform, it's still unclear which of them plan to join the push.

**Winners win**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marshall and Prins ‘11</span>
(BRYAN W, Miami University and BRANDON C, University of Tennessee & Howard H. Baker, Jr. Center for Public Policy, “Power or Posturing? Policy Availability and Congressional Influence on U.S. Presidential Decisions to Use Force”, Sept, Presidential Studies Quarterly 41, no. 3)

Presidents rely heavily on Congress in converting their political capital into real policy success. Policy success not only shapes the reelection prospects of presidents, but it also builds the president’s reputation for political effectiveness and fuels the prospect for subsequent gains in political capital (Light 1982). Moreover, the president’s legislative success in foreign policy is correlated with success on the domestic front. On this point, some have largely disavowed the two-presidencies distinction while others have even argued that foreign policy has become a mere extension of domestic policy (Fleisher et al. 2000; Oldfield and Wildavsky 1989) Presidents implicitly understand that there exists a linkage between their actions in one policy area and their ability to affect another. The use of force is no exception; in promoting and protecting U.S. interests abroad, presidential decisions are made with an eye toward managing political capital at home (Fordham 2002).




==Russia Sci- Fi== 
===Kritiks=== 
====Nietzsche==== 

**They can’t tell us what makes our lives valuable – that’s subjective – we think our lives are made better via politics**
**May 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Todd May, prof @ Clemson. “To change the world, to celebrate life,” Philosophy & Social Criticism 2005 Vol 31 nos 5–6 pp. 517–531)</span>
__To change the world and to celebrate life. This__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ……..</span> __The only question is whether you will take up the world that you are of, or leave it to others, to those others who would be more than willing to take your world up for you.__


**The alt results in fascism**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rejali 2003</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associate Professor of Political Science at Reed College [Darius, “Friend and Enemy, East or West: Political Realism in the work of Usama bin Ladin, Carl Schmitt, Niccolo Machiavelli and Kai-Ka’us ibn Iskandar” January 2003, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://academic.reed.edu/poli_sci/faculty/rejali/articles/friend_enemy.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, DKP]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is tempting to put Schmitt’s answer like this: we know ……..: they can be explained but not second-guessed.</span>


**Violence is not inevitable – saying it is creates a self-fulfilling prophecy that culminates in extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kohn 1988</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alfie, writes and speaks widely on human behavior, education, and parenting, and has been published in many national publications including Psychology Today and The New York Times. He earned a B.A. from Brown University in 1979[2], having created his own interdisciplinary course of study. He received an M.A. in 1980 from the University of Chicago in the social sciences. “Human Nature Isn’t Inherently Violent,” http://salsa.net/peace/conv/8weekconv1-4.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peace activists can tell when it's coming. Tipped off by a helpless shrug………..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The same species [that] invented war is capable of inventing peace.</span>



**Friend/enemy relationships are instable**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Derrida 97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Jacques Derrida, Visiting Professor at NYU, The Politics of Friendship, 1997, p. 83-89//MC//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">— We have lost the friend, as it is said in this century. — ………… purity, it is not Europeanized and shares nothing of the tradition of the juridical and the political called European.)</span></span>
//**Dreaming is creativity – attempts to restrict it devalue existence – turns the alt**//
//**McManus 2007** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Susan McManus, Lecturer in Political Theory @ Queen’s University, “Theorizing Utopian Agency: Two Steps Toward Utopian Techniques of the Self” Theory and Events, Volume 10 Issue 3, 2007, Online @ Project MUSE)</span>//
//__Nietzsche rejects the disciplinary …... We can and must learn how to dream better: differently, reflexively, collectively.__//
//**Pain undermines the autonomy of the subject and turns their impacts**//
//**Edelglass 6** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">William Edelglass is Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Marlboro College, “LEVINAS ON SUFFERING AND COMPASSION” Sophia, Vol. 45, No. 2, October 2006</span>//
//__Because suffering is a pure passivity__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">……..</span>__evil is understood through suffering: 'All evil relates back__//

//**They link to themselves – can’t make judgments of other’s value to life – also life is a prerequisite to beauty and happiness**//
//**White 1990 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Williams College(Alan, Within Nietzsche's Labyrinth, http://www.williams.edu/philosophy/faculty/awhite/WNL%20web/beauty_and_goodness.htm,) </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nietzsche exhorts us to live beautifully............</span>__f there be such, of its past.__//


//**We can always find happiness**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lambrou 7/22</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-PhD, past chairman of psychology at Scripps Memorial Hospital, author of 5 books, member of professional organizations including the Association for Psychological Science, past-president of the American Psychotherapy and Medical Hypnosis Association , the San Diego Psychological Association (Peter, “Opening Your Happiness Value”, Psychology Today, http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/codes-joy/201207/opening-your-happiness-valve)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">shortcuts</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> some people try </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">……</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Identify the belief; clear the interference; Repattern the beliefs; and lastly; Anchor the new belief for lasting effect.</span>//

//**Their vision justifies genocide**//
//**Fasching 1993** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Darrell, professor of religious studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia </span>//
//__Scarcely more than half a century …….. inexorably followed by genocide.__//



//**Science fiction isn’t escapism – it provides unique insights into our material world**//
//**Pohl 1997**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Fredrick, famous science fiction author, edited by Donald Hassler is a professor of English at Kent State University, Clyde Wilcox is a professor in the Government Department at Georgetown University, </span>//Political Science Fiction//, “The Politics of Prophecy” Google Books) BW
__If we suppose__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—as I think most of us do—</span>__………..__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">what Harlow Shapley once, in a considerably different context, called ‘The View from a Distant Star.”</span>

==Tunnel to Russia== 
===Kritiks=== 
====2AC Security==== 
**Framework – the debate should be about whether the plan is better than the squo or an alternative – the actual policy is more important than the discourse supporting it proven by them reading a security based da – perf con is a voting issue kills clash and forces us to read offense against ourself**
**Tuathail, 96** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Gearoid, Department of Geography at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)</span>
__While theoretical …………__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">to the patterned mess that is human history.</span>

**Perm do the plan and all parts of the alternative that aren’t vote negative – the alternative fails because explanations of security rely on insecurity and termination of all threats is not possible but if it were it would end the state.**
**ALVAREZ 6** - studied International Relations at the Universidad Externado in Bogotá. She holds a master's degree in peace studies at the University of Innsbruck and a doctorate in Peace, Conflict and Democracy at the University Jaume I (Spain). Echavarría has as UNDP and World Bank consultant working in the field of development projects and further. As a researcher for the latest security policies and gender issues in the EU Since 2007, she is a faculty member of the OCT in Peace Studies at the University of Innsbruck. Currently, she is a secretary general of the 54th International Congress of Americanists, (JOSEFINA ECHAVARRÍA ALVAREZ Re-thinking (in)security discourses¶ from a critical perspective 2006 http://echavarria.wissweb.at/fileadmin/echavarria/Rethinking_insecurity_Asteriskos_01.pdf)bs

And this line of thinking ……. imply the termination of the state.
**We do not construct russia as a threat, building the bridge solves the impact and scenario planning is inevitable – its just a question of effectiveness**
**ENGERMAN 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Engerman is Assistant Professor of History at Brandeis University, Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development, p. 2-4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These questions redounded around ……. Particularist views of Russia, which emphasized the nations unique traditions and character traits, dominated American writings until the 1920s.</span>

===Disads=== 
====Elections==== 
**Plan solves ! – carded dependent upon scenario**
**Romney will win now**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Castellanos</span>**</span>, CNN Contributor 2012, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10-16</span>**</span> [Alex, Tue October 16, 2012, Can Obama stop a Romney Victory, CNN, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/10/16/opinion/castellanos-debate-momentum/index.html]]]
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This campaign......Barack Obama won't fail us again</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">?</span></span>

**Winners win – the plan key to consolidate Obama’s momentum**

**Creamer 12** (Robert, political organizer and strategist, "Why GOP Collapse on the Payroll Tax Could be a Turning Point Moment", 1/2,[[@http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-creamer/why-gop-collapse-on-the-p_b_1167491|www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-creamer/why-gop-collapse-on-the-p_b_1167491]].html-http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-creamer/why-gop-collapse-on-the-p_b_1167491.html)
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">2). Strength and victory ……</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ever more likely that they will be wrong.</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">4).</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">When you have them on the run, that's the time to chase them</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The result is locked in – debate proves**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Downie 10/4</span>**</span>
[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-partisan/post/obama-lost-the-first-debate-but-he-will-still-win-the-election/2012/10/04/9c3b7eb8-0deb-11e2-bd1a-b868e65d57eb_blog.html]]
James Downie is a reporter-researcher at The New Republic. Previously, he worked at Foreign Policy, TIME, and Campus Progress. Born and raised in Washington, D.C., he graduated from Columbia University, where he edited its undergraduate news blog, The Bwog.

Furthermore, ……..to alter the contest’s trajectory. Sadly for Romney, //the path the race is stuck// on ends with his defeat.

**Undecided voters aren’t paying attention**
Harry <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Enten</span>, Guardian election expert, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">10/4</span>/12, If Mitt Romney won the debate, will he win the election?, www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/oct/04/mitt-romney-won-debate-win-election

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We cannot expect</span> that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this</span> or <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">any …….until election day</span>.

**No impact to reduced turnout**
Nate <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohn</span>, New Republic Election Expert, Part-Time Georgetown Coach -- his articles go through a TNR editing process and are available for all on his blog, he has been profiled on New York Magazine and MSNBC, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">10/1</span>/12, Obama’s College Voter Trump Card, [[http://www.tnr.com/blog/electionate/107974/obamas-college-voter-trump-card|www.tnr.com/blog/electionate/107974/obamas-college-voter-trump-card]]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Even if turnout</span> …… since 2008.


**Can’t change the race**
**Silver, 9-8**
Nate Silver, “Sept. 8: Conventions May Put Obama in Front-Runner’s Position,” FiveThirtyEight, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/sept-8-conventions-may-put-obama-in-front-runners-position/
Again, this ……<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> a rough tie, what pitch can he come up with</span> in October or <span style="font-size: 10pt;">November to suddenly put him over the top?</span>

**This argument isn’t a disad**
**Johnson 9/10** <span style="font-size: 13pt;">([[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/contributors/fawn-johnson.php|Fawn Johnson]] Correspondent, National Journal, “[[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/09/no-love-at-political-conventio.php|No Love at Political Conventions]],” 9/10/12, [[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/09/no-love-at-political-conventio.php]]) GANGEEZY</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There were wonky, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">……..Where's the love?</span>

=Negative= 
==Strategies== 
===Greenhill RR=== 

Round 2 - Climate Hardening: **Buddhism Critique (2NR)**, T-Maintenance... I don't remember the rest

Round 4 - Inland Waterways: **High Food Prices Good (2NR)**, States CP, Army Corps Trade-off DA, Inflation DA

Round 5 - Bering Strait: **Buddhism Critique (2NR)**, States CP, Inflation DA, T-Investment

Round 7 - NIB: **Effects Topicality (2NR), High Food Prices Good (2NR)**, Terrorism Advantage CP, Hegemony Bad

===Greenhill=== 

Round 1 - Over-identification: **Inflation DA (2NR), States CP (2NR)**, Irony Critique, Bataille Critique, Framework

Round 3 - Anthropocentrism: Buddhism Critique, **Obama Good Elections DA (2NR)**, Privatization CP, Anthropocentrism Good

Round 6 - Surface Transit: T-Substantial, Competitiveness Critique, **High Food Prices Good (2NR)**, Hegemony Bad

Octafinals - JARC: Rights Malthus, Buddhism Critique, Privatization CP, **Inflation DA (2NR), Ground Level Ozone (2NR)**

===New Trier=== 

Round 2 - HSR: High Food Prices Good, **Buddhism Critique (2NR)**

Round 3 - Relational Planning: **Transhumanism Good (2NR)**

Round 5 - Inland Waterways: T-Transportation Infrastructure, High Food Prices Good, **Buddhism Critique (2NR)**

===**St. Marks**=== 

Round 2 - Disabilities: **"Disability" Word PIC (2NR)**, Framework, Advantage CP, Inflation DA, Case Turns

Round 4 - HTF: **Elections DA (2NR)**, T-Investment, Gas Tax PIC, Transportation Infrastructure PIC, High Food Prices Good

Round 6 - Federal Reserve: High Food Prices Good, Advantage CP, **Buddhism Critique (2NR)**, Inflation DA

===Michigan=== 

Round 2 - Port Security: T-Military, **Cost Sharing CP (2NR)**, Terrorism Critique, Trade DA, **Obama Good E****lections DA (2NR)**

Round 3 - NIB: T-Investment, **Advantage CP (2NR)**, China FDI CP, Obama Good Elections DA, **High Food Prices Good (2NR)**, **Airpower Bad (2NR)**

Round 5 - Disabilities: Framework, Advantage CP, **Virilio Critique (2NR)**, Inflation DA

Triples - Alaska Ports: T-Military, **Buddhism Critique (2NR)**, Alaska CP, Obama Good Elections DA, DOD Trade-off DA

Doubles - CCS: **T-Pipelines (2NR)**, Regulations CP, Advantage CP, Obama Good Elections DA, SO2 Good, Inflation

===NURR=== 

DURRRRRRRR

Round 1 - Bering Strait: **T-Investment (2NR)**, Fiscal Cliff DA, Oil DA, Virilio Critique

Round 5 - Space Elevator: T-Transportation Infrastructure, **Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)**, Inflation DA, Virilio Critique

Round 7 - Port Security: T-Military, Cost Sharing CP, **Advantage CP (2NR... on accident)**, Fiscal Cliff DA, Econ/Trade Turns, **Stimulus Bad (2NR)**, **Russia SOI Good (2NR)**

===**Dowling**=== 

Round 1 - HSR: **Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)**, **Advantage CP (2NR)**, Oil DA, Virilio Critique

Round 4 - Port Security: **T-Military (2NR)**, Cost-Share CP, Advantage CP, Fiscal Cliff DA

Round 6 - Icebreakers: T-In, **Alaska CP (2NR)**, **Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)**, Virilio Critique

Octafinals - NIB: Extra-T, Aliens CP, **Local Food DA (2NR)**, Virilio Critique, Fiscal Cliff DA

Quarterfinals - Port Dredging: T-Water, Privatization CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Local Food DA, **Virilio Critique (2NR)**

===Blake=== 

Round 2 - Climate Adaption: T-Maintenance, **Warming Advantage CP (2NR)**, Buddhism Critique, **Food Prices DA (2NR)**

Round 4 - Icebreakers: T-Vehicles, **Alaska CP (2NR)**, Fiscal Cliff DA, Buddhism Critique, **Coast Guard Trade-off DA (2NR)**

Round 5 - Seabasing: T-Vehicles, T-in, **SCS Advantage CP (2NR)**, Hegemony Bad, **Middle East War Good (2NR)**

Round 7 - Mayport: T-Military, T-Substantial, Fiscal Cliff DA, **Terrorism Critique (2NR)**

Octafinals - Bering Strait: T-Investment, Fiscal Cliff DA, Oil DA, **Virilio Critique (2NR)**

Semifinals - Port Dredging: T-Water, T-Military, Privatization CP, **Fiscal Cliff DA (2NR)**, Virilio Critique, Local Food DA

===MBA=== 

Round 1 - Port Dredging: T-Water, **Privatization CP (2NR)**, Virilio Critique, **Debt Ceiling DA (2NR)**, Local Food DA

Round 3 - Icebreakers: T-Vehicles, Debt Ceiling DA, Buddhism Critique, ATS Bad (Dark Matter Bad, **Whale Murder Good (2NR)**), Russia SOI Good

Round 6 - CCS: T-Pipelines, Regulations CP, **Debt Ceiling DA (2NR)**, Virilio Critique, SO2 Good

===Emory=== 

Round 1 - Port Dredging: T-Water, **Privatization CP (2NR)**, Competitiveness Critique, **Hagel Nomination DA (2NR)**

Round 3 - LNG: T-Transportation Infrastructure, DOE Approval CP, **Virilio Critique (2NR)**, Hagel Nomination DA

Round 6 - Disabilities: Framework, **Virilio Critique (2NR)**, Advantage CP, Hagel Nomination DA, **Cap Turns (2NR)**

Octafinals - Icebreakers: **T-Fixed (2NR)**, T-In, Leasing CP, Hagel Nomination DA, ATS Bad DA

===Harvard RR=== 

Round 2 - Nanotech: Privatization CP, **Immigration DA (2NR)**, Advantage CP, Local Food DA

Round 4 - HTF: T-Investment, Gas Tax PIC, **Immigration DA (2NR)**, Gas Tax Bad [Petrochemical Industry, **Biofuels (2NR)**]

Round 7 - MMT: Framework, Virilio Critique, **Advantage CP (2NR)**, Food Prices DA, Immigration DA, Ableism, Inflation, **Hegemony Bad (2NR)**

==**T**-Fixed== 
===**<span style="font-size: 90%;">1NC Interpretation Evidence</span>**=== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Transportation infrastructure must be fixed**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Orr 2008**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Ryan J., Ph.D. in Engineering and Executive Director – Collaboratory for Research on Global Projects and Gregory Keever, LLM in Taxation – George Washington University and JD – University of Virginia School of Law, “Enabling User-Fee Backed Transportation Finance in California”, Working Paper #41, http://crgp.stanford.edu/publications/working_papers/Orr_Keever_Enabling_User_Fee_Backed_Transportation_Finance_wp0041.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In arriving at these conclusions, </span>this paper examines data from recognized think tanks, the state budget, published articles<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and commentary specific to California, </span>international studies<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on user-fee backed finance, </span><span class="TitleChar">and comments</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and views </span><span class="TitleChar">articulated </span>by<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> state </span>senior<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> government </span>officials<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Here </span>transportation infrastructure is defined as “any fixed physical asset designed for transporting people and goods<span class="TitleChar"> including highways, arterial streets, bridges, tunnels, and mass transportation systems.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1 An often overlooked aspect of transportation infrastructure, even of the most well constructed type, is that it is a consumable asset: it has a finite life, wears out with use, and needs periodic replacement.</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2NC Violation Card</span>**=== 


( ) Ice moves and isn’t stable

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Andrill ‘7</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">[“When ice Meets the Sea” 2007, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.andrill.org/flexhibit/flexhibit/materials/activities/Activity2B-WhenIceMeetsTheSea.pdf]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> //GBS-JV]//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Antarctica, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">glaciers have</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">grown so large that they</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">have merged to cover</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">large areas of land</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These thick masses</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of glacial ice</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on East</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and West Antarctica</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>//arecalled ice sheets//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the northern</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> hemisphere, an ice</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sheet also covers</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Greenland.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Over time, ice flows</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">downhill</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//Parts of an ice sheet<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>flow off the continent and float<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">on ocean water. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Floating </span>ice that is<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>still connected to land is called an<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>ice shelf<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At the leading edge of ice shelves, </span>sections of the ice<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> occasionally </span>break off<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>free<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">-</span>floating chunks of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this </span>glacial ice<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are called icebergs.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Frozen seawater on the ocean surface is called sea ice. Each winter, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the area</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">covered by sea ice around Antarctica expands.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> By summer, much of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it melts</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">away again, leaving open ocean in its place.</span>


==Buddhism Critique== 
===1NC Shell=== 

The affirmative’s approach to the economy is an attempt to ground the self – this only creates a self-fulfilling prophecy
**Loy 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David has a M.A. in Asian philosophy from the University of Hawaii and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the National University of Singapore. He was a professor on the Faculty of International Studies at Bunkyo University in Japan, now Professor of Ethics/Religion and Society at Xavier University. “Healing Ecology” [[http://blogs.dickinson.edu/buddhistethics/files/2010/05/Loy-Healing-Ecology1.pdf]]) BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">So </span><span class="TitleChar">what does Buddhism have … </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">because of competition between group selves.</span>


Cycles of violence and nuclear extinction become inevitable – the ego numbs us to violence against others – interrogation of this must start within
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Daisaku </span>**Ikeda 2007**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Buddhist philosopher and president of Soka Gokkai International, “Restoring the Human Connection: The First Step to Global Peace,” [[http://www.sgi-uk.org/resources/PeaceProposal2007.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Similarly, when I met with …</span><span class="TitleChar"> **progeny as nuclear weapons**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

The alternative is to shed the ego – the self is socially constructed, we recognize the true base of the self, which is an interconnected consciousness with all other beings
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Dale </span>**Snauwaert**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Fall </span>**2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Associate Professor of Educational Theory and Social Foundations of Education; Chair of the Department of Foundations of Education, University of Toledo. “The Ethics and Ontology of Cosmopolitanism: Education for a Shared Humanity,” Current Issues in Comparative Education 12.1, [[http://www.tc.edu/cice/Issues/12.01/PDFs/12_01_Complete_Issue.pdf]].</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What I want to achieve . . . is self-realization . . . I live …</span><span class="TitleChar"> fundamental </span>interconnection<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

Our investigation of mind-world dualism must be evaluated before substantive claims
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Patrick Thaddeus </span>**Jackson 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Associate Professor of International Relations in the School of International Service at the American University in Washington, DC. “The Conduct of Inquiry in International Relations: Philosophy of Science and its Implications for the Study of World Politics,” p 41-2</span>

Ontological commitments<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, whether … </span><span class="TitleChar">knowledge-production procedures.</span>

===<span class="TitleChar">2NC Framework</span>=== 

He also indicates our framework is a prerequisite for debate to occur – we cannot argue about consequences of the plan before agreeing meta-issues – here’s more evidence
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Neta </span>**Crawford**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>**2002**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Professor of Political Science @ Brown. Argument and Change in World Politics, p. 19-21.</span>

__Coherent arguments are unlikely to ...__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Hence framing is a meta-argumen</span>

**Not only is information and critical reasoning based education inevitable, but it won’t provide solutions to global problems – only a focus on consciousness converts info into knowledge**
**Zajonc 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Arthur, Professor of physics at Amherst College, “Contemplative and Transformative Pedagogy,” Kosmos Journal 1.1, http://www.arthurzajonc.org/uploads/Contemplative_Pedagogy%20Kosmos.pdf)</span>

<span class="TitleChar">I approach the question of shaping ... peace is the work of education</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."6</span>

Policy education from debate is unrealistic – therefore unpredictable and useless
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CLAUDE 1988</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Inis, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, University of Virginia, States and the Global System, pages 18-20)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This view of the state as an institutional monolith is ...</span><span class="TitleChar"> that </span>they sometimes claim.


===<span class="TitleChar">2NC Root Cause</span>=== 

**Khema 1994**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Ayya, Buddhist monk, “All of us beset by Birth, Decay, and Death.” http://www.buddhismtoday.com/english/philosophy/thera/003-allofus-5.htm)</span>

__If you have ever read ...__ __will always find another crusade.__

===2NC Environment Links=== 

Any successful solution to the environmental crisis requires a reorientation of our relationship to nature – or error replication becomes inevitable
**Loy 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David has a M.A. in Asian philosophy from the University of Hawaii and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the National University of Singapore. He was a professor on the Faculty of International Studies at Bunkyo University in Japan, now Professor of Ethics/Religion and Society at Xavier University. “Healing Ecology” [[http://blogs.dickinson.edu/buddhistethics/files/2010/05/Loy-Healing-Ecology1.pdf]]) BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">If these parallels are valid—if they are ... our own nest, there is nowhere else to go.</span>

Their discourse of warming restricts problem solving to the technological realm which ignores root causes of overall environmental destruction that make extinction inevitable
**Crist 2007**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Bachelor's degree from Haverford College in sociology, doctoral degree from Boston University, teacher at Virginia Tech in the Department of Science and Technology in Society since 1997 (Eileen, Winter 2007, //Telos//, “Beyond the Climate Crisis: A Critique of Climate Change Discourse,” http://biophilosophy.ca/Teaching/2070papers/crist.pdf,)</span>

__While__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the </span>__dangers of climate change are real__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, I argue ... </span> __ongoing **destruction of life on Earth**.__

===2NC Perm=== 

Combining the aff and the alt leads to war mongering
**Loy 2008**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David has a M.A. in Asian philosophy from the University of Hawaii and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the National University of Singapore. He was a professor on the Faculty of International Studies at Bunkyo University in Japan, now Professor of Ethics/Religion and Society at Xavier University. “Money, Sex, War, Karma; Notes for a Buddhist Revolution”)</span>


<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Buddhist societies have not been ... </span> __wisdom over power.__

Changing material conditions before achieving inner peace fails and results in totalitarianism
**Loy 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David has a M.A. in Asian philosophy from the University of Hawaii and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the National University of Singapore. He was a professor on the Faculty of International Studies at Bunkyo University in Japan, now Professor of Ethics/Religion and Society at Xavier University. “Self Transformation, Social Transformation” [[http://www.tikkun.org/article.php/may2010loy]]) BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Such an understanding of karma does not necessarily ... many others closer to home. </span>

T
==Transhumanism Critique== 

===1NC Shell=== 

THEIR CRITIQUE OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL ENCOURAGES ANTI-TECHNOLOGICAL SKEPTICISM—THIS CRUSHES SUPPORT FOR NEW TECHNOLOGY
HUGHES 2006
(James, Ph.D., Public Policy Studies at Trinity College, “Democratic Transhumanism 2.0,” Last Mod Jan 26, http://www.changesurfer.com/Acad/DemocraticTranshumanism.htm)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So why did these two strains … in napalming babies. </span>__Activists fight the machine__.

THIS ACADEMIC DISCOURSE UNDERMINES PUBLIC FAITH IN SCIENCE AND CRUSHES INNOVATION
RAMAN 2009
(Varadaraja, Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Physics and Mathematics from the University of Calcutta before doing his doctoral work on the foundations of quantum mechanics at the University of Paris Global Spiral, Jan 23, http://www.metanexus.net/Magazine/ArticleDetail/tabid/68/id/10678/Default.aspx)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Next </span>__there are … is perhaps the most dangerous of all__.

NATURE SUCKS AND IT’S CONSTANTLY TRYING TO KILL US—WE SHOULD FORGET HARMONY WITH THE EARTH AND USE TECHNOLOGY TO TRANSCEND HUMANITY TO A BETTER FUTURE
DE MAGALHÃES 2008
(João Pedro, Lecturer in the School of Biological Sciences at the University of Liverpool in England [equivalent to an assistant professor in the US system], “>H: The Sky Is the Limit,” http://jp.senescence.info/thoughts/transhumanism.html)
__Humans are not a finished … and nanotechnology__.

TRANSHUMANIST MODIFICATION BREAKS THE CHAINS OF THE HUMAN CONDITION—IT SOLVES DEHUMANIZATION THROUGH DISEASE, AGING, RAPE, AND VIOLENCE
BOSTROM 2009
(Nick, Oxford University, Faculty of Philosophy, The Global Spiral, Feb 5, http://www.metanexus.net/magazine/tabid/68/id/10687/Default.aspx)
__The prospect of … values and personal aspirations__.

THE IMPACT OUTWEIGHS ALL OTHERS—OUR UNDERSTANDING OF THE WORLD IS SO LIMITED THAT WE CAN’T EVEN KNOW WHAT WE SHOULD WANT TO WANT WITHOUT ALTERING HUMANITY
BOSTROM 2005
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Nick, Oxford University, Faculty of Philosophy, “Transhumanist Values,” Last Mod Sept 17, http://www.nickbostrom.com/ethics/values.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The conjecture that there are greater … </span>__current biological constitution__.

OUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO EMBRACE DEMOCRATIC TRANSHUMANISM—

EVERY INDIVIDUAL WHO ENDORSES OUR PROJECT MAKES HUMAN SURVIVAL MORE LIKELY—TRANSHUMANISM IS THE BEST WAY TO SOLVE ALL PROBLEMS AND VIOLENCE PRESENT AND FUTURE
BOSTROM 2003
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Nick, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University, “Transhumanism FAQ,” October, http://www.transhumanism.org/index.php/WTA/faq21/69/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3.5 </span>__Shouldn’t we concentrate on current … significant difference__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">here.</span>


==Virilio Critique== 

===1NC Shell=== 

The drive to improve transportation infrastructure replaces space with time in an uncontrollable acceleration towards destruction
Virilio 1997 – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, [[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]] 81-83)

But let us get back to … trans-mitted long-distance to be connected.

Acceleration surrenders us to techno-elites, resulting in total wars and extinction
Sykes 2009 – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online)

In Virlio’s view, the war … in slowing down. “We must politicize speed. (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”

The alternative is to brake – instead of an on face rejection of technology, we should use a bottom up method to politicize it – countering the inertia of progress
Glezos 2009 - Ph.D. in political theory and international relations from Johns Hopkins University, now works in the department of political science at University of Regina ([[http://www.lib.umich.edu/articles/search?author=Glezos%2C%20Simon|Simon]], “ The politics of speed: Capitalism, the state and war in an accelerating world” [dissertation] pg. 93-94) BW

The goal then is thus … war and the (Globalitarian) state.

===2NC Link=== 

Masking – the 1AC is an attempt to gloss over the inevitability of the accident with language, treating it as an exception to the rule instead of the rule itself – this continues techno-domination
Pettman 2002 (Dominic, Chair and Associate Professor, Culture and Media at Eugene Lang College, The New School, New York, he has a PhD from the Department of English & Cultural Studies, University of Melbourne, and a BA (honors) from the Department of English & Cultural Studies, University of Melbourne, “After the Orgy: Toward a Politics of Exhaustion” Print) BW

The crash is seen … the hierarchy of man-over-machine.

===2NC Impact=== 

This turns case – it ensures the plan fails – the invention of the train was the invention of the train accident – the more effective the affirmative, the harder it will fall – acceleration only ensures we will overlook the inevitable accident
Pettman 2002 (Dominic, Chair and Associate Professor, Culture and Media at Eugene Lang College, The New School, New York, he has a PhD from the Department of English & Cultural Studies, University of Melbourne, and a BA (honors) from the Department of English & Cultural Studies, University of Melbourne, “After the Orgy: Toward a Politics of Exhaustion” Print) BW
One nineteenth-century physician, Max … any different in virtual reality?


When acceleration of society passes the capacity of the human brain, the rash, shortsighted decision making that results is more conductive to competition than cooperation – this also independently causes clinical depression that makes their impacts redundant
Bifo 2009 – Professor at the University of Bologna, professor of social history of communication at the academia di belle arti of milan (franco, precarious rhapsody, pdf found online)

The mediascape is the … respect to the economic world.

===Affect=== 

Only critique, as an art form, breaks through the numbness provided by modern accelerative technology – the alt is the only route for create real world change and not the rationality proposed by the 1AC
Featherstone 2010 (Mark is Senior Lecturer in Sociology at Keele University, UK, “Virilio's Apocalypticism” [[http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=662]])

For Virilio [37] modernity … of the disorientated and stupefied masses.

===AT: Politics=== 

Speed destroys politics – acceleration of the media creates a “echo chamber” of threat construction that eliminates real democracy
**Virilio 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, “The original accident,” trans. by Julie Rose, Polity, available online)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At this point in time, </span>__as the ...____<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> simulated threats.</span>__

===AT: Bostrum=== 

Either we are living in a simulation now, or posthumanity is unlikely to occur – its only possible forms take out its own benefits
BOSTROM 2002 (Nick, Dept of Philosophy at Oxford, Existential Risks, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])

Most people don’t believe … direct our efforts.

==Terrorism Critique== 

===1NC Shell=== 

The 1AC’s representation of terrorism divides the world into those who seek order and those who seek to destroy it
Shapiro ‘8
[Kam. The Professor of Politics & Government at Illinois State. Carl Schmitt and the Intensification of Politics, 2008, Pg 104-107//GBS-JV]//

//On the side of sovereignty, formal … domestic moral support, however ephemeral, for a wartime administration.//

//The existence of an illegitimate enemy removes any bounds on violence – causes total WMD war and extinction//
//Slomp ‘9//
//[Gabby. Senior Lecture and Professor of International Political Thought at the University of Saint Andrews. Carl Schmitt and the Politics of Hostility, Violence and Terror, 2009 Pg 103-105//GBS-JV]

We may recall that in Concept of the Political … present and future enemies: Tanturn licet in Bello justo!

the Alternative: criticize the 1AC’s representations – only by providing terrorists legitimacy can we solve violence
Mouffe ‘7
[Chantal. Prof of Political Theory at the Center for the Study of Democracy at the University of Westminster. The International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt, 2007, Pg 151-3//GBS-JV]

Since 11 September 2001, … intentions, the universalist discourse is, in fact, contributing.

===2NC Framework=== 

Framing 1st
Neta Crawford, 2002. PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Professor of Political Science @ Brown. Argument and Change in World Politics, p. 19-21.

Coherent arguments are unlikely … persuasive tool that can be decisively wielded by norm entrepreneurs without serious political wrangling.” Hence framing is a meta-argumen

We can’t access policy education without investigation discourse – it gives meaning to all communication and debate – it’s the lens through which everything else is determined
VAN EFFERINK 2010 (Leonhardt, MSc in Financial Economics at Erasmus University Rotterdam and an MA in 'Geopolitics, Territory and Security' at King’s College London, He is now working on a PhD with Royal Holloway’s (University of London), “Polar Partner or Poles Apart?” PSA Graduate Network Conference December 2010, [[http://www.psa.ac.uk/spgrp/51/2010/Ppr/PGC2_Van%20EfferinkLeonhardt_Polar_Partners_or_Poles_Apart_PSA_2010.pdf]])

The term ‘critical geopolitics’ had already … dehistoricises, degeographicalises and depoliticises knowledge.

You don’t have the power to pass the plan, but you can change the discourse we use in debate which has real world impacts
The more specific the education, the less likely it is to be useful in the long term—we should focus on framing questions
ECHEVARR 2005 (Dr. Antulio J. Echevarria II is the Director of Research and Director of National Security Affairs at the Strategic Studies Institute, US ArmyWar College, Parameters, Summer)

Accordingly, history faces … that will be discussed here, history has much to offer. But not in the way traditionally thought.

===2NC Impact=== 

More evidence – their representations block the viability of political demands – this is the only way to stop violence
Benoist ‘7
[Alain de Benoist. Editor of Krisis – a French Academic Journal. The International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt, 2007, Pg 79-83//GBS-JV]//

//From the point of view of those who combat … and boxcutters (see Verstrynge 2005).//

//Alt solves//
//Abrahms ‘8//
//[Max. PhD of Political Science at UCLA, former Research Assc at the Belfer Center for Intl Affairs at Harvard. “What Terrorists Really Want: Terrorist Motives and Counterterrorism Strategy” International Security, Vol 32 No 4. Spring 2008. Ebsco//GBS-JV]

Empirical evidence is … appeal to new members primarily for social, not political, reasons.

==Irony Critique== 

===1NC Shell=== 

WE BEGIN WITH THE STORY OF NOAH FRANKOVITCH, WHO INVENTED IRONY IN THE YEAR 2005
FRANKOVITCH 2005
(“Noah Frankovitch,” “Why Can’t Anyone Tell I’m Wearing this Business Suit Ironically?,” The Onion, Nov 30-Dec 6 2005, www.onion.com)
__Is it my fault none of you stupid … I couldn't go straight if I tried!__

IRONY IS SO COOL THAT IT’S LAME—IT RESULTS IN CONFUSION AND CYNICAL NIHILISM THAT RECREATES DIVISION AND DOMINATION THE AFF SEEKS TO CHALLENGE
QUINLAN AND FRANK 2005
(Adriane and Hannah, Yale Daily News, 11-11-05)
__"The true mark of hipsterdom is … … and they have done everything.__

THE IMPACT IS ROLE CONFUSION—WE BEGIN TO ACTUALLY IDENTIFY WITH THE JOKE AND TAKE IT SERIOUSLY—THIS CEDES POLITICAL POWER TO THE MOST REACTIONARY ELEMENTS
QUINLAN AND FRANK 2005
(Adriane and Hannah, Yale Daily News, 11-11-05)
"__The danger in being a hipster is looking and acting like a … through selective appropriation.__

AND, EVEN IF IRONY IS THEORETICALLY LIBERATING, THE PRACTICAL EFFECT IS TO BREED FASCISM—STUDENTS WILL FOCUS ONLY ON REJECTION AND NIHILISM
LEWIS 1992
(Martin, Professor of Geography at George Washington University and recovered radical environmentalist, __Green Delusions__, pp 247-248)
__A majority__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of those born between 1960 and 1980 seem to </span>__… become inconvenient niceties__.

OUR ALTERNATIVE IS __LITERAL, NON-IRONIC ENGAGEMENT WITH GOVERNMENT POLICY__. THE SERIOUS STUDY OF STATE POLICY IS CRITICAL TO CHALLENGE ELITE DOMINATION—TURNING INWARDS ONLY GUARANTEES THAT NO CHANGE IS EFFECTIVE
WALT 1991
(Stephen, Professor at the University of Chicago, //International Studies Quarterly// 35)
A third reason for decline was the __Vietnam__ … __to be conducted solely by tobacco companies__.

WE CAN COME TO PROVISIONAL CONSENSUS ON MEANING EVEN IF IT’S NOT OBJECTIVELY TRUE—NON-LITERAL MISUNDERSTANDING IS NOT INEVITABLE
FERGUSON AND MANSBACH 2002
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Yale, Prof of IR at Rutgers, Richard, Prof of IR at Iowa State, //International Relations and the “Third Debate,”// ed. Jarvis)</span>

__Although there may be no such … we need (or prefer) to “know__.”

OUR ALTERNATIVE SOLVES WAR—CEDING POWER TO ELITES ONLY GUARANTEES THAT PEACE IS IMPOSSIBLE
WALT 1991
(Stephen, Professor at the University of Chicago, //International Studies Quarterly// 35)
__A recurring theme__ of this … __with the problem of war in the future__.
=="Disability" Word PIC== 
===1NC Shell=== 

Use of the term “disability” is the linchpin of a complex net of social ideals, institutions, and policies that is fundamentally abelist—replacing with “people with differing abilities” is vital to grasp life’s complexity in a way that the ability/disability binary does not
Josephine A. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seguna, ‘10</span> (Emergent Australasian Philosophers, “DASEIN’S STRUGGLE WITH ‘OTHERS’”, http://www.eap.philosophy-australia.com/issue_3/EAP3_SEGUNA_Daseins_Struggle_with_Others.pdf)

<span class="underline">No doubt **using the term ...** **of possibilities for self-determination** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Linton, 1998). </span>
===AT: Perm Do Both=== 

The demand that two conflicting terms be accepted simultaneously creates diametrically opposed injunctions that creates gridlock – the perm shatters any hope for positive change
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Ira </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Chernus</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, Professor of Religious Studies at UC Boulder, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">1991</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, Nuclear Madness: on Religion and Psychology in the Nuclear Age, p. 40-41</span>
<span class="underline">Every description of ... speaks up at all</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==Rights Malthus== 
===1NC Shell=== 

**Overpopulation is forcing us to face the crunch – resource depletion and environmental destruction are looming**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jacoby 08 (Jeff</span>, the Boston Globe, “The Coming Population Burst,” 6-18-08, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2008/06/18/the_coming_population_bust/]
THOMAS MALTHUS has been dead ... better-educated than ever before.

**Restricting individual rights is good – we must accept state control now to prevent ecological collapse and worse tyranny later**
**Ophuls and Boyan 92** (Foreign Service officer and winner of the Gladys M. Kammerer Award for best policy book, Political scientist at University of Maryland, //Ecology and the Politics of Scarcity Revisited// p. 206)

However, __although__ ... __our consent to living with less__.

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The current government is unsustainable – The Aff’s promotion of Negative freedom will inevitably result in ecological destruction and social extinction. Restraints on liberty are the only way to ensure Positive freedom and create a sustainable system.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ophuls</span> **96** (William, former member of the U.S. Foreign Service, prof political science at NU, Part One, “Designing Sustainable Societies,” Ch 2 “Unsustainable Liberty, Sustainable Freedom,” //Building Sustainable Societies,// editor Dennis Pirages, p 33-35)
<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sustainable development is ... </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> on individual liberty may be necessary</span>__</span>__.__

**Modernity is moribund – we must rise from the ashes and resist the affirmatives claims of liberty**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ophuls 97 (William,member of the U.S. Foreign Service and taught political science at Northwestern University, author of Ecology and the Politics of Scarcity, won the International Studies Association’s Sprout Prize and the American Political Science Association’s Kammerer Award, 1997, //Requiem for Modern Politics//)</span>

__The essential lesson__ of this ... __the phoenix rise from the ashes__?


==Antarctic Treaty System Bad== 
===1NC Frontline=== 

The ATS is key to stopping Japanese Antarctic whaling
The Canberra Panel 2009 (The Canberra Panel comprises a group of Antarctic law and policy experts convened by the International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) to provide an independent strategic assessment of the options available to Australia, New Zealand and other likeminded states to effect scrutiny of Japan’s Antarctic whaling operations through the Antarctic Treaty System (ATS). “Japan’s ‘Scientific’ Whaling Program and the Antarctic Treaty System: Independent Panel of Legal and Policy Experts” http://cbialdia.mardecetaceos.net/archivos/download/ReporteCanberrazc1527.pdf) BW

Japan has now conducted ‘… in harsh environments such as the Antarctic Ocean.

Effective whaling is key to solve a forthcoming famine and ecological destruction
KASAMATSU 1995 (From Counting whales in the Antarctic, written Dr. F. Kasamatsu for the booklet, Research on Whales, published by the Institute of Cetacean Research, 1995, “Sighting Survey,” http://www.icrwhale.org/sightingsurvey.htm)

Since 1986, the human population … to a loss of biological diversity.

Nuke war
CRIBB 2010 (Julian, Julian Cribb is a science communicator, journalist and editor of several newspapers and books. His published work includes over 7,000 newspaper articles, 1,000 broadcasts, and three books and has received 32 awards for science, medical, agricultural and business journalism. He was Director, National Awareness, for Australia's science agency, CSIRO, foundation president of the Australian Science Communicators, and originated the CGIAR's Future Harvest strategy. He has worked as a newspaper editor, science editor for "The Australian "and head of public affairs for CSIRO. He runs his own science communication consultancy, “The coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” p. 26)

This is the most likely means by … need to secure them.

They are key to South Pole Station
Colwell et al 2007 (National Research Council, Rita R. Colwell received her Ph.D. in oceanography from the University of Washington. Dr. Colwell was the first woman to be named director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) Anita K. Jones is a professor at the University of Virginia, Dr. Jones served at the U.S. Department of Defense as director of defense research and engineering and was vice chair of the National Science Board. Albert J. Baciocco, Jr., served as director of research, development, and acquisition in the Department of the Navy. He is a member of Tau Beta Pi, a national engineering honor society and the recipient of an Honorary Doctorate in Engineering from Florida Atlantic University. Hajo Eicken is associate professor at the Geophysical Institute and the Department of Geology and Geophysics at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. Jeffrey M. Garrett has been a maritime affairs consultant since retiring from the U.S. Coast Guard in 2005 after 31 years of service. He holds a master of science in management degree from the Naval Postgraduate School and was a research fellow while attending the Industrial College of the Armed Services. Julie Brigham-Grette is a professor in the Department of Geosciences at the University of Massachusetts. Dr. Brigham-Grette has been conducting research in the Arctic for nearly 24 years, including eight field seasons in remote parts of northeast Russia. She was a member of the Arctic Logistics Task Force for the NSF. Jacqueline M. Grebmeier is a research professor of biological oceanography and project director at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Mahlon C. Kennicutt II is the director of sustainable development and team leader for the Sustainable Coastal Margins Program, Office of the Vice President for Research, at Texas A&M University. Dr. Kennicutt is a vice president of the Scientific Committee for Antarctic Research (SCAR) of the International Council for Science (ICSU), an international committee that serves as the formal science advisor to the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties. Douglas R. MacAyeal is a professor in the Department of the Geophysical Sciences at the University of Chicago. More authors’ biographies detailed in the appendix of the report. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”) BW

Essential to these … Station and inland sites) in Antarctica.

South Pole Station should be left to starve, or else they might build a neutrino observatory
Colwell et al 2007 (National Research Council, Rita R. Colwell received her Ph.D. in oceanography from the University of Washington. Dr. Colwell was the first woman to be named director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) Anita K. Jones is a professor at the University of Virginia, Dr. Jones served at the U.S. Department of Defense as director of defense research and engineering and was vice chair of the National Science Board. Albert J. Baciocco, Jr., served as director of research, development, and acquisition in the Department of the Navy. He is a member of Tau Beta Pi, a national engineering honor society and the recipient of an Honorary Doctorate in Engineering from Florida Atlantic University. Hajo Eicken is associate professor at the Geophysical Institute and the Department of Geology and Geophysics at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. Jeffrey M. Garrett has been a maritime affairs consultant since retiring from the U.S. Coast Guard in 2005 after 31 years of service. He holds a master of science in management degree from the Naval Postgraduate School and was a research fellow while attending the Industrial College of the Armed Services. Julie Brigham-Grette is a professor in the Department of Geosciences at the University of Massachusetts. Dr. Brigham-Grette has been conducting research in the Arctic for nearly 24 years, including eight field seasons in remote parts of northeast Russia. She was a member of the Arctic Logistics Task Force for the NSF. Jacqueline M. Grebmeier is a research professor of biological oceanography and project director at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Mahlon C. Kennicutt II is the director of sustainable development and team leader for the Sustainable Coastal Margins Program, Office of the Vice President for Research, at Texas A&M University. Dr. Kennicutt is a vice president of the Scientific Committee for Antarctic Research (SCAR) of the International Council for Science (ICSU), an international committee that serves as the formal science advisor to the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties. Douglas R. MacAyeal is a professor in the Department of the Geophysical Sciences at the University of Chicago. More authors’ biographies detailed in the appendix of the report. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”) BW

Radio astronomy has proven … in detecting Dark Matter.

That causes the extinction of everything ever
Ford 2007 (Matt got his bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from the University of Delaware and graduate school at the University of Massachusetts Amherst where he got his doctorate in chemical engineering. Talking about Professor Krauss, a Canadian-American theoretical physicist who is a professor of physics, Foundation Professor of the School of Earth and Space Exploration, and director of the Origins Project at Arizona State University. “Human observation of dark energy may shorten the life span of the universe” http://arstechnica.com/uncategorized/2007/11/human-observation-of-dark-energy-may-shorten-the-life-span-of-the-universe/) BW

This idea was challenged in the late … ultimate chance of survival.

===2NC Cards=== 

Abundance of food solves world peace through democracy – scarcity risks political instability and terrorism
CRIBB 2010 (Julian, Julian Cribb is a science communicator, journalist and editor of several newspapers and books. His published work includes over 7,000 newspaper articles, 1,000 broadcasts, and three books and has received 32 awards for science, medical, agricultural and business journalism. He was Director, National Awareness, for Australia's science agency, CSIRO, foundation president of the Australian Science Communicators, and originated the CGIAR's Future Harvest strategy. He has worked as a newspaper editor, science editor for "The Australian "and head of public affairs for CSIRO. He runs his own science communication consultancy, “The coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” p. 14-18

If large regions of the world run … and use as one of their motivating causes.

They have also conceded an internal link to ocean plankton – Kasamatsu says whales eat too much of it and seagrass – that causes extinction
Bryant 2003 (Donald, Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology at Penn State, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, “The beauty in small things revealed”, Volume 100, Number 17, August 19, [[http://www.pnas.org/cgi/content/full/100/17/9647]])

Oxygenic photosynthesis accounts for … productivity to be made (refs. 1 and 2; see Fig. 1).
==Middle East War Good== 
===1NC Frontline=== 

Turn—Remittances
A) Conflict in the Middle East undermines them
NDTV 2011 (“Japan crisis, Middle East tension to impact remittance inflow in India,” March 27, [[http://profit.ndtv.com/news/show/japan-crisis-middle-east-tension-to-impact-remittance-inflow-in-india-145913]])

The unrest in the … country may stabilise.

B) They cause bloody secessionism
GRABEL 2008 (Ilene Grabel, Professor, Josef Korbel School of International Studies, University of Denver, “The Political Economy Of Remittances: What Do We Know? What Do We Need To Know?” October, [[http://www.peri.umass.edu/fileadmin/pdf/working_papers/working_papers_151-200/WP184.pdf]])

In other cases, however, the … diaspora communities (unduly) relative to those who remain at home.

C) Nuke war
SHEHADI 1993 (Kamal, Research Associate at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, Ethnic Self Determination And the Break Up of States, p. 81)

This paper has argued that … minorities and borders.


Turn—Chechnya
A) Middle East war stabilizes it and solves terrorism
CETRON 2007 [Marvin, president of Forecasting International Ltd. in Virginia, “Worst-case scenario: the Middle East: current trends indicate that a Middle Eastern war might last for decades. Here is an overview of the most critical potential impacts”, [[http://www.allbusiness.com/government/government-bodies-offices/5523341-1.html]]]

Russia clearly benefits from a … welcome this development.

B) Nuke terrorism against Moscow
DOWLE 2005 (Mark, Teaches at the Graduate School of Journalism at Berkeley, California Monthly, September, [[http://www.alumni.berkeley.edu/Alumni/Cal_Monthly/September_2005/COVER_STORY-_Berkeleys_Big_Bang_Project_.asp]])

One thing was stressed. Moscow … has expressed interest in obtaining a nuclear device.

C) Extinction
DOWLE 2005 (Mark, Teaches at the Graduate School of Journalism at Berkeley, California Monthly, September, [[http://www.alumni.berkeley.edu/Alumni/Cal_Monthly/September_2005/COVER_STORY-_Berkeleys_Big_Bang_Project_.asp]])

In the scenario presented by the … weakened international position.

===2NC Russia Scenario=== 

And, conflict in the Middle East improves Russian influence there
STRATFOR 2-13-2007 ([[http://www.stratfor.com/products/premium/read_article.php?id=284283]])

In his speech at the Munich … with the United States.

That’s key to Russian victory
COHEN 2003 (Ariel, esearch Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies at the Davis Institute of The Heritage Foundation, WebMemo #336, Sept 12, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/MiddleEast/wm336.cfm]])

Most importantly, though, Moscow believes … hostilities in and around Chechnya.

Quick Russian victory is key to reduce nuclear reliance
BLANK 2001 [Steven, MacArthur Professor of Research, Strategic Studies Institute, U.S. Army War College, Demokratizatsiya, Winter)

The fiscal costs of maintaining the … to a wartime contingency.

Impact is nuclear war
LAMBERT AND MILLER 1997 [Stephen and David, USAF Institute for National Security Studies, “Russia’s Crumbling Tactical Nuclear Weapons Complex: An Opportunity for Arms Control” April, [[http://fas.org/irp/threat/ocp12.htm]]]

Nuclear Dependency in the Face of … to ensure its security
==Russia SOI Good== 
===2NC Card=== 

Denying Russia its sphere of influence invites nuclear war
**ELAND 2008** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ivan, Nov, Sr. Fellow, Independent Inst., former Defense Analyst for Congressional Budget Office, The Independent Institute, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2363]</span>

__But **the bear is** now ...__ __possibly even cataclysmic war.__
==Cost-Share CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 

Text: The United States federal government should waive cost-share requirements for existing grants under the Port Security Grant Program.

Money has already been granted, the counterplan removes the barriers for ports to receive the funding
**Kimery 2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anthony, Staff Writer for the Homeland Security Today website, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations” published 3/9/2012, [[http://www.hstoday.us/briefings/grants-funding/single-article/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations/8e5771ad69aa40aed3ae590bf914477d.html]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This week </span>the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Security Industry Association (</span>SIA<span style="font-size: 8pt;">), along with the American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA), </span>sent a letter to<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Napolitano </span>urging her to reconsider grant allocations<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> assigned to the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Fiscal Year 2012 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Port Security Grant Program, </span>or to offer waivers on cost share agreements<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of previously awarded grants.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The letter was sent in response to DHS grant guidance issued on February 17, 2012 in which DHS slashed the Port Security Grant Program by 59 percent.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Even though Congress reduced the budget for preparedness grants by 40 percent, we are concerned with the allocation decisions made by the department,” SIA and AAPA said in their letter to Napolitano. “The recently announced cuts result in a 59 percent reduction in funding for the Port Security Grant Program and are 75 percent less than authorized by Congress in the SAFE Port Act.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Continuing, the two organizations stated that “this allocation will not come close to meeting local needs. It will result in continued struggles to bring port security into the 21st century and hamper meeting government mandates, such as the Transportation Worker Identity Card.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The two groups said that, “while we understand that Congress initiated this cut because of what it saw as a backlog of unspent funds, we believe such a drastic reduction of funds will have negative consequences on port security. In addition, we believe that </span>one of the best ways to utilize existing funding is to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> categorically </span>waive all cost-share requirements<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for grants that have already been awarded. </span>Requiring short<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, individual </span>waivers diverts the efforts of those involved from the goal of getting these projects done quickly<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>Grantees<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> often </span>put projects on hold until they receive a waiver.”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“We are certain there are other options available, and we would encourage your office to think through those options to help us as we help secure our ports,” the groups’ joint letter to Napolitano concluded.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Every agency has to do more with less; we understand that,” said Marcus Dunn, Director of Government Relations at SIA. “However, what is difficult to understand is the allocation made by DHS.”</span>
Many ports have <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">applied for - and have </span>been granted - funding for critical security components<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Unfortunately, those </span>grants have been tied to matching grants,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the two organizations noted in a statement. They added that “given the state of the economy, some </span>ports are unable to meet the matching amount<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, leaving those dollars unclaimed and </span>leaving critical security projects unfinished.”
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">“</span>If the matching amounts were waived, we would really be looking at a budget-neutral situation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">,” Dunn said in a statement. “Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”</span>
==Arctic Advantage Answers== 
===1NC Dowling Quarters=== 

Methods, weather, tracking, equipment, delays, spreading, ice and lack of vehicles are all alt causes to oil spills
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">George 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jane, Nunatsiaq News “Ice will hamper oil spill clean-ups off Nunavut: study” [[http://www.nunatsiaqonline.ca/stories/article/02446_ice_will_hamper_oil_spill_clean-ups_off_nunavut_study]] August 02 2011]//BM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Efforts to keep the Deepwater ...</span><span class="TitleChar"> methods costs and responsibilities of a clean-up operation.</span>

REE

No impact – while China controls 95% of production, they only control 50% of the actual supply, even if there are shortages they won’t escalate
**Stuster 11-26**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-2012 (J. Dana Stuster a Joseph S. Nye National Security Research Intern at Center for a New American Security, “Despite what Black Ops II says, rare earth minerals will not cause a U.S.-China cold war” [[http://blog.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/11/26/despite_what_black_ops_ii_says_rare_earth_minerals_will_not_cause_a_us_china_cold_w]]) BW</span>

Yes, China controls 95 percent ... than the Cuban Missile Crisis<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

Methane

No impact and can’t solve the true cause
**Archer** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">1-4-</span>**2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- (David</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PHD computational ocean chemist at the University of Chicago, “Much ado about methane” Real Climate 4 January 2012 [[http://www.realclimate.org/index.php/archives/2012/01/much-ado-about-methane]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The possibility of a catastrophic ... very much unless they get 10 or 100 times larger, because </span>high-latitude sources are small compared to the tropics.
==Local Food DA== 

===1NC Shell=== 

Local food movement increasing now
PR WEB 2012 (Local Food Movement on the Rise Throughout the Country, July 25, [[http://news.yahoo.com/local-food-movement-rise-throughout-country-070315898.html]])

Los Angeles, CA (PRWEB) July 25, 2012 The local food movement is gaining … community, said Dr. Hooman Shabatian, a Los Angeles based weight loss surgeon.

High shipping costs are key to that—solves emmisions
NEW YORK TIMES 2008 (Shipping Costs Start to Crimp Globalization, August 3, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/03/business/worldbusiness/03global.html?pagewanted=all]])

Soaring transportation costs … a long time for all this to settle down.”

Extinction
Sify 2010 – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, [[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]])

The findings of the … to the way marine ecosystems function,' Bruno warned, according to a GCI release.

==Elections DA== 
===1NC Greenhill Round 3=== 
**Obama will win now – he has momentum especially in the swing states**
**Washington post 9-20** ( 9-20-12 “Is the 2012 election tilting toward Democrats?” http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/wp/2012/09/20/is-the-2012-election-tilting-toward-democrats/)bs

Either we’re at a turning point …… been significant in the states that matter most.



**Obama win key to US-Russia relations – Romney’s agenda is belligerent and controversial.**
**Reichardt 7/9** <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Adam is the Managing Editor of New Eastern Europe, “Considering Russia in the Voting Booth,” New Eastern Europe, 2012, http://www.neweasterneurope.eu/node/382)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s policy towards Russia is easier to gauge, since there has already been four years of his administration to judge. As Ross Wilson noted, “……</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> intentions of American foreign policy.</span>

**US-Russia relations are vital to preventing nuclear war and solving every global issue.**
**Allison & Blackwill, ‘11**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">That central point is that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Russia …….. U.S. success, or failure, in advancing our national interests.</span>

**US/Russian war causes extinction – most probable**
**Bostrom ‘2** <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">[Nick Bostrom, professor of philosophy - Oxford University, March, 2002, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A </span>much greater existential <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>