[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Util AC=== 
====Framework==== 
The resolution as a question of government demands real world policymaking. Utilitarianism is best for policymaking. <span class="cite">Woller</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Moreover, virtually all</span><span class="Maximize" style="line-height: 1.5;"> **...** </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 1.5;">advantage of society.</span>
The overriding motivating factor in human behavior is pain, **Nagel**[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">I shall defend ... </span> **__any further reasons.__**

As long as we're morally uncertain, prevent extinction to preserve future moral deliberation. **Bostrom[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]:**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">These reflections on</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;"> ...</span>**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;"> lot of value.</span>**

Knowledge is said to be “true” when it has practical value, **James**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>**:**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The importance to ... </span> **__in this way.__**
----
[[home#_ftnref1|**[1]**]] (Gary, Economics Professor at BYU, “Policy Currents,” June, http://apsapolicysection.org/vol7_2/72.pdf )
[[home#_ftnref1|****[1]****]]**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Thomas Nagel, //The View From Nowhere//, HUP, 1986: 156-168.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bostrom, Nick. “Existential Risk as the Most Important Task for Humanity.”</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Global Policy</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2012) http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking - William James 1907. Print</span>

====Elections Advantage==== 

Obama wins now due to the favorable jobs report, but it’s still a narrow margin. Silver 10/5/12:

Jobs News Makes Obama’s Case Easier, Nate Silver, Political Analyst for NYT, 10/5/12, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/05/jobs-news-makes-obamas-case-easier/



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Was </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Friday’s jobs ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their presidents historically.</span>



Obama going hard on terrorism alienates Democrats and destroys his union funding. Navarrette 9/4/12:

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ambivalent in Charlotte, Ruben Navarrette, Mercury News, 09/04/2012, http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/ci_21466204/ruben-navarrette-ambivalent-charlotte</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Back ... </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">center right away.</span>



Obama staying hard on Guantanamo breaks his election promise; hurts his voting base. Fox 8/12/12:

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Republicans tally Obama's broken promises as November nears, August 12, 2012, FoxNews.com, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/08/12/republicans-tally-obama-failed-campaign-promises-as-november-nears/#ixzz25eHDMkbn </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the campaign ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> remain open indefinitely.</span>



Romney’s election would start an immediate strike of Iran. Examiner 8/25/12:

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tilford, Robert. //The Examiner.// “Romney promises the American people war if elected.” August 25, 2012. http://www.examiner.com/article/romney-promises-the-american-people-war-if-elected</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">U.S. presidential candidate ... </span> **__the__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">U.S.</span> **__Constitution.__**



And, even if Romney doesn’t strike Iran, a Romney win would give Netanyahu the go-ahead to strike Iran anyway. Alster 9/11/12:

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Romney win could spur longtime pal Netanyahu to face Iran threat, Paul Alster is an Israel-based broadcast journalist, Published September 11, 2012, http://www.foxnews.com/world/2012/09/11/romney-win-could-spur-longtime-pal-netanyahu-to-face-iran-threat/#ixzz28T2F8kQO</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitt </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Romney and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... in Charlotte, N.C.</span>



Iran strikes cause multiple scenarios for nuclear war, CBW use and extinction, Russell -09

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James A. Russell, managing editor of Strategic Insights, the quarterly ejournal published by the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School, Spring 2009, Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East, Security Studies Center)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Iran’s response to ... operations in Lebanon. </span>
====International Law Advantage==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">People hate us because of unfair terrorist treatment.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mora 06</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Alberto J. Former U.S. Navy General Counsel, June 17th, 2008, “Statement of Alberto J. Mora.” Senate Committee on Armed Services Hearing on the Treatment of Detainees in U.S. Custody</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Because the international...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">decreased sharply abroad.</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The precedent needs to be set soon international interactions concerning sovereignty in terms of jurisdiction are on the rise.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Parrish 06</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Austen L. Sovereignty, Not Due Process: Personal Jurisdiction Over Non-Resident Aliens, 06</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Whether a U.S. court should...ofunique problems.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International law solves existential threats.</span>
IEER 02 <span style="font-size: 6pt;">and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, 2002 - Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties, May,</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">The evolution of...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">d out of compliance.</span>

====Sanction Advantage==== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The EU has specifically stated due process would be necessary for us to begin renegotiating our agreements with them in terms of prosecuting terrorists. </span>**Hossain**[[home#_ftn1|****[1]****]]:

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ECJ's reasoning ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> the Consolidated List.</span>



**International asset freezing can stop terrorism – 5 reasons - Gurule 09**

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jimmy Gurule. THE DEMISE OF THE U.N. ECONOMIC SANCTIONS REGIME TO DEPRIVE TERRORISTS OF FUNDING- excerpts from authors book, UNFUNDING TERROR: THE LEGAL RESPONSE TO THE FINANCING OF GLOBAL TERRORISM (2009). Professor of Law, Notre Dame Law School. CASE W. RES. J. INT'L L. [Vol. 41. Pg. 19-63.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The successful implementation ... </span> __**of homicide bombers**."__



Terrorists’ love for destruction creates existential threats. **Lippman ’03:**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Matthew Lippman, Professor, Department of Criminal Justice, University of Illinois-Chicago, “The New Terrorism and International Law,” TULSA JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE AND INTERNATIONAL LAW v. 10, 2003, p. 302-304/</span>

The contemporary era ... limited political objectives. n62


----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Freezing Terrorism Assets: Increasing International Cooperation by Observing Procedural Due Process, Sameer Hossain [J.D. Candidate, 2011, Howard University School of Law. Member, Howard Law Journal], Howard University School of Law Howard Law Journal Winter, 2011, LexisNexis Academic</span>

====War Advantage==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">DP means no targeted killing since they need to be alive for their trial</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Murphy 10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">10 **Due Process and Targeted Killing of Terrorists**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">This Article stays...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">executive may kill.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Drone strikes increasing.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bergen, September 5, Drone is Obama’s weapon of choice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Covert </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">drone strikes...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">eight years in office.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Obama has a more general target, meaning he uses more strikes to get who he wants.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bergen</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">While Bush sought...between [1000 to 2000]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We’re hesitant to put troops on the ground, but putting drones out is easier. Means conflict is more likely.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Singer 09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Singer 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> [Peter Warren Singer is an American Political Scientist and international relations scholar, he is currently a senior fellow at the Brookings institution, where he is the director of the 21st century Defense Initiative; “Robots at War: The New Battlefield’; Winter 2009;</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">James Der Derian is an...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">sense of a commitment</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We can put drones in places where we couldn’t put troops.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ingersoll, September 12, Obama Finally Opens Up About the Administration’s Massive Drone War</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Obama goes on...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">be, like Pakistan.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Shift to drones makes us more involved in the war on terror.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">WSN Editorial Board September 11, Drone warfare warranted in modern era</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The shift towards...to American soldiers.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">War controls the internal link into other impact stories.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Walzer 77 </span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">1977. (Prof. Institute of Advanced Study, Princeton) “Just and Unjust Wars”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">The idea of...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">toward moral extremity</span>__**

===**Habermas AC**=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morality arises from social interaction through shared discourse. Haste</span><span style="font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">:</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Communitarian[s] thinkers start ... than a person.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Any theory must facilitate inclusion into discourse to be able to accurately derive truth, further proven by the structure of morals itself. Habermas</span><span style="font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">: </span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the absence ... in his otherness.</span>

The standard is **respecting discursive inclusion**. Prefer the standard since:

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">First, moral rules by definition bind actors to resolve disagreement and must justify actions to all actors. Habermas</span><span style="font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 2 explains:</span></span></span>
**__Moral rules__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">operate ... promise of rewards.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Second, my view of morality is most consistent with the linguistic structure of ethics as second-personal. Darwall</span><span style="font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> furthers:</span></span></span>

**__To justify oneself ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> individuals’ legitimate claims.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 13pt; text-align: left;">Third, the ability to argue is valuable; you can’t argue against it because that itself is an argument.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hoppe</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">:</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">First, it should ... </span> **__proposal at all.__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">And, any speaker concedes the authority of my standard. Amy Allen:</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“DISCOURSE, POWER, AND SUBJECTIVATION:THE FOUCAULT/HABERMAS DEBATE RECONSIDERED</span><span style="font-size: 3pt;">.” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">AMY ALLEN</span><span style="font-size: 3pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2009. Philosophical Forum</span><span style="font-size: 3pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dartmouth College</span><span style="font-size: 3pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.scribd.com/doc/86981918/Discourse-Power-And-Subjectivation]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Habermas argues that ... </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">and defeats himself.</span>

Contention:
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">First, everybody should have due processes regardless of citizenship. People should have the ability to represent themselves. Allan</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">:</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In a democratic ...</span>**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;"> done with one’.</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Efficacy is superfluous since the individual was represented and was able to participate in the decision. Trevor Allan 2</span><span style="font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">:</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The analogy between ...</span> **__his dignity deserves.__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 13pt; text-align: left;">Due process allows their recipients to engage in the dialogue regarding their treatment. Loper[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]] </span></span>
**If individuals** **can ...** **definition of** **equality.**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Citizenship is irrelevant- all are part of the community. Demenchonok</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">:</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As </span>**__discourse ethics ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the intemational community.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Same constitutional due process is key. **Corbett:**</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Brett Corbett 2010 [“The Use of Military Tribunals: Incompatible with the Notion of ‘Full and Fair’” 2010.</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt;">http://polisci.uoregon.edu/acrobat/HTCorbett.pdf</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A highly valued ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> punishment possible: </span>**__death.__**

Current procedures are biased – even prosecutors agree. **Alexander:**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alexander, Janet Cooper, Military Commissions: A Place Outside the Law's Reach (July 21, 2012). U. Ill. L. J., 2012 Forthcoming; Stanford Public Law Working Paper No. 2115073.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, in choosing ... </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">and procedural unfairness.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">69</span>

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dictionary.com/d/q?=ought</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Helen Haste, [PhD of Psychology at the University of Bath], “Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality”, 1998.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span> <span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jurgen Habermas, The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory, 1998 MIT Press. p. 40</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jurgen Habermas, The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory, 1998 MIT Press p. 4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Darwall, “Contractualism, Root, and Branch: A Review Essay”,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.yale.edu/darwall/contractualism.pdf]] Blackwell: Philosophy & Public Affairs 34:2 p. 204</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">From the Economics of Laissez Faire to The Ethics of Libertarianism, Hans-Hermann Hoppe, in Man, Economy, and Liberty: Essays in Honor of Murray N. Rothbard, The Ludwig von Mises Institute Auburn University</span>

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Allan, T.R.S. //Procedural Fairness and the Duty of Respect//. Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 18, No. 3 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 497-515. Oxford University Press. Accessed JSTOR. <[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/764676]]>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Allan, T.R.S. //Procedural Fairness and the Duty of Respect//. Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 18, No. 3 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 497-515. Oxford University Press. Accessed JSTOR. <[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/764676]]>.</span>
[[home#_ftnref3|__[3]__]] <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Timothy P. Loper, SUBSTANTIVE DUE PROCESS AND DISCOURSE ETHICS: RETHINKING FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS ANALYSIS, 13 Wash. & Lee J. Civ. Rts. & Soc. Just. 41 (2006).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Demenchonok, Edward. (2005) “Discourse ethics and international law,” //Dialogue and Universalism,// 11-12: 57-84.</span>

==Negative== 
===Hobbes NC=== 
<span style="color: #1a1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Human nature can be explained in terms of science, which leads to self-interest.</span>


<span style="color: #1a1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Friend</span><span style="color: #1a1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">, Celeste Friend, Hamilton College, 2004, The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy</span>


<span style="color: #1a1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Hobbes’ political theory</span>

<span style="color: #1a1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">allowed to die).</span>


<span style="color: #1a1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This leads to an irreconcilable problem in ethics; your theory might sound good in the abstract, but real world limitations prevent it from being implemented.</span>

<span style="color: #1a1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Friend 2 explains how we can reconcile our judgments and desires</span>

<span style="color: #1a1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">According to Hobbes...</span>**__<span style="color: #1a1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">State of Nature.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I contend that terrorists have renounced any contractual rights that they might have had, and the contractual agreement of due process is not in the context of international affairs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jordan, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Evening Tribune, 12</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">While each of ... rights as citizens</span>

===Ripstein NC=== 

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Because the very idea of normativity involves choice, //a priori// pure reason is the only correct basis of morality. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">Kant[1]: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">It is a ... accordance with it.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Human freedom, defined here as the right to pursue your own purposes, is necessary. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Rauscher[2]: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Since every human ... of free choice.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Thus, the standard is consistency with a system of equal freedom. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Hart[3]: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">I have two ... the general principle.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">And, independence can only be recognized within a sovereign state. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Ripstein[4]: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Acquired rights can ... to innate right</span>


<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">I contend that equal freedom can’t guarantee an international obligation. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Ripstein[5]: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Kant writes that ... withdraw from it</span>


Terrorists have renounced any contractual rights that they might have had, and the contractual agreement of due process is not in the context of international affairs.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Jordan[6]: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">While each of ... rights as citizens</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">[1] Immanuel Kant, A Critique of Practical Reason, 2nd Edition, 1787</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">[2] Rauscher, Frederick, "Kant's Social and Political Philosophy", The </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2012 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1155cc; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">[[@http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2012/entries/kant-social-political/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">>.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">[3] H.L.A. Hart “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (April 1955), pp. 175-191. Published by Duke University Press.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">[4] Ripstein, Arthur. Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">Philosophy. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2009.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">[5] Ripstein, Arthur. Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">Philosophy. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2009.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">[6] Jordan, Jason. "Do Citizen Terrorists Have Rights?" Do Citizen </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">Terrorists Have Rights? Evening Tribune, 6 Mar. 2012.</span>


===Spinoza NC=== 

I negate.



Pantheism is true. **Nadler** quotes Spinoza**[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]:**



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Proposition 1:</span> **__A ...__** **__or be conceived.__**



Thus, all actions are perfect, and could be no other way. **Nadler[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]:**

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">According to the ... comes into contact.</span>


----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Nadler, Steven, "Baruch Spinoza", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy// (Fall 2012 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), forthcoming URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2012/entries/spinoza/>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Nadler, Steven, "Baruch Spinoza", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy// (Fall 2012 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), forthcoming URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2012/entries/spinoza/>.</span>

===Thomas NC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">State sovereignty, that is the power to exercise authority in the name of national security, must be and has always been the primary governmental obligation</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. **Thomas[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">“It is ‘obvious ...</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> it is committed.” </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Id., at 147. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus the standard is **respecting state sovereignty**. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">State sovereignty requires the ability to protect security without procedural checks</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">Thomas 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">In a case ... omitted; emphasis added).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, **current manifestation of sovereignty permits fighting terrorism without due process. Both Congress and the Supreme Court back the Executive’s branch to do so**, </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thomas 3:</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Although the President ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">of restoring peace.” </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Moyer v. Peabody, 212 U.S. 78, 84 (1909).</span>

----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas, Clarence. [Supreme Court Justice] YASER ESAM HAMDI and ESAM FOUAD HAMDI, as next friend of YASER ESAM HAMDI, PETITIONERS v. DONALD H. RUMSFELD, SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, et al. ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT. June 28, 2004. [[http://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/html/03-6696.ZD1.html]]</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Rawls AC=== 
Only a free action that chooses independent of inclination or empirical circumstance has moral worth, Furrow<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is because </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">... morality requires freedom.</span>

Further, it’s impossible to base knowledge in empirical facts as it kills our ability to know any truths.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';"> C.S. Lewis </span>explains,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.davidbergan.com/Summa/C.S._Lewis|C.S. Lewis]] (May 20, 1946)[[home#endnote_Title|[1]]] contained in </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">God in the Dock</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> edited by Walter Hooper</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">On the fully ... </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; line-height: 1.5;"> has been discredited.</span>__

And, the different phases of an action are unified by the desired end. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Rodl 1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Aristotle defines kinesis... provides an explanation.</span>

And, a noumenal will is required to abide by the veil of ignorance, since it is the best way to remove context from an action. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Rawls:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Rawls, John. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">A Theory of Justice (Revised Edition).</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Harvard University Press, 1999.</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Kant held, I ... expression to one’s nature.</span>

Further, people can respect their freedom of choice independent of circumstance and avoid bias. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Rawls 2:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Rawls, John. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">A Theory of Justice (Revised Edition).</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Harvard University Press, 1999.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This defect is ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the original position.</span>

Thus the standard is abiding by agreements made in the veil of ignorance.

<span style="font-family: Times;">Prefer my standard as it best evaluates equality of all people, **Rawls**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> 3:</span>**
<span style="color: #00000a; font-size: 8pt;">This </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">original position <span style="color: #00000a;">...</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that is fair.</span>

And, the veil is the starting point anyone can agree on, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Rawls 4:</span>
__[We] disagree about ...__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> that he accepts. </span>

Contention:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Behind a veil of ignorance, individuals would want the government to grant universal health care.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;"> Henneberger:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Henneberger, Ian, "Healthcare and Justice: A Moral Obligation?". Philosophy Honors Papers. Paper 1. 2011 http://digitalcommons.conncoll.edu/philhp/1</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Rational and self-concerned ... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">necessitate this provision.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We don’t know how healthy we’d be or the money we’d have to pay for it, so we’d want health care.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;"> Henneberger 2:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Henneberger, Ian, "Healthcare and Justice: A Moral Obligation?". Philosophy Honors Papers. Paper 1. 2011 http://digitalcommons.conncoll.edu/philhp/1</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Both health and ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> cannot be ensured.</span>

Health is one of the basic liberties, we’d be sure to guarantee health care to support it. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Coogan:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Coogan, Elizabeth H., "Rawls and Health Care" (2007). Honors Theses. Paper 501. http://digitalcommons.colby.edu/honorstheses/501</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his own ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> an individual’s income.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Dwight Furrow. “Moral Agency.” Ethics. 2005.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span> Sebastian Rodl. “Two Forms of Practical Knowledge and Their Unity.” Essays on Anscombe’s Intention.
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> Rawls, John. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">A Theory of Justice (Revised Edition).</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Harvard University Press, 1999.</span>

===Util AC=== 
Framework is same as the util framework for sept-oct.

Advantage 1 is Bioterror
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">A bioterrorist attack is coming now and we aren’t prepared.</span>
The Threat of Bioterrorism, Senator Bob Graham, D-FL; Senator Jim Talent, R-MO, Disaster Medicine and Public Health Preparedness, VOL. 5/ SUPPL. 2, July 5, 2011, American Medical Association
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">During its tenure...the biotechnology revolution.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Universal healthcare is key to preventing and treating a bioterrorist attack.</span>
Shane Green, PhD, May 2004, “Bioterrorism and Health Care Reform: No Preparedness Without.” <span style="color: #3b5998;">[[@http://virtualmentor.ama-assn.org/2004/05/pfor2-0405.html]]</span>
The US learned ...reaching peak infectivity

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Otherwise, extinction.</span>
Richard Ochs, president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,”<span style="color: #3b5998;">[[@http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]</span>
Of all the...slippery is this slope?

Advantage 2 is Economy
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The fiscal cliff is imminent—economic collapse begins January 1 without reform.</span>
Pottorff 10/23:
"Fiscal cliff threat to dominate lame-duck session," Rich Pottorff, Doane chief economist & Washington analyst, October 23, 2012,<span style="color: #3b5998;">[[@http://www.agprofessional.com/news/DC-Watch-Fiscal-cliff-to-dominate-lame-duck-session-175271241.html]]</span>
In just a...nutrition program provisions.

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Universal Healthcare is key to sustaining U.S. small businesses, which are key to the economy.</span>
Embry 11 A Universal Health Care Option Is Good for Small Business and US Global Competition By Dennis Embry [Small business owner, columnist] on February 27, 2011,<span style="color: #3b5998;">[[@http://www.nurturingenvironments.org/2011/02/27/a-universal-health-care-option-is-good-for-small-business-and-us-global-competition/]]</span>
The best thing...to their citizens.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Small businesses key.</span>
Sba. Gov 10 INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE ON FEDERAL CONTRACTING OPPORTUNITIES FOR SMALL BUSINESSES
Small businesses are...economy lose out.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Saves money because companies don’t have to ensure work benefits and solves job lock.</span>
Mohit, Behzad, 09 Universal Health Care Can Save Our Economy and Keep 1.7 million Jobs in the U.S.: Part III
Now let's extrapolate...their health care.

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Economic collapse results in global nuclear war and likely, extinction, multiple warrants.</span>
Friedberg and Schenfeld 08:

(Aaron Friedberg-professor of politics and international relations at the Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel Schoenfeld-visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute, 10/21/2008, The Dangers of a Diminished America, The Wall Street Journal, p. HYPERLINK "<span style="color: #3b5998;">[[@http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]</span>"<span style="color: #3b5998;">[[@http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]</span>)
Then there are...and geopolitical power.¶

===Relativism AC=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ethical knowledge is based on individual subjective claims, MacIntyre</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> writes:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">The most influentia</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">by adopting them</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deep divisions in moral debate prove the arbitrariness of first principles, Macintyre2:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">But that shrillness</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">and therefore shrill.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Subjectivity is inherent in expressing moral values, Thomas Nagel</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">In the pursuit</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__include it__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__all.__</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Times;">Even if objective values exist, we only have the capacity to perceive the physical, a limitation which prevent us from reaching transcendent morality.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Times;">Mackie</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> The Subjectivity of Values, [[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=-msmrkE-67IC&oi=fnd&pg=PA95&dq=error+theory+mackie&ots=MEXPIPdDcJ&sig=UPbnEXURDm7DczM0olGcLErmo3A#v=onepage&q=error%20theory%20mackie&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=-msmrkE-67IC&oi=fnd&pg=PA95&dq=error+theory+mackie&ots=MEXPIPdDcJ&sig=UPbnEXURDm7DczM0olGcLErmo3A#v=onepage&q=error%20theory%20mackie&f=false]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Even more important</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">compelled to resort.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And objective consensus about reality can’t exist because physical things cause different perceptions in each of us.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nagel</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, The Limits of Objectivity, 1979</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">For convenience I s</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the world from.__</span>**





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The last barrier towards reaching objective truth is the verification process.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">James:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking - William James 1907. Print</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Take, for instance,</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__all that happens.__</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morality arises relative to agreement, Harman</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">My moral relativism is</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to an agreement</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The community makes these moral agreements, Dr. Haste</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The 'meaning' of__</span>**

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">are not shared</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Communal decision-making increases the probability of the beliefs since it aggregates all knowledge, Christiano</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Epistemologically,__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__democracy is__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">and unreflective subjects.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Times;">Moral language is the product of social consensus. Kwame Appiah</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Times;"> explains, “</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">You can talk</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">talking to ourselves</span>


<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A majority believes the government should guarantee coverage.</span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Sack and Connelly </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">09, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">In Poll, Wide Support for Government-Run Health</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But [polls]clearly... they were opposed.¶</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Same thing for health insurance.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Roberts</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">10 Poll: The Politics of Health Care</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 15pt;">Nine out of...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">care</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 15pt;"> **__costs__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">down.</span>


<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Doctors agree; a public option is necessary.</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Shapiro</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, 09, Poll Finds Most Doctors Support Public Option</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">researchers say...</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">favors health reform.</span>


<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And they mean universal coverage.</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Shapiro</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It's hard to...</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">favors health reform.</span>


<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lastly, the public wants to overhaul the current system. They think its insufficient.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ingram</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Ingram, David. “Poll: Idea of healthcare overhaul gets wide support.” Reuters. March 28, 2012.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">An overhaul of...of 65 percent</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Alasdair MacIntyre, [[http://www.amazon.com/After-Virtue-Study-Moral-Theory/dp/0268035040/|After Virtue]], pg. 20-21</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Nagel, Thomas.[an American philosopher, currently University Professor of Philosophy and Law at New York University, where he has taught since 1980.] //The View from Nowhere//. New York: Oxford UP, 1989. Print.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Gilbert Harman [Philosopher at Princeton University specializing in ethics and the philosophy of mind.], “Moral Relativism Defended,” //The Philosophical Review// 84.1. January 1975.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Helen Haste, PhD, //Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality//, 1998 Helen Haste is Reader in Psychology at the University of Bath, England</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Thomas Christiano. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.Jul 27, 2006. [[http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/democracy/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Appiah, Kwame. //Cosmopolitanism: Ethics in a world of Strangers//. Pg. 28.</span>


===Ripstein AC=== 

The value is morality, which starts and must be based on an innate right to independence.

**Ripstein 1:**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Your sovereignty, which ... there might be.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moreover, all other value is derivative. Hill,</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The second argument ... </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">their own sakes.</span>__**



But, if the right is innate, then it’s shared across all other people, meaning the freedom must be equal, so all have a right to pursue purposes in a way consistent with others’ freedom. **Ripstein 2:**

**__Independence__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is the ... would have set.</span>



Thus the standard is consistency with equal freedom. Equal freedom can only be recognized by a state. <span style="font-family: Times;">Ripstein 3: </span>

**Acquired rights can ...** **to innate right.**



Next, o<span style="color: #1a1a1a; line-height: 1.5;">nly a noumenal will allows freedom, necessary as morality requires choice for it to have value in guiding action. **Kant**</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">[[home#_ftn1|****[1]****]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; line-height: 1.5;">:</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 6pt;">It is a ... accordance with it.</span>



The different phases of an action are unified by the desired end. **Rodl 1**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>:

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Aristotle defines kinesis, ... provides an explanation.</span>



This means judgments have to be logically consistent.<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> **Velleman 2**</span>[[home#_ftn3|****[3]****]]<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">explains: </span>

**__Rational creatures__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">have</span> **__...__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;"> judgment of all. </span>



And, it’s rationally contradictory to violate the freedom of others, justifying equal freedom. Engstrom:
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stephen Engstrom. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. //www.philosophie.uni-hd.de/md/philsem//engstrom_vortrag.pdf//</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Given the preceding ...</span>__<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that same freedom.</span>__



Contention:

First, the dependent have their liberties violated and need a state to address it. Pettit<span style="line-height: 1.5;">:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government.” Clarendon. 1997.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The grievance I ... i</span>nterference over another.



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And, it’s specifically the jurisdiction of the state to create that system. Tobis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: Palatino,Georgia,'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">Tobis, Jacob R., "Theories of Justice to Health Care" (2011). //<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">CMC Senior Theses.</span>//<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> Paper 181. http://scholarship.claremont.edu/cmc_theses/181</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="line-height: 1.5;">reason </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">this ... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="line-height: 1.5;">everyone </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">across time 36 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="line-height: 1.5;">.</span>



And, the state intends well when it creates UHC. Derickson:<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Alan </span><span style="color: #262626; font-size: 6pt;">Health Security for All: Dreams of Universal Health Care in America, 05</span>

The idea__l **of ...**__ the nation’s population.



Further, the existence of state help isn’t predicated on efficacy – the fact that it presents the help is sufficient. Pettit 2:

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But though the ... to that non-domination.</span>


Nevertheless, universal health care solves by reducing the inequalities and their effects. **Gelormino et al[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]:**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The studies that ...</span> **__of income distribution.__**



<span style="color: #231f20;">Universal health care stops free-riding, forcing individuals to pay for their actions. Menzel and Light:</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Paul Menzel and Donald Light. //A Conservative Case for Universal Access to Health Care// [Professor of Philosophy atPacific Lutheran University] Hastings Center Report July-August 2006 pgs 36-45</span>



<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 6pt;">We will argue ... </span>**__<span style="color: #231f20;"> is hardly minor.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> <span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Immanuel Kant, //A Critique of Practical Reason//, 2nd Edition, 1787</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span> Sebastian Rodl. “Two Forms of Practical Knowledge and Their Unity.” //Essays on Anscombe’s// Intention.
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]][3]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> David. Velleman Self To Self. 2006. Cambridge University Press.</span>
<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]] Elena Gelormino , Clare Bambra , Teresa Spadea , Silvia Bellini , Giuseppe Costa, “The Effects of Health Care Reforms on Health Inequalities: A Review and Analysis of the European Evidence Base”, International Journal of Health Services, Volume 41, No. 2.</span>
==Negative== 
===Nozick NC=== 
My criterion is preserving autonomy. Kamm explains[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The</span> __value already__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">rights of</span>__others__.

First, only negative rights, or side constraints, respect person’s entitlements, since positive rights require aggregative sacrifice, disrespecting their individual worth. Nozick[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]] writes:
Side constraints express
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">state or government.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Health care places tax burdens people aren’t entitled to. Pimentel:</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Richard, “Rights and the Health Care Debate: Part IV.” //Philosophy News.// http://www.philosophynews.com/page/Rights-and-the-Health-Care-Debate-Part-IV.aspx]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These contrasts provide</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">rights talk today.</span>


===Hoppe NC=== 

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri;">It's a contradiction to argue that one cannot argue. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hoppe [[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]:</span>**

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Hoppe, Hans-Hermann. The Economics and Ethics of Private Property: Studies in Political Economy and Philosophy. Boston: Kluwer Academic, 1993.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">First, it should ... </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">__proposal at all.__</span>**




**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> each person must have a right to self-ownership. **Hoppe 2:**</span>
Hoppe, Hans-Hermann. The Economics and Ethics of Private Property: Studies in Political Economy and Philosophy. Boston: Kluwer Academic, 1993.


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">Clearly then, the ... </span>**__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Calibri;"> in a contradiction.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Redistribution of goods violates the autonomy of the people who produced them. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Zinser </span>
<span style="color: #ba5600; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.theobjectivestandard.com/contributors/lin-zinser.asp|Lin Zinser]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> and </span><span style="color: #ba5600; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.theobjectivestandard.com/contributors/paul-hsieh.asp|Paul Hsieh]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">, **08, Moral Health Care vs. “Universal Health Care”**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Government-run health ... that enslaves them.</span>

===Overcoming NC=== 
<span style="color: #222222;">Happiness isn't a state of experience but is attained through the process of challenges. **Katsafanas 1:**</span>

Katsafanas, Paul. (2011), “Deriving Ethics from Action: A Nietzschean Version of Constitutivism.” Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, 83: 620–660.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like Schopenhauer, Nietzsche ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and attaining goals.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">30</span>

This need for challenges is empirically proven. **Katsafanas 2:**
Katsafanas, Paul. (2011), “Deriving Ethics from Action: A Nietzschean Version of Constitutivism.” Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, 83: 620–660.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Instead, I want ...</span> **truths already discovered.**
Even denial of resistance in the will to power re-entrenches its authority. **Aydin**:
Nietzsche on Reality as Will to Power: Toward an “Organization–Struggle” Model. <span style="line-height: 1.5;">Aydin, Ciano. The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Issue 33, Spring 2007, pp. 25-48 (Article)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is in ... such an end.</span>

Thus the standard is overcoming resistances.

I contend that health is a challenge that individuals need to face themselves. So-called “sickness” provides the challenges people yearn for. **Nietzsche:**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Friedrich Nietzsche. “Ecce Homo.” Algora: New York, 2004.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Apart from the ... just described myself.</span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Restorative Justice AC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">All ethical knowledge is at some point uncertain. Alstair Macintyre</span>
After Virtue "Since every chain... such a choice."

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">There is no objective morality because every individual chooses to adopt their own set of axioms. Instead, morality arises subjectively relative to agreement, **Harman**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Gilbert Harman [Philosopher at Princeton University specializing in ethics and the philosophy of mind.], “Moral Relativism Defended,” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 6pt;">The Philosophical Review</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> 84.1. January 1975.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"My moral relativism...relation to an agreement."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Communal agreements construct morality, Dr. Haste</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Helen Haste, PhD, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 6pt;">Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">, 1998 Helen Haste is Reader in Psychology at the University of Bath, England</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"The 'meaning' of...which are not shared."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Morality is relative to communities. Those communal agreements are necessarily constructed through public deliberation. Public deliberation allows us to share our axioms and viewpoints </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">HABERMAS.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 6pt;">Truth and Justification. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Jurgen Habermas. Translated by Barbara Fultner. The MIT Press. Massachusetts. 2003</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">"The most significant feature... boundaries of subjectivity"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Public deliberation requires each participant to be given a set of rights in the deliberation, which guarantees that their view will be heard and has a fair chance to be adopted. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">HABERMAS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 15.555556297302246px;">"Participants must be mutually sensitized... best argument always holds sway."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Excluding views and participants from public deliberation effectively excludes them from society. BUTLER</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Judith - Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature @ U.C. Berkeley, 2004 [Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence, p. xix-xxi</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"To decide what views will...become a fugitive and suspect activity."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Subjecting individuals that they have no say, or even nominal say over, allows the government to assert biopower over them, FOUCAULT</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">History of Sexuality v1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"Yet wars were never as bloody... guarantee an individual's continued existence."</span>


Thus the standard must be __Promoting Inclusive Deliberation__.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Advocacy is Restorative Justice</span>
Reserve the right to clarify.

The status quo criminal justice system closes all avenues of repair and neglects the voices of the parties involved.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Erica A. Frederiksen 1</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Punishment and Political Community: Restorative Justice and the Project of Criminal Justice Reform</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Ph.D. Candidate</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 6pt;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Department of Political Science, University of Toronto August 28-31, 2008.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">"In its present form the.... segregated from the rest of society."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Restorative justice allows the criminal and the victim to deliberate about the morality of the events.</span>

<span class="Author-Date">Garvey 03</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Stephen P, Law Prof @ Cornell, “Restorative Justice, Punishment & Atonement” Utah LR, 03, </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">privateweb.law.utah.edu/_webfiles/academic/journals/utahlawreview/2003_1/09Garvey.pdf</span>
"My claim here is that when...into the community as a member in good standing."


Restorative justice allows for the construction of moral norms through deliberations. These deliberations produce written agreements that both parties comply with. Emperics prove.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';"> Baltimore Sun </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">on December 16,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';"> 2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">“A prescription for juvenile justice Instead of focusing on the failings of our youth detention centers, invest in proven preventive measures”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/opinion/oped/bs-ed-djs-20101216,0,2911097.story]]</span>

"Among the successful interventions... support to get connected to real opportunities."

Victims who participate in restorative justice are more satisfied participants of the criminal justice system. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Latimer 01</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeff Latimer, Craig Dowden, Danielle Muise. “The Effectiveness of Restorative Justice Practices: A Meta-Analysis.” Department of Justice Canada – Research and Stats Division. 2001.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The overall mean effect size for the .... were significantly more satisfied."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Restoration solidifies communal norms against crime and promotes cohesion, Frederiksen2</span>

"Christie sees crime first... robs citizens of these crucial opportunities."

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Restorative justice can enable political reform that makes existing laws clearer and new laws out of communal norms so both will be followed, Frederiksen3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">"In addition to disseminating the message... too abstract to be easily followed."</span>
==Negative== 
===Fiscal Cliff DA=== 
Fiscal cliff passes now; failure of plan B injects urgency into legislators. Klein 12/21,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rick, ABC News Just In Time For Christmas — Fiscal Cliff Chaos (The Note), http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/12/just-in-time-for-christmas-fiscal-cliff-chaos-the-note/</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Last night’s debacle...</span>legacy of 2012.

If there’s one thing that will incense House Republicans it’s eliminating capital punishment. The general public supports death penalty, even those informed about its inefficacy. Republicans have even greater support.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Liz</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Halloran, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">11, </span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">Death Penalty Retains Support, Even With Pro-Life Catholics, Despite Flaws</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"Sixty-four percent...has remained consistent.</span>


The speaker of the House, John Boehner, would be outraged. He’s voted for so many laws in favor of retributivism and the death penalty it’s not even funny.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">From John Boehner’s voting track record: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.ontheissues.org/OH/John_Boehner.htm]] Ontheissues.com</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Voted NO on...penalty. (Sep 1994).</span>



And the Republican platform conceded they want the death penalty.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Republican National Platform 2012 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.gop.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/2012GOPPlatform.pdf</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Liberals do not...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">capital murder cases.</span>__**


Means economic collapse. Walsh et al. 12/21:

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama outlines fiscal cliff-deficit deal in stages, By Deirdre Walsh, Dana Bash and Tom Cohen, CNN, 7:37 PM EST, Fri December 21, 2012, http://www.cnn.com/2012/12/21/politics/fiscal-cliff/index.html</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The main issue...</span>emerge from recession.


Economic collapse results in global nuclear war and likely, extinction. Friedberg and Schenfeld 08:

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron Friedberg-professor of politics and international relations at the Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel Schoenfeld-visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute, 10/21/2008, The Dangers of a Diminished America, The Wall Street Journal, p. HYPERLINK "http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj" http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Then </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">there are...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">and geopolitical power.</span>
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
[[media type="custom" key="21832840"]]