[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Other Plan text disclosure can be found here:=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #3b5998; display: block; font-family: 'lucida grande',tahoma,verdana,arial,sans-serif; text-align: left; text-decoration: initial;">[[@https://dl.dropbox.com/u/1816420/CPS%20plan%20texts.docx]]</span>
===Education Plan=== 
A. Text: The USFG ought to value rehabilitation over retribution by implementing rehabilitative education in accordance international standards.
- I reserve the right to clarify.

B. Topicality:
Greene provides a legal definition of rehabilitation; it is equivalent with education.
(
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: center;">Michael K. Greene “SHOW ME THE MONEY!” SHOULD TAXPAYER FUNDS BE USED TO EDUCATE PRISONERS UNDER THE GUISE OF REDUCING RECIDIVISM?</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">24 New Eng. J. on Crim. & Civ. Confinement 173New England Journal on Criminal and Civil Confinement (winter 98))</span>

Liberalism has been...law-abiding, functional citizen.

C. Inherency:
# A. Most prisoners lack education, and only a small percentage are even exposed to rehabilitative education in prisons.Harlow explains in a Bureau of Justice study <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Caroline Wolf Harlow, Ph.D. Jauary 1, 2003 NCJ 195670 http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/index.cfm?ty=pbdetail&iid=814)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Compares educational attainment...a correctional facility.</span>


Whitney 1 furthers that most prisoners enter prison even without a GED
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Emily A. Whitney "Correctional Rehabilitation Programs and the Adoption of International Standards: How the United States Can Reduce Recidivism and Promote the National Interest" (09)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How does education...reentry into society.</span>


D. Solvency: Whitney 2 advocates to adopt international standards regarding education in prison

The final sections...ratify international treaties.

Whitney 3 explains these standards

The Conventions Against...politically and fiscally.

E. Advantages
1. Recidivism. Educational programs in prisons are the most effective form of rehabilitation to prevent recidivism. Whitney 4 provides empirical warrants.

Academics also directly...with disciplinary infractions.

2. Soft Power. Implementing international standards in rehabilitation programs is key to maintaining America's image and soft power. Whitney 5


Numerous reservations cling...enacting global change.

Maintaining U.S. soft power is the most important impact in the globalized world. Nye explains
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joseph S. Nye Jr. - Distinguished Service Professor and former Dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, co-founder of neoliberalist theory in IR, former Deputy to the Undersecretary of State for Security Assistance, Science, and Technology, former chair of the National Security Council Group on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons, former chair of the National Intelligence Council, and former chair of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, “Public Diplomacy and Soft Power,” The ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Volume 616 Number 1, p. 94-109, </span>

Power always depends...help of others.









<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
==Negative== 

====Kantian NC==== 
Pure practical reason avoids this infinite regress – the only way to avoid begging the question is to stop the infinite regress by way of implicit value. Velleman 
David. Velleman. Self To Self. 2006. Cambridge University Press. Kindle. Chapter 2: A Brief Introduction to Kantian Ethics

As we have seen, ... act for reasons.

<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> Thus the criterion is consistency with universizability. Prefer Universalizability for two more reasons</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">I contend that retribution best accounts for universalizability.</span>

First, the inmate has willed punishment on themselves by committing the crime.

Second, it is logically contradictory to use someone as a means to an end. Engstrom:
Stephen Engstrom “Universal Legislation as the Form of Practical Knowledge”

Given the preceding … that same freedom.
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]