[[toc]]
=Round 1= 

Space Debris Aff
-Russia
-Heg
-Satellites (India, Disease, Korea, NATO)

See CPS RR Affirmative

=Round 2= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">neg vs. cathedral prep bh</span>== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">-cybersecurity politics disad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">-earth science tradeoff disad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">-sacred cow disad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">-colonization bad disad </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">-isro cp</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">-recommend cp</span>

==1nc politics da== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cybersecurity is passing but Obama’s continued push is key </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rushe, 4-27</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Dominic, Cispa approved by House but critics urge Senate to block 'horrible' bill, Guardian, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2012/apr/27/cispa-house-senate-bill?newsfeed=true]]. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Richardson said </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">senior figures…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> civilian nature of cyberspace."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan is a political nightmare</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Robertson, 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Donald F., freelance space industry journalist, trade writer, and technical writer, “The Mars train wreck,” The Space Review, 2/24/03, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/5/1]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Before it even gets underway…. the Mars scientists themselves.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fritz 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Jason, Former Captain of the U.S. Army, July, Hacking Nuclear Command and Control, [[http://www.icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.doc|www.icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.doc]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The US uses the two-man rule…. accusations between governments. </span>

==1nc isro cp== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Indian Space Research Organization </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">should send a direct staffed mission to Mars within ten years for the purpose of establishing a space colony. **The Indian Space Research Organization should request that the United States federal government provide the necessary resources for the aforementioned mission. We’ll clarify** </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The CP solves -- India’s program is gaining momentum and past successes prove it has necessary capabilities. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wax 09— Washington Post Staff Writer, Foreign Service (Emily, Nov 4, 2009, “India's space ambitions taking off” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/11/03/AR2009110303419.html?sid=ST2009110400142)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The ascendancy of India's space….We will look back on this as a turning point."</span>


=Round 3= 
==1ac baluva advantage== 
**Fusion bombs create <span class="underline0">the greatest risk for nuclear use</span> – fallout contains the risk of nuclear war – only fusion bombs are clean enough to trigger escalation**
Makhijani, Et.al. ‘3 – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">President of the Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, Ph.D. in Engineering @ Berkeley Arjun, Ph.D, and Hisham, “Dangerous Thermonuclear Quest: The Potential of Explosive Fusion Research for the Development of Pure Fusion Weapons,” Report for Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, Orig. July 1998, Edited 2003, http://www.ieer.org/reports/fusion/dtq.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since the Indian and Pakistani nuclear tests of May ... larger than a conventional explosive with the same blast effect.</span>

**Ignition triggers <span class="underline0">Fusion bombs</span>**
Gsponer & Hurni ‘8 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Scientists @ the Swiss Independent Scientific Research Institute</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Andre Gsponer and Jean-Pierre Hurni, Independent Scientift Research Institute, March 22, 2008, http://www.scribd.com/doc/17284232/ITER-Proliferation-Implications</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">'Ignition," the last item stressed in the 1997 assessment of ICF, refers to the fact that macroscopic processes like thermonuclear plasma ignition are still not well understood. Special ICF targets which absorb the driver energy and convert it to x-rays enable H-bomb ignition physics to be studied directly. Moreover, ignition techniques different from the Teller- Ulam concept can also be studied, or discovered, using ICF. "Fast ingition" using a superlaser, or the replacement of the "sparkplug" by a minute amount of antimatter [40]. are examples of such new concepts.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The important conclusion is that, whatever the details</span>, ... than would otherwise be possible.

**IGNITOR will trigger <span class="underline0">fusion ignition</span>**
**Nature ‘10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Italy and Russia fund fusion reactor to rival ITER, Nature.Com, April 28, 2010 http://blogs.nature.com/news/thegreatbeyond/2010/04/italy_and_russia_fund_fusion_r.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Italy and</span>Russia plan to build up a <span class="underline0">new </span>nuclear ... has till now cost Italy around €20 million. According to a 2003 ENEA estimate, additional € 226 million will be needed to build IGNITOR.

**Bulavas are key to Russia’s attempts to reestablish strategic deterrence---causes miscalculated nuclear war and extinction**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Engdahl 7</span> – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">F. William Engdahl, contributor to the Centre for Research on Globalization, February 20, 2007, “Putin and the Geopolitics of the New Cold War: Or, what happens when Cowboys don’t shoot straight like they used to… ,” online: http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=4873 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In April 2006, the Russian military tested the K65M-R missile,</span><span class="card">...</span> Russia and the United States would<span class="boldunderline">irradiate the planet and</span>, perhaps, end human civilization in the process.
<span class="underline0">**Russian brain drain ending**</span> **– triggering <span class="underline0">mega-projects like IGNITOR</span>**
Aristov 12-30, **’10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Staff Reporter @ Voice of Russia Russian scientists involved in international megaprojects, Mikhail Aristov, Dec 30, 2010, http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/12/30/38342772.html</span>
Russian scientists have been involved ... by getting involving in large-scale international scientific projects.

**Brain drain in Russia will block deployment of the Baluva missile**
G.M.N.R ‘9 – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Translated Russian Military Journal Global Military: Global Military News and Report, November 4, 2009 http://www.global-military.com/u-s-media-said-the-latest-russian-submarine-launched-missile-is-a-waste-can-not-be-successfully-developed.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">U.S. Global strategic networks November 4, published an article ... capable of producing management personnel are inseparable. Therefore, they have had the “Bulava” missile production to another for better weapons factories recommendations.</span>

<span class="underline0">**Critical skilled worker shortages**</span> **are the <span class="underline0">key stumbling block </span>for the Bulava**
Kramnick 10,– <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Military Analyst @ RIA Novosti Ilya Kramnik, RIA Novosti, “Russian strategic Nuclear Plans: Mission Uncertain,” 12-21, ‘10 http://en.rian.ru/analysis/20101221/161874821.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The first such submarine, the Yury Dolgoruky, ... defense sector are relatively small</span>.

**Brain drain destroys Skolkovo --- migrants will __choose the US over Russia__**
RIA Novosti 10, Brain drain reversed: will foreign professionals come to Russia?, 5-14-10, http://en.rian.ru/analysis/20100514/159020763.html
<span class="underline0">The </span>Russia<span class="underline0">n government </span>is ready<span class="underline0"> to cut ... planned to work as consultant or manager in Russia.</span>



==1ac aerospace== 
**Military power ensures hegemony – resolves in coalition building and deters new threats – the alternative is global war**
**Zhang and Shi 11** (Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi is from Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” 1/21/11, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This does not necessarily mean that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>__

**Statistics prove violence has decreased due to hegemony**
**Barnett 11** (Thomas Barnett**,** <span style="color: #000000;">American military geostrategist</span> and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat World Politics Review, 9/19/11, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/10047/the-new-rules-credit-the-u-s-not-the-u-n-for-more-peaceful-world</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Thanks to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks ... more involved in managing the world's security after the Soviet threat disappeared. </span>

**Hegemony deescalates and solves all global nuclear conflict**
**Kagan, 12** [2/7/12, Robert, The World America Made, Master Harvard, Ph.D American U, Columnist for the Washington Post, listed a top 100 public intellectual, p. Amazon Kindle]
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> unusual </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">combination of vast power and</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> r...rising powers might pursue more ambitious policies because</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **war would be** </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">a more</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **viable**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> option. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">American leadership solves war — other countries can’t fill in and the alternative is transition wars and economic collapse</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kagan, 12</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">— senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution (Robert, “Why the World Needs America”, The Wall Street Journal, 2/11/2012,http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">History shows that world orders, including our own,... power </span>was not peace <span class="Underline">and harmony</span> but chaos and catastrophe<span style="font-size: 8px;">—which is what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.</span>

**North Korea conflict draws the US into <span class="underline0">escalatory superpower war</span>**
Stares and Wit ‘9, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Sr. Fellow for Conflict Prevention at the C.F.R. & Adjunct Sr. Research Fellow @ Weatherhead East Asia Institute, Columbia University, 2009 (Paul and Joel, “Preparing for Sudden Change in North Korea,” January, available for download at[[http://www.cfr.org/]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">These various scenarios would present the United States ... doubt </span>harbors<span class="underline0"> similar </span>fears about<span class="underline0"> potential </span>South Korean and American intervention i<span class="underline0">n the North.</span>

<span class="texto1">**Iranian conflict goes nuclear --- credible deterrence’s key to solve** </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ben-Meir 7</span> <span style="font-size: 12px;">(Alon Ben-Meir, professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at NYU, 2/6/07, Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance, http://www.upi.com/Security_Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/)</span>
Feeling emboldened <span class="underline0">and unrestrained</span>,... which dreads major U.S. punitive measures.

<span class="underline0">**North Korean**</span> **and <span class="underline0">Iranian adventurism</span> and <span class="underline0">risk-taking</span> triggers <span class="underline0">escalation and war</span>**
Dibb ‘6, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Emeritus Prof of IR @ Australian National University, Sydney Morning Herald (Australia), August 15, 2006 Tuesday, As one nuclear flashpoint reaches a lull, another simmers away, Pg. 11, Lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">NOW that the building blocks for achieving a cessation ... collision between Iran and Israel </span><span class="underline0">in the Middle East</span>.

<span class="underline0">**Credible commitments**</span> **are necessary to deter <span class="underline0">Iran and North Korea</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Arbuckle 8</span> <span style="font-size: 12px;">[Larry J., "The Deterrence of Nuclear Terrorism through an Attribution Capability", Naval Postgraduate School, Thesis for master of science in defense analysis, approved by Professor Robert O'Connell, and Gordon McCormick, Chairman, Department of Defense Analysis, Naval Postgraduate School, June]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Additionally, </span>the deterrent threat should be made clearly,...North Korean or Iranian assessment of the dangers of transferring nuclear weapons.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan’s key to conventional deterrence </span>
Rebecca <span style="font-size: 16px;">Grant 9</span>, Ph.D., a senior fellow of the Lexington Institute, “U.S. air superiority faces new challenges”, March 17, http://www.upi.com/Security_Industry/2009/03/17/US-air-superiority-faces-new-challenges/UPI-53251237298018/
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">ARLINGTON, Va., March 17 (UPI) -- </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">In the last two </span>...**<span style="font-size: 12px;">__advantage for granted or rely on airpower's conventional deterrence for much longer.__</span>**

**Military primacy requires the best scientists – denying foreign access kills primacy**
Paarlberg ‘4 - Prof. of Poli. Sci. at Wellesley, and Assoc.at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard
Science, Military Dominance, and U.S. Security, Robert L. Paarlberg, International Security 29.1 (2004) 122-151
Conclusion: Smart Weapons, and Policies, against Asymmetric Threats
Military primacy <span class="underline0">today</span>rests on scientific ... monitoring the air for biological attack.

<span class="Underline">**Economic collapse causes extinction**</span>
**Green and Schrage, 09** - <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee (Michael J., and Stephen P, “It's not just the economy,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span>
__Facing the worst economic crisis__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">since the Great Depression... trafficking in persons. It would also undermine the demonstration effect of liberal norms we are urging China to embrace at home.</span>

**Aerospace key to economy**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">National Aerospace Week 10</span> (September 18, ) National Aerospace Week
“Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]])
As the U.S. economy continues to move... technology engineering and mathematics (STEM) will help reenergize an aging aerospace workforce with an infusion of younger employees
==1ac solvency== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The plan drains Russia of its highly skilled workers</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MALAKHA 2</span> (<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Irina, researcher funded by Russian Foundation for Humanities, “external migrations in russia in 1992-2000: evaluation of educational structure,” WIDER Conference on Poverty, International Migration and Asylum, 27 - 28 September 2002, http://website1.wider.unu.edu/conference/conference-2002-3/conference%20papers/malakha.pdf) </span>
<span class="underline0">The </span>emigration flow to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">wards </span>the US<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A </span>...intellectual<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> emigration or "</span>brain drain<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">" that are a </span>irretrievable losses of<span class="underline0"> the high skilled </span>human capital<span class="underline0"> and </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">first of all </span><span class="underline0">national intellectual potential</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span class="underline0">**Labor crisis**</span> **in aerospace now – temporary workers key to industry <span class="underline0">competitiveness and innovation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">AIAA 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">--American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, "Recruiting, retaining, and developing a world-class aerospace workforce: An AIAA Information Paper, presented at the AIAA's 13th Annual AIAA Congressional Visits Day in March 2010, pdf, http://www.doleta.gov/brg/indprof/aerospace_report.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Without a strong aerospace workforce,... </span><span class="underline0">that </span>the US may retain talented foreign nationals<span class="underline0">in STEM professions </span>critical to the aerospace industry.

**Visa restrictions are the biggest problem --- domestic workforce can’t solve**
David <span style="font-size: 16px;">Thompson 9</span>, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">President – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and Dr. Richard Aubrecht, Vice President of Strategy and Technology – Moog, Inc., “The Aerospace Workforce”, Federal News Service, 12-10, Lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">And finally, </span><span class="underline0">despite our best **efforts to increase** </span>**...**would<span class="underline0"> just </span>love to come<span class="underline0"> to the U.S. and </span>work on these programs<span class="underline0">. This is where it's happening. </span>But they<span class="Box"> just </span>can't get<span class="Box"> the </span>visas.

**Shortages cause a ripple effect on the supply chain – overall power will collapse – human space is key**
David <span style="font-size: 16px;">Thompson 9</span>, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">President – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and Dr. Richard Aubrecht, Vice President of Strategy and Technology – Moog, Inc., “The Aerospace Workforce”, Federal News Service, 12-10, Lexis</span>
Aerospace systems <span class="underline0">are of considerable**<span class="underline0">...series of disruptive changes</span>**</span> in the <span class="underline0">common industrial supply</span> base that **our entire space sector relies on.**
==1ac plan text== 
**The United States federal government should provide H1-B visas to non United States scientists to create new technologies to further the United States’ non colonization based staffed exploration of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

=Round 4= 
=Round 5= 
Debris -- same as round 1
=Round 6= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">neg vs. gbs ot</span>== 

-topicality -- substantial
-politics disad
-advantage cp
-recommend cp
-nato da
-sacred cow da
==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1nc nato da</span>== 

**Plan sacrifices NATO missile defense structure**
Jonah **Friedman**, 20**11** [Jonah writer for the Center for strategic and international studies “The forest or the Trees?” [[http://csis.org/blog/forest-or-trees]]]
Yet, evidently such issues do exist…<span class="underline">like Iran, North Korea or China.</span>

**Compromised MD results in terrorist attacks**
Joe Pitts, U.S. Representative (R-PA), 11-2, 2007, online: http://www.truthnews.net/world/2007100430.htm, accessed November 5, 2007
The strange irony is…defense against a nuclear armed.

**Global nuclear war**
**Speice, 6** (Patrick, JD Candidate, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, Lexis)
Terrorist groups could acquire…use of nuclear weapons.
=Round 7= 
==1ac debris advantage== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention one is collisions </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris has reached a tipping point – spills over and makes miscalc inevitable </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bridge 4/4/12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Robert Bridge, Russia Times, staff writer, cites Yury Zaitsev, Russian Academy of Engineering Sciences, “Curb Your Space Junk, Russia Warns,” http://rt.com/politics/russia-space-debris-us-military-237/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As more nations …collision deserve consideration. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites solve all war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Su 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Jinyuan Su, The Silk Road Institute of International Law, School of Law, Xi'an Jiaotong University, China and Visiting Fellow, The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, University of Cambridge, UK. “The “peaceful purposes” principle in outer space and the Russia-China PPWT Proposal,” http://www.macalester.edu/internationalstudies/Su%202010.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nothing of what the states…deployment or operations.59 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">They’re key to prevent ASW collapse </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Peter J. Brown, journalist specializing in US satellite technology, former senior multimedia editor for “Via Satellite” magazine, “US Satellites Shadow China’s Submarines,” Asia Times, May 13, 2010, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/LE13Ad01.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Detecting submarines via satellite…track PLAN submarines. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is key to prevent North Korean attacks </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Finch 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Lieutenant Commander David P. Finch, EA Chief of Transformation, “Anti-submarine Warfare (ASW) Capability Transformation: Strategy of Response to Effects Based Warfare,” Collective C2 in Multinational Civil-Military Operations, Command and Control Research Program, 16th ICCRTS, Paper ID 103, http://www.dodccrp.org/events/16th_iccrts_2011/papers/103.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The importance of our ability…achieve national objectives.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global nuclear war – submarine attacks uniquely cause escalation </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stratfor 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Managing Escalation But no one,… they might be if the situation escalates much further. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris collapses NATO – space assets are crucial to their military transformation </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Single 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Major Thomas Single, United States Air Force, Joint Air Power Competence Centre, “NATO Space Operations Assessment,” January 30, 2009, https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/NATOSpaceO/file/_WFS/NATO%20Space%20Ops%20Assessment%20Jan%2009.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">4.2. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Modern military forces</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">….and requires a COP.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NATO military transformation prevents extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Albright et. al, 10 </span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Madeline, former secretary of state under president Clinton, assistant professor at Georgetown School of Foreign Service, NATO group of experts, NATO 2020: Assured Security; Dynamic Engagement)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Military transformation: a work in…its collective will.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collapses India’s satellites </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Shashwat 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Senior Assistant Editor, Dataquest, “Space Debris a Concern: ISRO Chief,” February 15, 2009, http://shashwatdc.com/2009/02/space-debris-a-concern-isro-chief/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Recently, when I spoke to </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">…ones from ISRO.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is Chinese invasion of Tibet and India </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chriqui 06 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Jacob Chriqui, research intern, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, “Military Applications of India’s Space Program: The Military Surveillance and Reconnaissance System,” June 20, 2006, http://www.ipcs.org/article/military/military-applications-of-indias-space-program-the-military-surveillance-and-2043.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">India's satellite intelligence …movement of Chinese troops.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kahn 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jeremy, Pew International Journalism Fellow – Johns Hopkins University and Former Managing Editor – New Republic, “Why India Fears China”, Newsweek, 10-10, http://www.newsweek.com/id/217088)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">China claims some 90,000 square…Tibetan resistance to Chinese authority.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1ac insurance advantage</span>== 


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention two is insurance </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space insurance is at a tipping point – a single failure guarantees collapse </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">de Selding 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Peter B., Correspondent – Space News, “Falling Satellite Insurance Premiums Put Market at Risk of Major Upheaval”, Space News, 23(9), 3-5, p. 1, 5)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> DUBAI, United Arab Emirates —…provoke a big reaction</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That collapse global industries --- tanks Earth monitoring, and EU soft power</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Oborne 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael, Director of the International Futures Programme – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Space 2030: Exploring the Future of Space Applications, p. 42-49)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nonetheless, the recovery is…on the world stage</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Earth monitoring solves extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Killeen 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Timothy L. Killeen, Director – National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science”, CQ Congressional Testimony, 4-28, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NASA Earth science programs…simultaneous multiple stresses.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">EU soft power solves extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brunton 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (John, Deputy – Joint Committee on European Affairs, “The Future of the European Union”, 10, [[http://www.irlgov.ie/committees-02/c-europeanaffairs/future/page1.htm|www.irlgov.ie/committees-02/c-europeanaffairs/future/page1.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As the Laeken Declaration put it, …will otherwise overwhelm us</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Commercial space collapse makes resource wars inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collins and</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **Autino, 9** (Patrick and Adriano, “What the Growth of a Space Tourism Industry Could Contribute to Employment, Economic Growth, Environmental Protection, Education, Culture and World Peace”, Collins - Life & Environmental Science, Professor of economics at Azabu University, 1-17-71 Fuchinobe, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 229-8501, Japan, Autino - Andromeda Inc., Italy, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/what_the_growth_of_a_space_tourism_industry_could_contribute_to-employment_economic_growth_environmental_protection_education_culture_and_world_peace.shtml)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The major source of social…the resources they need!</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Heinberg, 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Richard, Senior Fellow of Post Carbon Institute, Book Excerpt: Powerdown: Options and Actions for a Port-Carbon World, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/2291)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Last One Standing – The path of …attests to its likelihood.</span>


==1ac interference advantage== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention three is interference </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Orbital slots competition is high now </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Powersat, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Intercollegiate SPS Design Competition”, http://powersatcontest.com/comp.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Earth orbit in 2015 is a …communication satellite "slots".</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Radio frequencies are also at a premium</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jaramillo, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Cesar, “Space Security”, “How Secure Was Space in 2009?”, Volume 31, Issue 3, Autumn 2010, http://www.ploughshares.ca/content/how-secure-was-space-2009)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The pool of stakeholders …/security uses of space.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is reaching the tipping point </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lynn, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense and senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (William, “A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment”, Washington Quarterly, 34(3), pg. 7-16)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space is also cluttered by electronic …longer seems quite so limitless.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This makes space war inevitable </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hyten, 2k</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — Major General, Director of Space Programs at the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, graduate of Harvard University (John E., “A Sea of Peace or a Theater of War: Dealing with the Inevitable Conflict in Space”, Program in Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security, p. 33, April 2000)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The pressures on the space frontier …involving the United States.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That guarantees U.S. miscalculation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">POST, 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, UK, “Military uses of space”, postnote, Number 273, December 2006, http://www.parliament.uk/documents/upload/postpn273.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">National space policies, while giving importance…over orbital slot allocations (Box 5).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Also foreign miscalc</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coffelt 05 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Lt. Colonel; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OF US SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, June 2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Those that operate satellite systems and are …already beginning to occur.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mitchell</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, et al., **1** – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, No. 6, July 2001, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A buildup of space weapons might begin …**most destructive military conflict** ever seen.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Also Russian first strike</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Arbatov, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — Head of the Center for International Security at the Russian Academy of Science’s Institute for World Economy and International Relations (Alexei, “Toward a Theory of Spacepower”, “Russian Perspectives on Space power”, Chapter 23, 2011, http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch23.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">***NOTE: LOW = launch-on-warning**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">However, Russia's dependence on …strategic space systems interaction.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Helfand and Pastore 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the end of the Cold War, many …own by executive order.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independently crushes GPS </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Klotz, 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — Lieutenant General, Commander of Air Force Global Strike Command at Barksdale Air Force Base, former White House Fellow in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and at the State Department, former professor at the Air Force Academy, former Defense Plans Officer at NATO Headquarters, former Defense Attaché at the American Embassy in Moscow, former Director for Nuclear Policy and Arms Control with the National Security Council at the White House, former Assistant Vice Chief of Staff and Director of Air Force Staff (Frank G., “Space, Commerce, and National Security”, Council on Foreign Relations, p. 23-4, January 1999)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The scramble for geosynchronous…-is a case in point.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Backups fail – interference has a total force effect</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">McGrath 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas M. McGrath, B.S. @ Virginia Tech and M.S. @ Naval Postgraduate School, “What Happens if the Stars Go Out? U.S. Army Dependence on the Global Positioning System” 2-2009 http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada520135.pdf)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Another key point to ….in a degraded condition.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is agriculture </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pham, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Precision Agriculture. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">input savings to be 15 percent.14</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lugar 2k </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Richard, a US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, “calls for a new green revolution to combat global warming and reduce world instability,” pg online @ [[http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html]]) </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In a world confronted by global….the health of our planet. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">GPS also prevents Caribbean narcoterrorism </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Purdy 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, “The Increasing Role of Robots in National Security” May-June 2008, Defense AT&L, pg 27, pg online)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In U.S. Southern Command’s area…and harmed by insurgents. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That triggers LNG explosions and bioterror </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Flynn and Bryan 01 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Stephen, Senior Fellow @ CFR and Commander in US Coast Guard, and Anthony, Dir. North-South Center’s Caribbean Program, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation” October 21, 2001, pg online @ CFR)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Terrorist acts can take place anywhere…within national borders. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">LNG explosions are the equivalent of global nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lovins and Lovins 01 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“Brittle Power,” 2001 [[http://www.rmi.org/images/other/EnergySecurity/S82-03_BrPwrParts123.pdf]]) </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">LNG is less than half as dense as …fifty-five Hiroshima bombs. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bioweapons cause extinction </span>

Matheny, 7** (Jason G., Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction, Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5)
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Of current extinction risks,….Shuler, 2006).</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1ac solvency</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention four is solvency </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan solves interference </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Goddard</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Space Flight Center **10** (Goddard Space Flight Center, Space Servicing Capabilities Project, Flight Projects Directorate, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, “On-Orbit Satellite Servicing Study Project Report”, October 2010, http://ssco.gsfc.nasa.gov/images/NASA_Satellite%20Servicing_Project_Report_0511.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Commercial space applications ….just beginning to be explored.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cobra array solves </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Draim</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> and Cefola, **7** — Vice President of Astrodynamics and Launch Vehicles at Space Resource America Corporation, AND, technical staff at the MIT/Lincoln Laboratory (John E. and Dr. Paul J. Cefola, “Seamless Handovers in Cobra Teardrop Satellite Arrays”, Acta Astronautica, Vol. 61, pg. 139-150, 3/27/2007, science direct)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the basic Cobra array…5760 equivalent GEO slots.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Absent the plan, space insurance and commercial space will collapse </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Long </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">et. al, **07** (Andrew Graduate, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division; [[mailto:andrewlong@alum.mit.edu.|andrewlong@alum.mit.edu.]] Member AIAA. †Research Assistant, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division, NE20-343, 77 Massachusetts Avenue; [[mailto:mgr@mit.edu.|mgr@mit.edu.]] Member AIAA. ‡Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems, Dean for Undergraduate Education, 4-110, 77 Massachusetts Avenue; [[mailto:hastings@mit.edu.|hastings@mit.edu.]] Fellow AIAA “On Orbit Servicing: A new value proposition for satellite design and operation” http://web.mit.edu/mgr/www/Portfolio/On-Orbit%20Servicing%20-%20A%20New%20Value%20Proposition%20for%20Satellite%20Design%20and%20Operation.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CURRENT satellite architectures….satellite design and operations [5].</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan lowers launch costs and invigorates the launch industry – solves insurance </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Long </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">et. al, **07** (Andrew Graduate, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division; [[mailto:andrewlong@alum.mit.edu.|andrewlong@alum.mit.edu.]] Member AIAA. †Research Assistant, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division, NE20-343, 77 Massachusetts Avenue; [[mailto:mgr@mit.edu.|mgr@mit.edu.]] Member AIAA. ‡Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems, Dean for Undergraduate Education, 4-110, 77 Massachusetts Avenue; [[mailto:hastings@mit.edu.|hastings@mit.edu.]] Fellow AIAA “On Orbit Servicing: A new value proposition for satellite design and operation” http://web.mit.edu/mgr/www/Portfolio/On-Orbit%20Servicing%20-%20A%20New%20Value%20Proposition%20for%20Satellite%20Design%20and%20Operation.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Servicing provides options for ….over theaters of operation.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan solves all debris </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Weeden, 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — advisor to the Secure World Foundation and former Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations (Brian, “Dealing with Galaxy 15: Zombiesats and on-orbit servicing”, The Space Review, 5/24/2010, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1634/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That may soon be changing. …in December 2009.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It also solves the risk of collisions </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Draim, 9</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — Vice President of Astrodynamics and Launch Vehicles at Space Resource America Corporation and aerospace consultant (John E., “SIXTEEN-HOUR DROPLET CONSTELLATIONS FOR NORTHERN HEMISPHERE COVERAGE”, 3/15/2009, http://www.agi.com/downloads/partners/business/resources/ICSSC2009-3.3.2.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">There are numerous advantages…the Van Allen radiation belts.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Status quo guarantees satellite failure </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sullivan 5</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Brook Rowland, “TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY OF TELEROBOTIC ON-ORBIT SATELLITE SERVICING,” dissertation submitted to the Faculty of the Graduate School of the University of Maryland, 2005, http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/2330/1/umi-umd-2164.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A primary motivator for this analysis is…failure mitigation services include:</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No disad uniqueness </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Klingler 3/21 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Dave Klingler, studied astrophysics and pure mathematics and computer science at the University of New Mexico “In-Orbit refueling tests begin at International Space Station” http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2012/03/astronauts-at-iss-begin-learning-to-refuel-spacecraft-in-orbit.ars?clicked=related_right)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">On March 9, NASA</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">astronauts</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> aboard…ground test-beds. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We can track debris now </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NRC 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (National Research Council “Limiting Future Collision Risk to Spacecraft: An Assessment of NASA's Meteoroid and Orbital Debris Programs” pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Orbital debris and meteoroids </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">less…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">catalog is about 1 m.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">US government is key </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Smitham 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Lt Col Matthew C. Smitham, USAFLt Col Matthew C. Smitham, USAF, 3RD place for all DoD research in 2010*“The Need for a Global Space-Traffic-Control Service An Opportunity for US Leadership,” http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/maxwell/mp57.pdf. *http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awards.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The US SSN is by far the most….its own capability.40</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NASA spending now </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Roop 4-19</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**-12** - Lee, "NASA 2013 budget looks similar in early Senate, House action," The Huntsville Times, http://blog.al.com/space-news/2012/04/nasa_2013_budget_looks_similar.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">If the U.S. House and Senate …leader in space exploration."</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1ac plan text </span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its on orbit servicing beyond the Earth’s mesosphere including orbit modification to a two degree eight hour layered right and left leaning elliptical non geostationary Communications Orbiting Broadband Repeating Array Teardrop orbit.</span>**


=Octos= 
=1ac debris adv.= 

**Contention one is debris** 

**Space debris has reached a __tipping point__ – spills over and makes miscalc inevitable** 
**Bridge 4/4/12** (Robert Bridge, Russia Times, staff writer, cites Yury Zaitsev, Russian Academy of Engineering Sciences, “Curb Your Space Junk, Russia Warns,” http://rt.com/politics/russia-space-debris-us-military-237/)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As more nations send their own ….. “accidental” space collision deserve consideration. </span>

**This spills over and destroys all satellites** 
**Ansdell 10** (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Currently, </span><span class="Underline">the highest spatial densities </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">….. its own predictive models (ESA 2009a).</span>

**But Turkey is expanding satellite monitoring capability in the status quo – this prevents PKK conflict** 
**TZ 07** (Today’s Zaman, Turkish New Source, “National Satellite System to Offer Intelligence on PKK,” December 24, 2007, http://www.todayszaman.com/news-129918-national-satellite-system-to-offer-intelligence-on-pkk.html)
<span class="Underline">A </span>Turkish satellite<span class="Underline"> project,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> expected ….. and geographical map data production.</span>

**Satellites are key and solve** 
**a) Intelligence** 
**FMSO 11** (Foreign Military Studies Office, “Turkey Concerned over U.S. Withdrawl from Iraq,” Operational Environment Watch, Volume 1, Issue 5, September 2011, http://fmso.leavenworth.army.mil/Archives/GSW/201109.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Regarding the U.S. departure from ….. forces by 31 December 2011.</span>

**b) Actionable counter missions – prevents attacks** 
**ICG 08** (International Crisis Group, “Turkey and Iraqi Kurds: Conflict or Cooperation?” Middle East Report, November 13, 2008, http://www.crisisgroup.org/~/media/Files/Middle%20East%20North%20Africa/Iraq%20Syria%20Lebanon/Iraq/81Turkey%20and%20Iraqi%20Kurds%20Conflict%20or%20Cooperation.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The turning point was the 5 …..timely and </span>actionable [satellite] intelligence.

**PKK spills over to Nagorno-Karabakh and war with Turkey, Armenia and Azerbaijan**
**Blank 2008** – professor at the US Army War College (Stephen, “The Kurdish Issue and Nagorno-Karabakh,” http://www.eurasianet.org/departments/insight/articles/eav052708a.shtml)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Kurdish issue, specifically the …..to root out Kurdish militants.</span>

**Global war—most probable flashpoint in the world**
**Avetyan 2011** – Special Agent, US Department of State, Master’s Thesis for the Joint Advanced Warfighting School at National Defense University (Avetik, “War in the Caucasus is Inevitable”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA545741&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span>__protracted war between Armenia__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..</span> __may blunder unintentionally into war__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Low nuclear threshold means escalation is uncontrolled**
**Blank 2000** – professor of research at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College, (Stephen, “US Military Engagement with Transcaucasia and Central Asia<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">capable of settling the situation.74</span>

**Prefer our evidence—media underestimates the escalatory potential**
**Avetyan 2011** - Special Agent, US Department of State, Master’s Thesis for the JOINT ADVANCED WARFIGHTING SCHOOL at National Defense University (Avetik, “War in the Caucasus is Inevitable”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA545741&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
<span class="Underline">Behind the frozen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> status of …..</span><span class="Underline">for the next world war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Space debris risks __global__ and __catastrophic__ radiation exposure**
**Zaitsev 07** (Yury Zaitsev, expert with the Space Research Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, “TheGrowing Problem Of Space Junk,” RIA Novosti, Space Mart, June 13, 2007, http://www.spacemart.com/reports/The_Growing_Problem_Of_Space_Junk_999.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Accumulation of </span>space debris is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …..</span>**__the atmosphere could be heavily contaminated.__**

**Radioactive re-entry poisons the planet**
**Chong 97** (Daniel Chong, “Nukes in Space: The Final Frontier,” August-September 1997) http://www.sonic.net/~doretk/Issues/97-08%20AUG/nukesinspace.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On October 6TH, NASA is …..</span>__the Earth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as a result."</span>

**Extinction** 
**Grossman** (professor @ SUNY) **3** (Karl, Nuclear Space Story, http://www.envirovideo.com/nuclearspacestory.html, Feb)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. public "is …..</span>__expand the danger to life on Earth.__


=1ac insurance adv.= 

**Contention two is insurance** 

**Space insurance decline collapses __global industries__ --- tanks EU soft power**
**Oborne 4** (Michael, Director of the International Futures Programme – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Space 2030: Exploring the Future of Space Applications, p. 42-49)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nonetheless, </span>__the recovery is expected__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..</span>__prominent role on the world stage.__

**EU soft power solves extinction** 
**Brunton 1** (John, Deputy – Joint Committee on European Affairs, “The Future of the European Union”, 10, www.irlgov.ie/committees-02/c-europeanaffairs/future/page1.htm)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the Laeken Declaration put it, "…..</span>__that will otherwise overwhelm us.__

**Vital to the global economy** 
**Lloyd’s 10** (Lloyd’s Insurance, “Roaming the Final Frontier of Risk”, 11-6, http://www.lloyds.com/News-and-Insight/News-and-Features/360-News/Specialist-360/Roaming-the-final-frontier-of-risk)
It’s just as well, because <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..a controlled explosion,” he says.</span>

**Global economic crisis creates several motives for global war – their defense doesn’t have nearly the same statistical support** 
**Royal, 10** (Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span>__periods__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**Best empirical studies of __system-wide__ growth and conflict prove a __robust__ relationship---decline causes war and growth solves it**
**Reuveny and Thompson 6** – Rafael Reuveny, Professor of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University, and William R. Thompson, Professor of Political Science at Indiana University, 2006, Kondratieff Waves, Warfare, and World Security, p. 210-211
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our next step was to compute …..</span>1ac interference adv.

**Contention three is interference** 

**Orbital slots competition is high now** 
**Powersat, 10** (“Intercollegiate SPS Design Competition”, http://powersatcontest.com/comp.html)
__Earth orbit in 2015 is a very__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..</span>__competition for communication satellite "slots__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">".</span>

**Radio frequencies are also at a premium**
**Jaramillo, 10** (Cesar, “Space Security”, “How Secure Was Space in 2009?”, Volume 31, Issue 3, Autumn 2010, http://www.ploughshares.ca/content/how-secure-was-space-2009)
__The pool of stakeholders with__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">….. military/security uses of space.</span>

**This is reaching the tipping point** 
**Lynn, 11** — U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense and senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (William, “A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment”, Washington Quarterly, 34(3), pg. 7-16)
__Space is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__cluttered by__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..</span>__no longer seems quite so limitless__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**This makes space war inevitable** 
**Hyten, 2k** — Major General, Director of Space Programs at the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, graduate of Harvard University (John E., “A Sea of Peace or a Theater of War: Dealing with the Inevitable Conflict in Space”, Program in Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security, p. 33, April 2000)
__The pressures on the space__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">….. </span>__war involving the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>

**That guarantees U.S. miscalculation**
**POST, 6** (Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, UK, “Military uses of space”, postnote, Number 273, December 2006, http://www.parliament.uk/documents/upload/postpn273.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National space policies, while giving …..</span>__example over orbital slot allocations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Box 5).</span>

**Also foreign miscalc**
**Coffelt 05** – Lt. Colonel; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OF US SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, June 2005)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Those that operate satellite systems …..this is already beginning to occur.</span>

**Extinction** 
**Mitchell**, et al., **1** – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, No. 6, July 2001, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A buildup of space weapons …..</span>**__destructive military conflict__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ever seen.</span>

**Also Russian first strike**
**Arbatov, 11** — Head of the Center for International Security at the Russian Academy of Science’s Institute for World Economy and International Relations (Alexei, “Toward a Theory of Spacepower”, “Russian Perspectives on Space power”, Chapter 23, 2011, http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch23.html)
***NOTE: LOW = launch-on-warning
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__Russia's dependence on__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..dialectics of strategic space systems interaction.</span>

**Extinction** 
**Helfand and Pastore 09** (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the end of the Cold War, …..their own by executive order.</span>
=1ac new adv.= 

**New arctic satellite coverage is key**
**Abell, 11** — Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Air Force Reserve (Tarn M., “ARCTIC SECURITY IN A WARMING WORLD”, thesis submitted to the U.S. Army War College, 3/23/2010, http://www.roa.org/site/DocServer/AbellTSRP.pdf?docID=29001)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A second critical material need …..</span>__anyfuture polar-orbiting satellite systems<span class="Underline">.</span>__

**This prevents war**
**Hodges 11** (Jim Hodges, “Commanding the Arctic,” C4ISR Journal, March 1, 2011, http://www.c4isrjournal.com/story.php?F=5508063)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It was simpler during …..in Parliament want to reduce.</span>

**Global nuclear war** 
**Staples 09** (Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute, “Steps Toward an Arctic Nuclear Weapon Free Zone,” August 10, 2009, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fact is, </span>__the Arctic is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..</span>__or use of nuclear weapons.”__

**This is highly probable** 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WSJ</span> **4/16/12** [Military powers beef up arctic presence, [[http://online.wsj.com/article]]/SB10001424052702304299304577347613251787408.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">YOKOSUKA, Japan—</span>Global military leaders <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..</span> **increase significantly** in the years ahead.

=1ac plan text= 

**The United States federal government should conduct on orbit servicing beyond the mesosphere including orbit modification to an elliptical non geostationary communications orbiting broadband repeating array teardrop orbit.** 
=1ac solvency= 

**Contention five is solvency** 

**The plan solves interference** 
<span class="Underline">**Goddard** Space Flight Center **10** (Goddard Space Flight Center, Space Servicing Capabilities Project, Flight Projects Directorate, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, “On-Orbit Satellite Servicing Study Project Report”, October 2010, http://ssco.gsfc.nasa.gov/images/NASA_Satellite%20Servicing_Project_Report_0511.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commercial space applications pervade …..operations are just beginning to be explored.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Cobra array solves** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Draim** and Cefola, **7** — Vice President of Astrodynamics and Launch Vehicles at Space Resource America Corporation, AND, technical staff at the MIT/Lincoln Laboratory (John E. and Dr. Paul J. Cefola, “Seamless Handovers in Cobra Teardrop Satellite Arrays”, Acta Astronautica, Vol. 61, pg. 139-150, 3/27/2007, science direct)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">***note – 5760 changed to words from original text</span>
In the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> basic </span>Cobra array<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (assuming …..</span>hundred sixty]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> equivalent </span>GEO slots.

**Absent the plan, space insurance and satellite performance collapses** 
<span class="Underline">**Long** et. al, **07** (</span>Andrew Graduate, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division; andrewlong@alum.mit.edu. Member AIAA. †Research Assistant, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division, NE20-343, 77 Massachusetts Avenue; mgr@mit.edu. Member AIAA. ‡Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems, Dean for Undergraduate Education, 4-110, 77 Massachusetts Avenue; hastings@mit.edu. Fellow AIAA “On Orbit Servicing: A new value proposition for satellite design and operation” http://web.mit.edu/mgr/www/Portfolio/On-Orbit%20Servicing%20-%20A%20New%20Value%20Proposition%20for%20Satellite%20Design%20and%20Operation.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CURRENT satellite architectures are designed …..in satellite design and operations [5].</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**The plan is key to solve mission failure**
<span class="Underline">**Long** et. al, **07** (</span>Andrew Graduate, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division; andrewlong@alum.mit.edu. Member AIAA. †Research Assistant, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division, NE20-343, 77 Massachusetts Avenue; mgr@mit.edu. Member AIAA. ‡Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems, Dean for Undergraduate Education, 4-110, 77 Massachusetts Avenue; hastings@mit.edu. Fellow AIAA “On Orbit Servicing: A new value proposition for satellite design and operation” http://web.mit.edu/mgr/www/Portfolio/On-Orbit%20Servicing%20-%20A%20New%20Value%20Proposition%20for%20Satellite%20Design%20and%20Operation.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Servicing provides options for space missions …..capability over theaters of operation.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan solves all** **debris** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Weeden, 10** — </span>advisor to the Secure World Foundation and former Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations (Brian, “Dealing with Galaxy 15: Zombiesats and on-orbit servicing”, The Space Review, 5/24/2010, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1634/1)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That may soon be changing. Recently, …..</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;"> Debris Removal, held in December 2009.</span>

<span class="Underline">**It also solves** **collisions and polar coverage** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Draim, 9**</span>— Vice President of Astrodynamics and Launch Vehicles at Space Resource America Corporation and aerospace consultant (John E., “SIXTEEN-HOUR DROPLET CONSTELLATIONS FOR NORTHERN HEMISPHERE COVERAGE”, 3/15/2009, http://www.agi.com/downloads/partners/business/resources/ICSSC2009-3.3.2.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are </span>numerous advantages<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> accruing …..</span><span class="Underline"> the Van Allen radiation belts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Status quo __guarantees__ satellite failure** 
<span class="Underline">**Sullivan 5**</span>(Brook Rowland, “TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY OF TELEROBOTIC ON-ORBIT SATELLITE SERVICING,” dissertation submitted to the Faculty of the Graduate School of the University of Maryland, 2005, http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/2330/1/umi-umd-2164.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A primary motivator for this …..</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">On-orbit failure mitigation services include:</span>

**We can track debris now** 
**NRC 11** (National Research Council “Limiting Future Collision Risk to Spacecraft: An Assessment of NASA's Meteoroid and Orbital Debris Programs” pdf)
<span class="Underline">Orbital </span>debris<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and meteoroids </span><span class="Underline">less </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..satellite catalog is about 1 m.</span>

**US government is key** 
**Smitham 10** (Lt Col Matthew C. Smitham, USAFLt Col Matthew C. Smitham, USAF, 3RD place for all DoD research in 2010*“The Need for a Global Space-Traffic-Control Service An Opportunity for US Leadership,” http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/maxwell/mp57.pdf. *http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awards.htm)
The US SSN is<span class="Underline"> by </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..develop its own capability.40</span>

**US key – otherwise we get locked out of the market and uncertainty causes collapse** 
**Burton**, **7** - Lt Col. USAF [“GLOBALIZED SPACELIFT: A THREAT TO ASSURED ACCESS”, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_49ad2600-7fa9-4b95-87f2-2a2376985905/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]
__The U.S. cannot afford to__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">….. dominance of the </span>__high ground.__

**No disad uniqueness** 
**Klingler 3/21** (Dave Klingler, studied astrophysics and pure mathematics and computer science at the University of New Mexico “In-Orbit refueling tests begin at International Space Station” http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2012/03/astronauts-at-iss-begin-learning-to-refuel-spacecraft-in-orbit.ars?clicked=related_right)
<span class="Underline">On March 9, </span>NASA<span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">astronauts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> aboard …..Refueling Mission and ground test-beds. </span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]