[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
sarah [dot] j [dot] evans81 [at] gmail [dot] com
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.3em; text-align: start;">Electric Freight Rail </span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Contention 1: The Status Quo]]<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 1: The Status Quo</span></span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Congress continues to neglect freight rail in favor of highways and states aren’t willing to foot the bill</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Shank 12**- CEO and president of Eno Center for Transportation</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-align: start;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">(Joshua, “The Federal Role in Transportation: Four Ideas for Greater Federal Involvement”, Eno Brief Newsletter, May 2012, [[http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">There is a tendency to...Freight Plan and Discretionary Grant</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Plan]]Plan</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The United States federal government should invest in a national electrified railroad infrastructure system.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Advantage 1: Economy]]Advantage 1: Economy</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">High unemployment makes recession inevitable now</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Alter ’12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> [Diane, Contributing Writer, Money Morning, "Are we headed straight for Recession 2013?" 6/2/12 moneymorning.com/2012/07/02/are-we-headed-straight-for-recession-2013/ 7/2/12 SJE]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Fresh reports pointing...but it's coming.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Freight rail system collapsing now without investment</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Hamberger, 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/File/Testimony/Rail/04-23-08-Hamberger.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">As the national surface transportation...capacity at high standard.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">This collapses every sector of the economy--- congestion means we can’t transport goods and services</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Hamberger, 08</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/File/Testimony/Rail/04-23-08-Hamberger.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Comprehensive, reliable and cost-effective...capacity our nation requires.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Prolonged recession causes loss of influence, power transitions, and great power war</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Royal 10** –</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Less intiuitive is how...increase in the use of force.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Collapse of vital sectors causes decline in US global leadership</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Prestowitz, 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> - Clyde </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px; text-align: start;">Prestowitz, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">founder and president of the Economic Strategy Institute. Prior to founding ESI, YaleGlobal, 13 April </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-align: start;">2012 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">“US Battle to Revive Manufacturing – Part II” [[http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/us-battle-revive-manufacturing-part-ii]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">In his State of the Union...driven to industrial policy.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">That results in global conflict, withdrawal of global power projection, and escalation of hotspots</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Friedberg and Schoenfeld, 8** - </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, The Dangers of a Diminished America, WSJ, 10/21</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Pressures to cut defense spending... with external adventures.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Freight rail investment generates massive job growth and revives manufacturing sector—provides a buffer against future economic shocks</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Econ**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**omic Policy Institute ‘10** - non-profit, non-partisan think tank, was created in 1986 to broaden discussions about economic policy to include the needs of low- and middle-income workers. Full Speed Ahead: Creating Green Jobs Through Freight Rail Expansion,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">[[http://www.buildingindiananews.com/BGA-Freight-Rail-Report-FINAL.pdf]], </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">The American economy is showing...grow the American rail network.</span>
=== === 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Advantage 2: Energy]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Advantage 2: Energy</span></span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Current US transportation is the main contributor to oil dependence and carbon emissions – new energy technology is needed</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Burbank, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> - National Planning and Environment Practice Leader at Parsons Brinckerhoff</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[Cynthia Burbank, Pew Center on Global Climate Change, “Saving Oil and Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions through U.S. Federal Transportation Policy,” February 2011, [[http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/Saving-Oil-and-Reducing-GHG-Emissions.pdf]] SJE]</span>
=== === 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Scenario 1: Warming]]Scenario 1: Warming</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Warming is real and human induced – consensus is on our side – numerous studies prove</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Rahmstorf 8** – Professor of Physics of the Oceans</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> at Potsdam University, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, Edited by Ernesto Zedillo, “Anthropogenic Climate Change?,” pg. 42-4</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">It is time to turn...with which we need to deal.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Now is the key time-slowing warming is key to avoid positive feedbacks</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Hanson, 08** James E. Hanson, Head, NASA Goddard Institute, Testimony before House Select Committee on Energy Independnece and Global Warming, 6/23/08, www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Fast feedbacks - changes that occur...all this will be wildlife.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Tipping points coming soon – risk extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Hamilton 10** – Professor of Public Ethics @ ANU, 2010, “Requiem for a Species: Why We Resist the</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> Truth About Climate Change,” pg. 1-2</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">One of the most striking...struggle just to survive.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Plan solves warming - curbs 75% of all carbon emissions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">AAR, 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> – Association of American Railroads, “Freight Railroads Help Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions,” July 2012,[[http://www.aar.org/~/media/aar/Background-Papers/Freight-RR-Help-Reduce-Emissions.ashx/]] SJE]</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Scenario 2: Oil Dependence]]Scenario 2: Oil Dependence</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Oil shocks are coming now - supply disruptions, peak oil, and speculation</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**McKillop ‘11** -</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> former in-house policy and programming expert, DG XVII Energy, European Commission Oil Crisis In 2012[[http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article32312.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">In fact, physical supply cuts...policies and pricing action.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">__Dependence makes war inevitable – 3 hotspots__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1. Iran – dependence means war and nuclear conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Glaser ‘11 - </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security Charles L. Glaser [[mailto:cglaser@gwu.edu|cglaser@gwu.edu]] Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University August 2011, epts.washington.edu/.../Glaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.doc</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Energy dependence could draw...attack against their nuclear forces.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">2. The Arctic Circle – entangling alliances and major power wars</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Zabarenko, 08** - [“Could Arctic Ice Melt Spawn A New Type of Cold War?” March 9th 2008 [[http://www.commondreams.org/archive/2008/03/09/7571]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">With oil above $100 a barrel...in a telephone interview.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Bostrom, 02** - (Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale. "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">A much greater existential risk...thwart humankind's potential permanently.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Scenario 2: Oil Dependence-3. East Asia – resource competition inevitable without the plan]]**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3. East Asia – resource competition inevitable without the plan</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Reynolds 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Lewis, energy consultant and author of “America the Prisoner: The Implications of Foreign Oil Addiction and a Realistic Plan to End It”, “Seven Dangerous Side Effects of the U.S. Dependency on Foreign Oil”, 8-8-10, [[http://peakoil.com/production/seven-dangerous-side-effects-of-the-u-s-dependency-on-foreign-oil/]])</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">It creates strained...substantial alternative energy sources.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Strait Times, 2000</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The high-intensity scenario...sovereignty above everything else.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Scenario 2: Oil Dependence-Electrified rail solves largest proximate cause of foreign oil dependence]]**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Electrified rail solves largest proximate cause of foreign oil dependence</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Drake, 08 -** Alan, consulting engineer, “Multiple Birds-One Silver BB: A synergistic set of solutions focused on Electrified Railroads, 7/15/08,[[http://www.theoildrum.com/node/4301]] Accessed: 6/26/12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Oil can be saved...added, but unspecified, bonus.</span>
=== === 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Contention 2: Solvency]]Contention 2: Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Federal investment for Electrified Rail solves the case - sparks renewables revolution that saves the economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Aki, 08** (Helen, breakthrough generation fellow accredidation from US Green Building Council, “Railroads: Fast, clean and ELECTRIC”, 7/16/2008[[http://thebreakthrough.org/blog/2008/07/railroads_fast_clean_and_elect.shtml]] Accessed: 7/1/12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">A federal initiative promoting...of which have been electrified.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Plan catalyzes energy and efficiency development in other sectors - solves alt causes</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Econ**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**omic Policy Institute ‘10** - non-profit, non-partisan think tank, was created in 1986 to broaden discussions about economic policy to include the needs of low- and middle-income workers. Full Speed Ahead: Creating Green Jobs Through Freight Rail Expansion,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">[[http://www.buildingindiananews.com/BGA-Freight-Rail-Report-FINAL.pdf]], </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">These projections factor current...congestion on our nation's roads.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Affirmative-Electric Freight Rail - BVW-Contention 2: Solvency-Electric freight rail systems are feasible, and more effective, powerful, and efficient that current diesel trains.]]**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Electric freight rail systems are feasible, and more effective, powerful, and efficient that current diesel trains.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Smith, 08** - The William and Barbara Leonard UTC CSUSB. “Electrification of the Freight Train Network from the Ports of los Angeles and Long Beach to the Inland Empire.” May 2008. California Department of Transportation. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Electric freight trains have...and accelerated wear of highways.</span>
=Negative= 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">hbjones [at] bluevalleyk12 [dot] net</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; text-align: start;">[[#Topicality]]Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Topicality--Increase]]**Increase**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Interpretation “Increase” means to become larger or greater in quantity</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Encarta, 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> – Encarta Online Dictionary. 2006. ("Increase" [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">increase...quantity or degree</span>

===Investment=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Investment” is disbursement of public funds</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Perez 10</span>** (Perez, Bustamonte, and Ponce (Law Firm), “Executive Summary of the Organic Code on Public Planning and Finance”, Legal Newsletter, 11-4, http://www.pbplaw.com/boletines/2010/20101104_boletinPBP_bl_en.pdf
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Investment is defined...wealth and capacities.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capital investment is not public-private projects</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Stifel Nicolaus Transportation & Logistics Conference 12** phx.corporate-ir.net/External.File?item...t=1 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capital investment totals... public-private reimbursable projects.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Topicality--Pipelines]]Pipelines</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">“Transportation infrastructure” is a core set of projects for movement of goods and services</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**DeLauro, 11** (U.S. Representative, Legislation to Create a National Infrastructure Development Bank, H.R. 402, 1-24,[[http://www2.apwa.net/|http://www2.apwa.net]]//Documents/Advocacy/HR%20402.pdf)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Transportation infrastructure project...freight rail systems.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Topicality--Pipelines-Pipelines are not “transportation infrastructure” --- they’re “energy”]]**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pipelines are not “transportation infrastructure” --- they’re “energy”</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Commerce, 10** (United States Chamb</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">er of Commerce, “Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report”, 9-23,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-align: start;">[[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">. pdf)</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Topicality--Subsets]]**Subsets**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">In means throughout</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Words and Phrases, 8** (Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “In,” Volume 20A, p. 205-215 March 2008, Thomson West)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Colo. 1887. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">"the word "in"....to mean throughout.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; text-align: start;">[[#Disadvantages]]Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Disadvantages--Elections]]Elections</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Obama will win now but it's close</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Blumenthal, 10-25</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> Mark Blumenthal, founding editor of pollster, 10-25, 12, Huffington Post, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/25/presidential-polls-romney-surge_n_2016066.html?utm_hp_ref=@pollster]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Polls released...continues to surge</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Unpredictable policies shift the voter base</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Seattle Times 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> "Not just the economy: Secondary issues may play role in election," 7/14,[[http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/nationworld/2018688463_electionissues15.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The election day outcome...neck and neck</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Tiny shifts in the base matter – link threshold is low</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Silver 12** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Nate, 5/15, chief pollster for New York Times’ 538 election polling center. Regarded as top-level pollster based on distinct mathematical models[[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/05/15/a-30000-foot-view-on-the-presidential-race/]].</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">when an election....odds at the margin</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">A Romney win means sanctions and strikes on Iran</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Trinko, 12** Katrina Trinko, 3-5-2012, “Romney: If Obama Reelected, ‘Iran Will Have a Nuclear Weapon’,”[[http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/292611/romney-if-obama-reelected-iran-will-have-nuclear-weapon-katrina-trinko]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Romney warned yesterday...put them in place</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Disadvantages--Elections-Extinction]]**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Russell ‘9** James A. Russell, managing editor of Strategic Insights, the quarterly ejournal published by the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School, Spring 2009, Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East, Security Studies Center</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Once the strikes...potential "armaggeddon" scenario.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; text-align: start;">[[#Counterplans]]Counterplans</span>== 
=== === 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Bacteria CP</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CP: The United States Federal Government should utilize genetically modified Blue-Green bacteria to develop petroleum fuels.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bacteria Fuel is pump ready, 50% more efficient, cheaper, and solves the environment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Svoboda, 08** [Elizabeth Svoboda, Fast Company Magazine, “Fueling the Future,” Feb 1, 2008, [[http://www.fastcompany.com/magazine/122/fueling-the-future.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Crude-oil prices have...on the environment.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Counterplans--CCS Regulations CP]]CCS Regulations CP</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">CP: The United States federal government should create a regulatory framework for CCS technology by providing design and operational requirements for pipeline, environmental and other approval of storage sites, monitoring, verification and remediation of such sites.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Counterplans--CCS Regulations CP-Regulatory certainty is key to CCS technology—without it infrastructure is useless]]**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Regulatory certainty is key to CCS technology—without it infrastructure is useless</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Tarr 11** – PhD Professor of Law, Queensland University of Technology</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Julie-Anne, 11/24/11, “Development and deployment challenges for low emissions coal technology: the IGCC with CCS case” J World Energy Law Bus (2011) 4 (4): 317-331.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">CCS needs regulatory....certainty is afforded.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Counterplans--Humanitarianism CP]]Humanitarianism CP</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">CP: The Department of Defense should substantially increase international humanitarian assistance and disaster relief through international military medical operations.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Counterplan stabilizes nations through health and security-- solves American soft power</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Axe, 09** [David Axe. 9.7.09. “Winning hearts, minds in Latin America” The Washington Times. [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2008/sep/07/soft-power-for-hard-problems/?page=2]]]</span>

===Legalize Prostitution CP=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CP: The United States Federal Government should legalize and regulate the prostitution industry.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solves violence on women and child prostitution</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Rogers, 12** – contributor to “the Independent,” “A Solution to Human Trafficking, Child Prostitution, and Drug Crimes,” 4/6/12, [[http://evangrogers.hubpages.com/hub/A-Solution-to-Human-Trafficking-Child-Prostitution-and-Drug-Crimes]] SJE]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The main problem...outlaw prostitution granted.</span>

===Naval Supremacy CP=== 
**CP: The United States Federal Government should increase the size of its navy to 313 ships and submarines.**

**CP is a prerequisite to naval supremacy**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Ayotte and Forbes, 10-31** [Sen. Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.) and Rep. J. Randy Forbes (R-Va.), “Naval supremacy requires a fleet of sufficient capability and size,” The Hill, 10/31/12, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/presidential-campaign/265143-naval-supremacy-requires-a-fleet-of-sufficient-capability-and-size]] SJE]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Today our fleet...national security interests.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Direct defense spending is massively popular</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Politics Daily, 10</span>** [“<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress on Military Spending Cuts: Not Now, Maybe Never”, 5/13, http://www.politicsdaily.com/2010/05/13/congress-on-military-spending-cuts-not-now-maybe-never/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One key problem...to say no.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Counterplans--P3 CP]]P3 CP</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">CP: The United States Federal Government should ___ in areas where a public-private partnership will guarantee at least one-half of the funding for a minimum of twenty years.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">P3 investment solves transportation better</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Glazier, June 7**, 2012 (Kyle Glazier- writer and editor of The Bond Buyer: REGIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3 Vol. 121 No. 33727,[[http://www.bondbuyer.com/issues/121_108/virginia-transportation-board-capital-projects-revenue-bonds-p3s-1040526-1.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Partnerships with the...than public financing.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">"Government" PIC</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CP: The United States Terrocrats should ____.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The power of the so called “government” is derived from violence – all of the worst atrocities throughout history have been committed by “governments,” the aff’s acceptance of the term legitimizes violence</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Mann 02** (Frederick, BA in communications from Stanford University, “Report #TL07B: The Nature of Government” version 4, January 2002, [[http://www.buildfreedom.com/tl/tl07b.shtml|www.buildfreedom.com/tl/tl07b.shtml]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Political power comes...but by governments</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">"Investment" PIC</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Counterplans--"Investment" PIC-CP: The United States federal government should spend on ____________.]]**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CP: The United States federal government should spend on ___.</span>**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">“Investment” is a euphemism used to lure the public into a false sense of fiscal responsibility</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Lowry '11** [Rich Lowry, editor of the National Review, syndicated columnist, 1/25/2011, "The 'Investment' Eupemism", pg. online @ www.nationalreview.com/articles/257831/investment-euphemism-rich-lowry# bprp]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">the word "investment"....controlling government "investment."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">This regime of sanitized language actively conceals the horror of war---the language of euphemism clinically detaches people from any sense of ethical responsibility</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Davidsson, 03</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> Elias Davidsson, Centre for Research on Globalization, 2003 (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-align: start;">[[http://www.aldeilis.net/jus/econsanc/debate.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">The utmost care...of human suffering.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; text-align: start;">[[#Kritiks]]Kritiks</span>== 
=== === 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Kritiks--Cap]]Cap</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">There is a specter haunting the politics of the 1AC: the specter of capitalism. Despite their proclamations of radical resistance, the affirmative is trading in the politics of interpassivity, where all their frenetic energy serves as an ideological screen to allow the logic of capital to remain unchallenged.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Zizek 02**—Professor of Philosophy @ Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana [Slavoj, “Revolution at the Gates”, pg 167-172]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">acceptance of the present....the global market.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Kritiks--Cap-Granting more access to the centers of capital and putting the racialized surplus labor in greater competition is the flip side of the global violence and militarism that is constitutive of modern capital. The affirmative ensures that both militarism at home and abroad remain the primary experience of the laboring classes.]]**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Granting more access to the centers of capital and putting the racialized surplus labor in greater competition is the flip side of the global violence and militarism that is constitutive of modern capital. The affirmative ensures that both militarism at home and abroad remain the primary experience of the laboring classes.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**McIntyre and Nast, 11** Michael McIntyre and Heidi J. Nast 2011 (Bio(necro)polis: Marx, Surplus Populations, and the Spatial Dialectics of Reproduction and “Race” Volume 43, Issue 5, pages 1465–1488, November 2011)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">One cannot understand...interests of others</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Our alternative is embracing a global anti-capitalist movement: instead of settling for the band-aid solutions of the affirmative and resolving the crises of capitalism, we must recognize that out of the misery of our current crisis, a genuine alternative can emerge.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">**Harvey, 10** David Harvey, Professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]] at the Graduate Center of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_University_of_New_York|City University of New York]], 2010 (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">The longer the uncertainty...and living arrangements.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Kritiks--Heidegger]]Heidegger</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The aff’s approach transportation infrastructure is grounded in a managerial ontology – their drive to maximize efficiency of transit reveals the earth as a mechanical system, concealing all other forms of relationality to the non-human environment and enframing it as human knowledge</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">McWhorter ‘92</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> Prof of Philosophy and Women, Gender & Sexuality studies @ Univ. of Richmond (Ladelle, “Guilt as Management Technology: A Call to Heideggerian Reflection” Heidegger and the Earth, pg. 5-7)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">a systematic arrangement...modes of being.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Our inability to perceive the essence of the world and instead replace it with the commodification constructed by a technological world view prevents us from authentically being in the world and leaves us in a state of ontological damnation resulting in complete nuclear annihilation</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Zimmerman, 94</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt; text-align: start;">(Michael E., Professor of Philosophy at Tulane University, Contesting Earth’s Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity, 119-20)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt; text-align: start;">Loss of t;his....of ontological damnation</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Alt- Do nothing to investigate what exists between action and inaction- Releasement exists beyond the distinction between action and inaction in which simply being resolved allows for an entirely novel revelation of Being outside of the domain of the will and its stranglehold on politics.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Zimmerman, 81</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> (Michael E. Zimmerman [prof of Philosophy @ Tulane U]; Eclipse of the Self: The Development of Heidegger’s Concept of Authenticity, pp. 245-248)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">An individual regards...aware of our openness.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Kritiks--Security]]Security</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"><span class="tagChar">The call to securitize against an external threat upholds the state and its population as sacred, manipulating international politics through the creation of subjective threats to be annihilated in the name of the sovereign </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Campbell,98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">. David, professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle. Writing Security, 1998. (199 – 202)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Security functions to...peace or war.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Security rhetoric furthers the perpetual threat of destruction and justifies unending, state-sanctioned violence.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**Coviello, 2k** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">(Peter Coviello, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Apocalypse From Now On,</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> 2000)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">apocalypse is ever...be done without.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">The Alt is to Reject the Affirmative's Security Logic, allowing for actually political thought. Accepting their Descriptions and Responses colonizes the debate</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**Neoclus, 08** (Mark Neocleous, 08, “Critique of Security”, Brunel University in the Department of Government)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: start;">The only way...affirming the state.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; text-align: start;">[[#Intel]]Intel</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Intel--Blue Valley West]]**Blue Valley West**</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Rd 2</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Unsafe Roads and Bridges</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: Heidegger K</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Rd 4</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Inland Waterways</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: Elections DA, Case</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Semifinals</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Electric Vehicles</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: Elections DA, Case</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Finals</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Port Security</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: Security K</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Intel--Wichita East]]**Wichita East**</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Rd 1</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: New Orleans</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: Elections DA, Case</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Rd 4</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Yukon Nuclear Waste Facility</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: Security K</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Semifinals</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Port Dredging</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: Heidegger K</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Intel--Caucus]]**Caucus**</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Rd 2</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Milliken Repeal</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: T</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Rd 4</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Icebreakers</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: "Investment" PIC</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Rd 6</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Mass Transit</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: "Investment" PIC</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Octas</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Inland Waterways</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: Elections DA</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Quarters</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC: Carbon Pipelines</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">2NR: Heidegger K</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Intel--Caucus]]**KCKCC**</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**Rd 1**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**1AC: Camus**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**2NR: Heidegger K**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**Rd 3**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**1AC: Active Transport**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**2NR: "Investment" PIC**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**Rd 5**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**1AC: Sex Trafficking Ports**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**2NR: "Government" PIC**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**Octas**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**1AC: Short Line Rail**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**2NR: T: Investment**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**Quarters**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**1AC: Carbon Pipelines**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**2NR: T: Pipelines**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**Sems**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**1AC: Port Dredging**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**2NR: Navy CP, Elections**</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]