[[toc]]
Email Alan "Swag Peck" Peck for aff cites - peck.alan1218[at]gmail[dot]com
Email Anja Beth for neg cites - anja.beth[at]gmail[dot]com

FYI-- I'm leaving the "Swag Peck" thing there, b/c Dustin created the wiki and he put it there. And he gives me good cards, so I'm leaving it. I'm not pretentious enough to actually call my self "swag peck." Also, please don't call me "swag peck." If the words "Swag" or maybe even "Peck" are sent in your cite request, it will be ignored. Oh, do not, I repeat, do not, under any circumstances, call me "Peckles." Only a few people have permission to call me that.

He's just kidding, he won't respond to cites unless it includes "Swag Peck" or "Swagga Peck" or if you're gutsy "Swaqqa Peck" in the email. If you want full text, the subject field must include "Swaggarific Citez"

Yeah, no, ignore the note just above this. As much as we all love DML's antics and sense of humor, any email containing "swag," or any of the names above while be marked as spam.

Also, required Trivia for cite requests, answer wisely-

1. Which are cuter: puppies or kittens?

2. How much wood, could a wood chuck chuck, if a wood chuck could chuck wood?

3. What was the answer to the question that won Cady Heron the mathlete state championship in the film, "Mean Girls?"

If you want full text, all this must be done, and must written in form of a Haiku. I will expect a picture of a bunny to be emailed in return.

=Affirmative= 

==Disabilities== 

===1AC-Grapevine=== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention One: Immobility</span>**
**Investment decisions for transportation infrastructure have systematically removed populations with disabilities from society by denying them of their mobility**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPD, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)</span>

**__Transportation and mobility play key roles in the struggle for civil rights and equal opportunity__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">on accessible taxis, a lack of requirements has meant very uneven progress.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">These seemingly innocuous investment decisions render persons with disabilities prisoner to a transportation infrastructure system that forces immobility upon them. Persons with disabilities are confined to their own space and the only way out is through a transportation system that was designed and is maintained without consideration of their perspective. This is not unintentional, rather, fixed-routes and times are regulated to allow society to exist free from contact with these individuals</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Langan, 2001</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Celeste, Associate Professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, “Mobility Disability”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)</span>

**__To think about mobility disability is to think about norms of speed and ranges of__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">than the ADA’s “individuals with wheelchairs”: the mass-transit dependent. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">How we think about those with disabilities is a litmus test for our conception of normalcy and otherness- the social construction of persons with disabilities legitimizes eugenic extermination</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bagenstos, 2000</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Samuel R., Law Professor at Harvard, 86 Va. L. Rev. 397, April)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Erving Goffman's notion of stigma is a useful tool here. Although "stigma" </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">people with disabilities </span>have <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">effectively </span>**__marked that group as a "dependent caste."__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The eugenic gaze cast by our relationship to disability culminates in the genocidal impulse – the institutional spaces of exclusion epitomized by transportation policies legitimize state-sponsored violence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes, 2002</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>dominant framework for understanding disability<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the modern period </span>has been<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>medical model
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>biological reductionism may<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at its worst </span>**__translate into a politics of genocide__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The medicalization of life and the biological degradation of certain segments of the species is the root cause of conflict – wars are fought and life is exterminated not because of particular geopolitical interests but because of the biopolitical commitment to eugenic violence</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Elden, 2002</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stuart, Professor of Politics at the University Warwick, Boundary 2, 29.2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">reverse side is the power to allow death. </span>State racism is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a </span>recoding
AND
**__men to be killed.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (VS, 180; WK, 136)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal policy is key in the context of disability</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cameron and Valentine, 2001 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, First Lord of the Treasury, Minister for the Civil Service and Leader of the Conservative Party, Fraser, Professor at Ryerson University, “Disability and Federalism: Comparing Different Approaches to Full Participation”, [[http://books.google.com/book%20s?hl=en&lr=&id=q5F8Oqks7oUC&oi=fnd&pg=PA%201&dq=Disability+and+Federalism:+Comparing+Different+Approaches+to+Full+Participation&ots=vhr2r60Sh2&sig=yknyDwNkcNyX66RQv7Zyl-ahnNQ#v=onepage&q&f=true|http://books.google.com/book s?hl=en&lr=&id=q5F8Oqks7oUC&oi=fnd&pg=PA 1&dq=Disability+and+Federalism:+Comparing+Different+Approaches+to+Full+Participation&ots=vhr2r60Sh2&sig=yknyDwNkcNyX66RQv7Zyl-ahnNQ#v=onepage&q&f=true]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>**__with respect to__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the </span>**__formulation of disability policy__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span>**__the federal__**
**__AND__**
**__system__** **__by which__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> community aspirations and </span>**__objectives in the disability field are mediated.__**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan- the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure accessibility investment. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention Two is Framing:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Our current understanding of disability within transportation policy makes it such that the perspective of persons with disabilities is always relegated to the periphery. Traditional assumptions about transportation blame individuals for their lack of accessibility and consider them ultimately responsible for their own mobility. Only repoliticizing transportation infrastructure can shift responsibility to the institutions that maintain exclusion and can open space to expose our complicity in ableist structure of knowledge. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Koch, 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tom, Adjunct Professor of Medical Ethics at the University of British Columbia, “Spaced Out in the City: the Wrinkled World of Transit for Those With Limited Mobility”, Disability Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28 No. 2, Spring, [[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/94/94]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Making my way slowly toward the geography building I wondered about the nature of impairments </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__be not simply a political ideal but a social goal in transit planning.__**

**A crisis focused ethic is wrong – attention to isolated instances of warfare ignores the daily horrors of militarist exceptionalism. This is the precondition for any war to happen**
**Cuomo 1996**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Philosophy, University of Cincinnati (Chris, Hypatia Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Issue 3, pg 30)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin Schott introduces some of the ways </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">the face of what appears to be the inevitability of war</span>__ __and militarism.__

**Structural harms outweigh all other considerations.**
**Abu-Jamal 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">We live</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">in a nation </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">away, so that their great and terrible violence passes away with them.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">As students participating in policy debates we have an obligation to put disability at the center of our discussion because what we debate about here says a lot about human conduct on a larger scale – that is not a metatheoretical quibble but central to change the way that disability is represented and conceived </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Bérubé, 2003</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring, http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is striking, nonetheless, that so few leftists have understood disability in these </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, which is to say, for the good of all of us.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Here are examples of transportation infrastructure investments that the plan could solve</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Carpenter et al, 2006</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Matt, Senior Planner with the Sacramento Area Council of Governments, “Senior and Disabled Mobility Study”, Sacramento Area Council of Governments, October 23) </span>

**__Implement__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> local Pedestrian Master Plans and pedestrian </span>**__access improvements in the planning, design,__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">street and freeway noise. -</span>**__Insure good__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">bus stop</span>** **__design and access.__**

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1AC-Valley</span>=== 

So this 1AC isn't that different. It's the same plan text, and most of the same cards. Except I changed the fed key card, I took Abu-Jamal and Cuomo, and replaced it with Aradau and Van Mauser. I added the two pieces of Evans evidence. I took out Bagenstos. And I took out Carpenter. Also, it's now just one contention, because it always ends up just being one flow anyway.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Plan- the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure accessibility investment. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Contention One: Immobility</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Investment decisions for transportation infrastructure have systematically removed persons with disabilities from society by denyting them of their mobility</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">AAPD, 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Transportation and mobility play key roles </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">has meant very uneven progress.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">These seemingly innocuous investment decisions render persons with disabilities prisoner to a transportation infrastructure system that forces immobility upon them. Persons with disabilities are confined to their own space and the only way out is through a transportation system that was designed and is maintained without consideration of their perspective. This is not unintentional, rather, fixed-routes and times are regulated to allow society to exist free from contact with these individuals</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Langan, 2001</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Celeste, Associate Professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, “Mobility Disability”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To think about mobility disability is to think</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">ADA’s “individuals with wheelchairs”: the mass-transit dependent. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The eugenic gaze cast by our relationship to disability culminates in the genocidal impulse – the institutional spaces of exclusion epitomized by transportation policies legitimize state-sponsored violence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes, 2002</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">dominant framework for understanding disability</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">in the modern </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">reductionism may</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> at its worst </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">translate into a politics of genocide</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The medicalization of life and the biological degradation of certain segments of the species is the root cause of conflict – wars are fought and life is exterminated not because of particular geopolitical interests but because of the biopolitical commitment to eugenic violence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Elden, 2002</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stuart, Professor of Politics at the University Warwick, Boundary 2, 29.2)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">reverse side is the power to allow death. State racism is a</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> many wars, causing so many men to be killed.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (VS, 180; WK, 136)</span>

**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Biopolitics is the root cause of racism, genocide, and all forms of violence</span>**
**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Evans 10 </span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">(Brad Evans is Lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds and Programme Director for International Relations, “Foucault’s Legacy: Security, War, and Violence in the 21</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">st</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> Century,” Security Dialogue August 23, 2010 vol. 41 no. 4 413-433, dml)</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Having established that the principal task set for biopolitical</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">violence of contemporary liberal occupations </span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">is removed from the analytical arena.</span>


**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The affirmative is a recognition of difference - this allows us to shut down the impetus for total war</span>**
**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Evans 10 –</span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;"> Lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds and Programme Director for International Relations</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">(Brad, “Life Resistance: Towards a Different Concept of the Political,” Deleuze Studies Volume 4: 2010 supplement: 142–16, dml)</span>
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">When power takes life to be its object, resistance to power</span>__
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">universe is homogenised, power struggles become a matter of pure strategy.</span>__


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Federal action key – devolving authority is an act of dismissing responsibility – this form of politics leads to serial policy failure</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Fine& Hall 10 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">- Prof of Economics U of London & Director of the Public Services International Research Unit – U of Greenwich(Ben & Contesting Neoliberalism: Public Sector Alternatives for Service Delivery Working Paper for the Milan European Economy Workshops 2010 http://www.economia.unimi.it/uploads/wp/DEAS-2010_27wp.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Other areas of policymaking, as with industrial and regional policy, </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">collaboration between companies, donors and development banks over privatisations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Our current understanding of disability within transportation policy makes it such that the perspective of persons with disabilities is always relegated to the periphery. Traditional assumptions about transportation blame individuals for their lack of accessibility and consider them ultimately responsible for their own mobility. Only repoliticizing transportation infrastructure can shift responsibility to the institutions that maintain exclusion and can open space to expose our complicity in ableist structure of knowledge. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Koch, 2008</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Tom, Adjunct Professor of Medical Ethics at the University of British Columbia, “Spaced Out in the City: the Wrinkled World of Transit for Those With Limited Mobility”, Disability Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28 No. 2, Spring, [[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/94/94]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Making my way slowly toward the geography building I wondered </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">equal access to all will be not simply a political ideal but a social goal in transit planning.</span>__**


**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Risk assessment operates from a model of control – that which is unknown may be a threat and must be eliminated – this drive culminates in an endless state of war and control</span>**
**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Aradau and Van Munster 5 - </span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Southern Denmark</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Claudia and Rens, “Governing Terrorism and the (Non-) Politics of Risk,” Political Science Publications No. 11, pg 14-18, dml)</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">IV Taking precautions against terrorism and the (non-)politics of risk </span>
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">politics continually haunts the attempt at governing and reclaims decision, struggle and contingency.</span>__


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">As students participating in policy debates we have an obligation to put disability at the center of our discussion because what we debate about here says a lot about human conduct on a larger scale – that is not a metatheoretical quibble but central to change the way that disability is represented and conceived </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Bérubé, 2003</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring, http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">It is striking, nonetheless, that so few leftists have understood disability in these terms. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> their own good, and for the good of democracy, which is to say, for the good of all of us.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1AC-Sections</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Investment decisions for transportation infrastructure have systematically removed persons with disabilities from society by denying them of their mobility</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AAPD, 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23,</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Transportation and mobility play key roles in the struggle for </span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, a lack of requirements has meant very uneven progress.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">These seemingly innocuous investment decisions render persons with disabilities prisoner to a transportation infrastructure system that forces immobility upon them. Persons with disabilities are confined to their own space and the only way out is through a transportation system that was designed and is maintained without consideration of their perspective. This is not unintentional, rather, fixed-routes and times are regulated to allow society to exist free from contact with these individuals</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Langan, 2001</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Celeste, Associate Professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, “Mobility Disability”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To think about mobility disability is to think about norms of speed and ranges</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">And thus Speed, in its peculiar way, introduces an even newer category of political subject than the ADA’s “individuals with wheelchairs”: the mass-transit dependent. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">We discriminate against persons with disabilities, labeling them as less than human, status quo decisions isolate them society by labeling them as an “inferior other.”</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">IDHRN 07</span>**<span style="color: #3f3f3f; font-family: Georgia;">(International Disability and Human Rights Network, “Are Disabled People Human?,” Published in 2007 at the earliest</span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #3f3f3f; font-family: Georgia;">[[http://www.daa.org.uk/uploads/pdf/Genetics,%20Ethics%20and%20Disability.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #3f3f3f; font-family: Georgia;">, ADP)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">One of our characteristics is the ability to discriminate and to make value judgements</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">non-custodial sentences. These stories are just the tip of the iceberg. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Exclusion of the disabled body is emblematic of a refusal of our ultimate finitude as human beings – the plan is critical to an ethic of vulnerability that recognizes the sovereignty and value of all forms of life</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">McArdle 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">(Patrick, Head of schools of theology, assistant professor of health care ethics, at Australian Catholic University, PhD in practical theology, masters in Moral Theology and Education, “Disability and Relationality: disrupting complacency entering into vulnerability,”//Australian eJournal of Theology//, December, 2010,</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://aejt.com.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0013/301045/6.AEJT10.23_McArdle_DisabilityandRelationality_Formatted.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">, ADP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Here we face the question: would not a more relational anthropology of human</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">different to what they hear in the media and even in school or at university.31</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The logic of control exemplified by the destruction of Otherness can only culminate in planetary extinction through mechanization – we must acknowledge our ultimate finitude.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Joronen 11 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">coordinator of the Geography graduate school at the University of Turku</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Mikko, “Dwelling in the Sites of Finitude: Resisting the Violence of the Metaphysical Globe”, Antipode Volume 43, Issue 4, pages 1127–1154, September 2011) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">Perhaps one of the most striking examples of the need for non-violent resistance and power-free following of the abyssal earth </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">and domination of nature, capable of calling the living earth a home. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Placing the perfectly abled as first priority devalues the existence of the Other – the impact is endless nihilism and genocide</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Introna 9 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">(Lucas, “Ethics and the Speaking of Things,” </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Theory, Culture & Society</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;"> 2009 vol 26 no 4, 25-46, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">In the ethics of hybrids </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">our ethical relationship with things is determined </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">might provide us with some hints towards the overcoming of ethics, towards an ethos of letting-be of all beings.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The aff is the recognition of alterity which allows to rethink disabilitity as more than the empathetic identification the status quo imposes, authorizing violence and totalitarianism. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Schormans 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">(Beverley Ann Fudge, Assistant Professor of Social Sciences at McMaster University, Ph.D., Factor-Inwentash Faculty of Social Work, University of Toronto, M.S.W., McMaster University, B.S.W., York University, B.A. (Psych), McMaster University, B.P.E., McMaster University “The Right or Responsibility of Inspection: Social Work, Photography, and People with Intellectual Disabilities,” //University of Toronto//, 2011, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">[[https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/29725/1/FudgeSchormans_BeverleyAnn_201106_PhD_thesis.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">, ADP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Emmanuel Levinas</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">‟</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> work on the ethical responsibility to the Other,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">to re-think disability as devalued difference, to re-think that which we think we know. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Thus, we advocate that the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure accessibility investment.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Federal action key – devolving authority is an act of dismissing responsibility – this form of politics leads to serial policy failure</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">**Fine& Hall 10** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">- Prof of Economics U of London & Director of the Public Services International Research Unit – U of Greenwich(Ben & Contesting Neoliberalism: Public Sector Alternatives for Service Delivery Working Paper for the Milan European Economy Workshops 2010</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.economia.unimi.it/uploads/wp/DEAS-2010_27wp.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Other areas of policymaking, as with industrial and regional policy</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">most obviously in the collaboration between companies, donors and development banks over privatisations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Our obligation is to make the state ethical – the state is inevitability and the alternative to state ethics is the destruction of the other</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Simmons 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">’, 70 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Levinas insists that</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The victimization of disability is justified by a moral calculus that privileges catastrophic discourses. Confronting our understanding of disability must be situated at the forefront of ethical deliberation.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Clapton 2003</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">[Jayne Clapton. Centre for Work, Leisure and Community Research at Griffith University. October 2003. “Tragedy and catastrophe: contentious discourses of ethics and disability”. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research 47:7. Pages 542-544//fitz.//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Within the conjunction of disability as personal tragedy and bioethics as medical </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Legal jurisdictions of the notions of ‘wrongful life’ and ‘wrongful birth’ (Ossorio 2000) are also embedded in such a moral views.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Humanity is a tiny speck in the history of a universe that will inevitably die – in the face of uncontrollable catastrophe and cosmic flux, ethics must enter first in your decision calculus</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Clark 10 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Senior Lecturer in Geography at Open University</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Nigel, “Ex-Orbitant Generosity: Gifts of Love in a Cold Cosmos”, Parallax, Vol. 16, No. 1, Pg. 80-95, dml)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">Harman has no qualms about positing nonhuman objects that attract and repel each other. 50 He conceives of </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">vacillate between turning toward and turning away has a defining quality. If not us, then who?</span>//

//**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Their framework limits out alterity – engaging the unknown is the precondition to ethical politics and should be first priority</span>**//
//**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Jones 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Rachel, University of Dundee, “On the Value of Not Knowing: Wonder, Beginning Again and Letting Be,” As presented at ‘On Not Knowing’, a Symposium hosted by Kettle’s Yard and New Hall College, Cambridge, 29th June 2009, to accompany the exhibition ‘Material Intelligence’, Kettle’s Yard, 16 May – 12 July 2009)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">Thus described, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">wonder is the passion that can accompany not knowing</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">, </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">the possibility of recommencing, of thinking again and beginning anew</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">We end with the story of Harry Ramos, who demonstrates that we have an obligation to reach out to the Other even with our world crashing down around us.</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Jovanovic and Wood 4 – *</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Communications/Rhetoric Professors @ Denver University and University of North Carolina respectively [all highlighting is read; blue denotes the performative aspect of the speech act]</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Spoma and Roy, “Speaking from the Bedrock of Ethics,” Philosophy and Rhetoric Vol 37 no 4, 2004, 317-334, dml)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">On September 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">, 2001, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">terrorism touched down</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;"> in the United States. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">While millions</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">It is </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">no longer "we" but "I"</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> who will be </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">with </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">the man who is not going anywhere in the heart of an inferno.</span>//



===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"><span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC- Cap K</span></span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Case is a prerequisite to the K- ableism makes classism and other oppression inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Siebers 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;"> - (Disability Aesthetics” Tom Siebers 2010)bs</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Oppression is the systematic victimization of one group by another</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">__the final frontier of justifiable human inferiority__</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Plan breaks down the system</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Mitchell AND</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Snyder, ’10</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;"> -PhD Michigan and executive director of the Institute on Disabilities, AND Assistant Professor of Disability and Human Development at the University of Illinois, Chicago (David T. and Sharon L “Disability as Multitude Re-working Non-Productive Labor Power” Temple University and Independent Scholar, Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies 4.2 (2010), 179-194)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">It may seem strange to cite disability movements in the context of a</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">are also the expression of living labor. ("Kairos," 225)</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Representations of capitalism as hegemonically dominant preclude the realization of actual social change. Changing this view is a pre-requisite to the alt</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Gibson-Graham 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;"> – J.K., pen name shared by feminist economic geographers Julie Graham and Katherine Gibson (“The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It): A Feminist Critique of Political Economy”, pg 2-5)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">The End of Capitalism (As</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">A long shot perhaps but one worth pursuing.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"><span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC- DNG</span></span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">We can rewrite the physical space through demanding inclusion for disability.</span>**

**//Quinlan and Bates 2012//** <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Margaret M. Assistant Professor of Communication and a Core Faculty Member of the Health Psychology Ph.D. Program at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.; Benjamin R, Associate Professor Associate Director for Graduate Studies School of Communication Studies Ohio University "Walking In The City": Performance Of Strategies And Tactics In The 1985 Bus Accessibility Protests Disability Studies Quarterly Vol 32, No 1 (2012))</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the temporary concordance of strategies and tactics</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">to expand the tablet upon which their bodies can write.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Their radical affirmation of lines of flight and smooth space will inevitably restratify itself into exactly what it fought and will lead to unimaginable violence</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Diken in ‘1</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Bülent Diken, lecturer in Sociology at Lancaster University, and Carsten Bagge Laustsen, Ph.D. student at the University of Copenhagen, Department of Political Sciences, September 2001, online: </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/sociology/papers/Diken-Laustsen-Enjoy-Your-Fight.pdf]]</span></span>



__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Fight Club is constructed along a line of flight in the Deleuzian</span>__

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">when fight club starts and when fight club ends” (Palahniuk 1997: 48).</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"><span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC- States CP</span></span>=== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Federal government is key to transportation infrastructure accessibility</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">ECMT, 2000 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(The European Conference of Ministers of Transport, “Improving Transport for People with Mobility Handicaps,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.internationaltransportforum.org/Pub/pdf/99TPHguideE.pdf]]</span>)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Both central and local government should have responsibilities</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">sensible that wherever they are provided they should be of the same design.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Their counterplan is based on an overly rational bureaucracy that enables mass violence against disabled populations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes, 2002</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Bill, Glasgow Caledonian University, School of Social Science, Bauman's Strangers, Disability & Society, Vol. 17 No. 5, p. 571-584, EBSCO)</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Bureaucracy is ultra-rational, driven to</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">recalcitrance to … violent “utopian” solutions</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">’</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Their approach objectifies persons with disabilities– subjecting plan to outside decision is the ultimate gaze – functions as oversight</span>**
**<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes</span>__</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, </span>__<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">1999</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Department of Social Sciences, Glasgow Caledonian University, “The Constitution of Impairment: Modernity and the Aesthetic of Oppression”, Disability & Society, Vol. 14 No. 2, p. 155-172, EBSCO)</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">To look at, is to command a visual field, to oversee a `</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Yet, in the same moment, the possibility of resistance is evident.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"><span style="font-size: 1.1em;">2AC- Politics (Generic)</span></span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The political process is rigged to exclude persons with disabilities– to make your decision based upon political capital and bargaining is to render your decision complicit in the systematic exclusion of the disabled – the impact is our case</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Orentlicher, 1996</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(David, Professor of Law at Indiana University, 31 Harv. C.R.-C.L.L. Rev. 49, Winter)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">A more expansive interpretation of the ADA</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">effects of socio-political forces on disability.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Public support for helping those with disabilities</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Diament, 2010</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Michelle, Co-founder of DisabilityScoop.com – a leading news source for disability issues, “Poll Shows Public Support For Community Living”, April 28, http://www.disabilityscoop.com/2010/04/28/poll-community-living-act/7854/)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">A Harris </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Interactive poll released Wednesday</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">to ensure that the civil rights of individuals in all states are met.</span>




**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Political capital isn’t real and their approach breeds violence</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ruby-Sachs 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Emma Ruby-SachsLawyer Posted: November 24, 2008, J.D. from the University of Toronto and practices civil litigation with Sutts Strosberg LLP, Ranking the Issues: Gay Rights in an Economic Crisis, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/emma-rubysachs/ranking-the-issues-gay-ri_b_146023.html]]</span></span>



__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The classic approach to politics is to rank priorities</span>__

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">AND</span>__

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">and social liberals in a time when consensus is essential.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Freight-Rail</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1AC-State Round 4</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">First, the impacts – </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The threat of cyber-attack is real – multiple countries and terrorists are acquiring capabilities</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Habiger 10</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Eugue, Retired Air Force General, Cyberwarfare and Cyberterrorism, The Cyber Security Institute, 2/1, p. 11-19)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">However, there are reasons to believe that what is going on now amounts </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">deterrence</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math';">‐</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">based defenses, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">making us significantly more at risk of a major war.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US will lash out with nukes – most likely scenario for World War III</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Lawson</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">,Professor of Communication at Utah,</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict, 5/13, http://www.seanlawson.net/?p=477)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">At a time when it seems impossible to avoid the seemingly </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">is regarded with the same or greater seriousness.” [7] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Miscalc means escalation is extremely likely and quick </span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Clarke 9</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Richard, Special adviser to the president for cyber security in the George W. Bush administration, Now chairman of Good Harbor Consulting, //War from Cyberspace//, The National Interest, December 22, http://nationalinterest.org/article/war-from-cyberspace-3278) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AS IN the 1960s, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">the speed of war is rapidly</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">the nation attacked might</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> well </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">respond with</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> "</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">kinetic activity</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">." </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Food prices are high and rising – that will cause instability and World War 3 by 2014 – historical trends prove</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Droke 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">—editor of the three times weekly Momentum Strategies Report; frequently covers the current status of the economy (3/14/2012, Clif, “Rising fuel costs and the next Revolution,” http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article33595.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">economic and political importance of high f</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">exists and the U.S. could experience another transformationand our life style as we know it today.”</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Increased food prices will kill 95% of the world</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Adams 8</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">staff writer for naturalnews.com (April 23, “The Biofuels Scam, Food Shortages and the Coming Collapse of the Human Population”, http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">So, to repeat, the food bubble is now starting to implode. What does </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">s just one crop season away from mass starvation.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Air pollution causes extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Driesen 03</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">David, Associate Professor – Syracuse Univeristy Law, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, Fall/Spring, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">Air pollution can make life unsustainable by </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">the environment, air quality implicates both of these concerns.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;"> 5</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Advantage 1 is terrorism</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Rail systems uniquely vulnerable to cyberattacks now – more investment is key</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Rashid 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> – Fahmida Y. Rashid, “SCADA Systems in Railways Vulnerable to Attack,” EWEEK, 1-25-12. http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Security/SCADA-Systems-in-Railways-Vulnerable-to-Attack-124045/. LAP</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">Reports of a possible cyber-attack against a rail </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">being on the Net is all but inescapable," Michener said.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Three scenarios</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">National Research Council 2003</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> – “ CYBERSECURITY OF FREIGHT INFORMATION SYSTEMS,” TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD SPECIAL REPORT 274, http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr274.pdf. LAP</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">Cyberattacks on transportation</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> and logistics </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">networks </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">it is impossible to deﬁne the threat exactly or quantify it. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Advantage 2 is ethanol</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Ethanol production down—most recent data—and it will continue decreasing </span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Ghosh 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> – Shameek Ghosh, 10/18/12 US ethanol production in Sep drops to lowest recorded level: EPA, http://www.platts.com/RSSFeedDetailedNews/RSSFeed/Petrochemicals/6704615</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">US ethanol production in September plunged 102.2 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">February, when it was at 116.9 million gallons. </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Biofuels solve food prices </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Bruce </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Dale</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">, Professor, Chemical Engineering, Michigan State, “Grassoline in Your Tank, Myths and Realities About Biofuels,” 12—18—</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.everythingbiomass.org/Publications/tabid/443/Default.aspx]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">Ethanol production is said to raise food prices. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">merits serious and sustained research and policy attention.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And, plan solves a shift toward trucks</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commision, 2007</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;"> (Final Report – Volume III: Section 1 – Technical Issues Papers, “Analysis of Future Issues and Changing Demands on the System”, March 13, http://transportationfortomorrow.com/final_report/volume_3_html/technical_issues_papers/paper3e44.htm?name=4l_07)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">In 2003, the AASHTO Freight-Rail Bottom Line </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">tax credits, and other forms of </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">public-sector participation.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">That means more pollution </span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AAR 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> – “The Economic Impact of America’s Freight Railroads,” AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF RAILROADS, June 2012, https://www.aar.org/keyissues/Documents/Background-Papers/The-Economic-Impact-of-Freight.pdf. LAP</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Fuel efficiency – On average, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">railroads are </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">that will cut rail emissions by up to 90 percent.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Next, Solvency </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Lack of funding will crush the rail industry now</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Dovell 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> – Elizabeth Dovell, “U.S. Rail Infrastructure,” CFR, 3-7-12. http://www.cfr.org/united-states/us-rail-infrastructure/p27585?cid=rss-backgrounders-u.s._rail_infrastructure-030712#p1. LAP </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">Rail is an essential component of a balanced </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">avoid congestion</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">, particularly if plans for expanding passenger rail proceed.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Freight rail key to growth of ethanol industry</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Department of Agriculture 11</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(“Railroads help keep U.S. farmers competitive in the global marketplace”, released through Freight Rail Works Association, 2011, http://freightrailworks.org/frw-all-print.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">U.S. freight railroads are a critical component </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">mode of </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">freight transportation rises with it.</span>

**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Rail is a key part of transportation policy – plan causes a modal shift toward infrastructural sustainability</span>**
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Bergendorff 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> – senior consultant Macroplan Consulting specializing in technology, sustainability and innovation primarily with railway transportation (Mads, “Railways Report”, International Union of Railways, http://www.unep.fr/scp/csd/wssd/contributions/sector_reports/sectors/railways/railways_sum.htm)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">What is needed from the rail sector is to build on its social </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">ready to shoulder their responsibilities in full co-operation with their stakeholders.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan solves security</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Capra ‘6</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Gregory S. Capra, Gregory S. Capra serves as the Chief of the Program Management Office, Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence, Andrews AFB, Maryland. He earned a bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering from the University of Colorado and a master’s degree in Strategic Studies from the Air War College at Maxwell AFB, Alabama. He is licensed as a Professional Engineer in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Since entering Federal Civilian Service in 1987, he has supported the men and women of the United States Army and Air Force by serving in various positions at the installation, major command, and headquarters. Prior to attending Air War College in 2006, he served as a Base Closure and Realignment Analyst for the Office of the Air Force Civil Engineer, Headquarters Air Force, Washington, DC, “Protecting Critical Rail Infrastructure”, http://cpc.au.af.mil/PDF/monograph/criticalrailinfrastructure.pdf, December 2006)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">First</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, the U.S. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">Government must invest in automated </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">military installations; they need to be vigilant and provide security to their cr</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">itical assets. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan: The United States federal government should increase its investment in freight rail infrastructure security. </span>

=== === 


=Negative= 
== == 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Kritiks</span>== 


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Breila K</span>=== 


<span style="color: black;">Their securitized representations justify biopolitical control and genocide</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Coviello 2K</span>__**—Peter, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that American culture </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.</span>



<span style="color: black;">Their framework of control creates a hatred for life</span>

James **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Der Derian</span>__**, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks


<span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">Nietzsche</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's interpretations of security </span>**

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">this expresses a straitened soul, full of mistrust and evil experiences."</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 39</span>**



<span style="color: black;">The alternative is to vote negative – rejecting their representations is key to emancipatory politics</span>

Mark **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous</span>__**, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ ‘**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__** [Critique of Security, 185-6]


<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift."' </span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Introna K</span>=== 

**The affirmative frames existence in terms of human value – this ethic creates the world as standing reserve and legitimizes endless genocide – the only way to escape this cycle is to vote negative to affirm the infinite value of all forms of Being**
**Introna 9 –** Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Lucas, “Ethics and the Speaking of Things,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Theory, Culture & Society</span>//<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> 2009 vol 26 no 4, 25-46, dml)</span>

In the ethics of hybrids <span style="text-decoration: none;">our ethical relationship with things is </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">AND</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">of ethics, towards an ethos of letting-be of all beings.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Counterplans</span>== 


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Minimum Wage CP</span>=== 


**Text: The United States Federal Government should raise the federal minimum wage to $9.50 an hour.**


**Raising minimum wage would solve poverty- direct correlation and stimulates economy**

**Mainstreet 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.mainstreet.com/article/career/why-minimum-wage-hike-will-help-economy]], 10/21/2012)</span>

Jobs, jobs, jobs: If there’s been one theme of the 2012 election, it’s been

AND

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">that doing so has the power to help the economy in these uncertain times.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">NEPA CP</span>=== 


**Text: The Department of Transportation should submit a proposal for <<plan>> a National Environmental Policy Act Environmental Impact Statement. The United States federal government should implement the least environmentally damaging alternative identified in the Environmental Impact Statement.**



**The counterplan is not topical and plan-minus**



**It severs should**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Summers 94</span> (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">¶4 The legal question to be resolved by the court is whether the word "should"</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">would become effective in </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">the future</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> [in futurol</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, 106 U.S. 360, 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).</span>



**It severs substantial**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases 1925</span>

Judicial and statutory definitions of words and phrases, Volume 7, p. 6738

<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">The words</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> “outward, open, actual, visible, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">substantial</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">, </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">undivided; sole; opposed to inclusive. Bass v. Pease, 79 Ill. App. 308, 318.</span>





**The counterplan solves – the process of evaluating environmentally friendly alternatives prior to action leads to a compromise that solves the aff and avoids environmental harm**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dreher 5</span> – Deputy Executive Director of the Georgetown Environmental Law & Policy Institute. He served as Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, (Robert, “The Political Assault on the National Environmental Policy Act,” http://www.law.georgetown.edu/gelpi/research_archive/nepa/NEPAUnderSiegeFinal.pdf)

Yet <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">a</span>nother <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">criticism of</span> the <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">NEPA</span> review process <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">is that it impedes the </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">in avoiding appeals that plague controversial timber sales</span>.” 56



**The plan devastates disadvantaged communities, the counterplan avoids harm**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson 97</span> – Professor of Law @ Mercer, (Stephen, “NEPA and SEPA's in the Quest for Environmental Justice,” Digital Commons @ LMU, Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review, Hein Online)

In many cases <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">minority and low-income communities are </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">disparately impacting minority or lowincome communities</span>. 38



**This impact should be preferred – be skeptical of the affirmative’s advantage because they ignore environmental externalities that devastate minority communities**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard and Johnson 2k</span> - *PhD in Environmental Sociology, Professor of Public Affairs, **Professor of Sociology @ Clark (Robert and Glenn, Environmental Justice: Grassroots Activism and its Impact on Public Policy Decision Making, Journal of Social Issues, http://www.unc.edu/courses/2005spring/epid/278/001/Bullard2000JSocIssues.pdf)

The <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">environmental protection</span> apparatus <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">in the United States </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">a "</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">sacrifice zone</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">" or dumping grounds</span>. They are also pressing governments to live up to their mandate of protecting public health and the environment.


==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Disads</span>== 


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">VAWA DA</span>=== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">New VAWA will pass- Republicans changing opinion- our ev cites momentum- key Cantor is willing to compromise but agreement is key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bassett and Bendery 1/2 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Laura and Jennifer, “House GOP Lets Violence Against Women Act Passed By Senate Die Without A Vote”, Huffington Post Politics, 1/2/13, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/02/violence-against-women-act-_n_2398553.html)</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Despite a late-stage intervention</span> by Vice President Joe Biden

AND

Senate bill.¶ "Majority Leader <span style="text-decoration: none;">Cantor worked hard seeking to move the bill forward</span> so we can protect victims and prosecute offenders," said Cantor spokesman Doug Heye.



**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Cantor only wants transportation cuts- part of overall cut program</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coy 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brian, “Cantor and Boehner’s Transportation Cuts Expose Danger in McDonnell's GARVEE Scheme”, Democratic Party of Virginia, 1/5/11, http://www.vademocrats.org/news/press/cantor-and-boehner%E2%80%99s-transportation-cuts-expose-danger-mcdonnells-garvee-scheme)</span>

Richmond, VA – <span style="text-decoration: none;">The incoming Republican </span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">AND</span>

anticipated transportation revenue for states like Virginia:



**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">VAWA key to stopping domestic violence and creating immigration paths</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alanen 11/17 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Julie, “Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization: Congress Must Display Bipartisanship”, PolicyMic, 11/17/12, http://www.policymic.com/articles/19176/violence-against-women-act-reauthorization-congress-must-display-bipartisanship)</span>

It is a troubling sign of the times that our policymakers are deadlocked over

AND

<span style="text-decoration: none;">federal, state, local and tribal responses to these devastating crimes.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">We have a moral obligation to reject domestic violence – it’s a type of sexual violence that’s in the spirit of murder and destroys value to life. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Wing 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">.(PROF LAW U IOWA, CONCEPTUALIZING VIOLENCE, 60 ALB. L. REV. 943)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">The multiple effect of violence on</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">these</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">women</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">, </span>**

<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">a way of life or of an entire culture</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">." </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">42</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">and misery of others</span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">. </span>**</span>



==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Intel</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Grapevine</span>=== 

__Round 1: Reagan PZ (New Orleans- Racism/Speed)__

<3 Bobby

1NC:T-Vehicles
Framework (2NR)
NEPA CP
Elections DA
Schmitt K
Case

__Round 4: Kinkaid YB (JARC)__

1NC: T-Vehicles (they defend buses)
NEPA CP
Elections DA
Cap K (2NR)
Case

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Valley</span>=== 

__Round 1: UC Lab DL: (Space Launch Sites- Heg/Colonization)__

1NC: T-not space
Elections (Obama good)
Russia CP (2NR)
Breila K
Case
Space Col Bad
Heg Bad (2NR)

__Round 3: CR Wash LB:(Dam Removal-BioD/Natives)__

1NC: T-Maintenence
Elections (Obama Good) (2NR)
States CP (2NR)
Give Back the Land K
Case (2NR)


__Round 6:GBN RW: (NIB- Econ/Banking)__

Can't find my flow from this round, but the 2AR ended up being condo bad anyways.

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">U of Minnesota</span>=== 

__Round 2: Wayzata GK (Mass Transit- Racism/Warming)__

1NC: States CP
Light-Rail PIC
Elections DA (Obama Good) (2NR)
Introna K
Case (2NR)
Warming Good (2NR)

__Round 4: Highland Park TS (Critical Bikes)__

1NC: T-Substantial (yeah, I know, sorry)
Framework
Elections DA (Obama Good)
Introna K
Case
Automobility Good (2NR)

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">U of Michigan</span>=== 

__Round 2: St. Vincent De Paul KY (Critical Bering Strait-Russia/Imagination)__

1NC: Framework
State PIC
Nietzsche K
Cap K
Case

Ableism (2NR) (They said a naughty word in the 2AC, come on David)

__Round 4: Holt EG (Critical Bering Strait-Russia)__

1NC: Framework
T-T/I
State PIC (2NR)
Sci-fi DA
Cap K
Case

__Round 6: Niles North EO (Port Security- NPG/BioD/Heg)__

1NC: T- T/I
Commissions CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
Breila K (2NR)
Case
Heg Bad

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Sections</span>=== 

__Round 2: Wayzata NL (Alaska Ports-Heg/Oil Spills)__

1NC: T-maintenence
Multiplank Adv CP (2NR)
Security K
VAWA Ptix
Case D
Heg Bad (2NR)

__Round 4: Washburn D? (Zizek-nuf said)__

1NC: T-Vehicles
Light Rail PIC (2NR)
Hillman K
Case D

__Round 5: Eden Prarie GH (Dredging- Econ/Artic)__

1NC: T-maintenence
States CP
VAWA DA (2NR)
Security K
Case D
Dedev (2NR)

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">State</span>=== 

__Round 2: Rooseville LR( Mass Transit-Racism)__

1NC: T-Vehicles
Light-Rail PIC (2NR)
Cap K
Hagel Da
Case

__Round 3: Wayzata CG (Alaska Ports- Heg/Oil Spills)__

1NC: T-maintenence
Advantage CP (2NR)
Hagel DA
Security K
Case D (2NR)
Lots of Case turns (2NR)

__Round 5: SPC GS (Lady Gaga D&G)__

1NC: Framework
Skateboarding counter-advocacy w/ Kappler NB
Zerzan K (2NR)
Ableist Language K
Case (2NR)


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]