[[toc]]
See Daniel Tartakovsky's page
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**Round 1 Greenhill AC**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extend is about rights citizens currently have (Merriam Webster definition)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Definition of accused m</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">eans trial through conviction:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. Copyright 2008 The Gale Group, Inc.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The generic name </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">whichever occurs first.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Current system: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Congressional Research Service 2012 [Jennifer K. Elsea Legislative Attorney “Comparison of Rights in Military Commission Trials and Trials in Federal Criminal Court” The Congressional Research Service. May 9, 2012]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. law provides for the</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> trial of suspected terrorists</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">, including those </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">procured by plea agreement. A few commission rulings have been appealed.¶ 50</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Affirmative-Checks AC-Advocacy]]Advocacy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I advocate that non-citizens accused of terrorism be tried, and granted the rights afforded to defendants in Article III federal courts.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Affirmative-Checks AC-Framework]]Framework</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">V: J</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Political philosophy, must be practical.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">MARTIN RHONHEIMER [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">It is a fundamental feature of political philosophy to be part of practical philosophy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">, but who potentially at the same time are also the rulers.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Public reason” provides the only reasonable basis for justification.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">John Rawls [Emeritus Professor of Philosophy, Harvard University “The Idea of Public Reason Revisited” The University of Chicago Law Review, Vol. 64, No. 3 (Summer, 1997), pp. 765-807.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The idea of public reason, as I understand it,' belongs to a </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">India-finding a suitable idea of public reason is a concern that faces</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Basic standards are necessary to ensure citizens accept the decisions that result from the agreed upon structure of the state, a prerequisite to any system of social cooperation.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 2 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">I now turn to a discussion of what I have labeled the third, fourth</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">be reasonable, political conceptions must justify only constitutions that satisfy this principle.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The rule of law is necessary to maintain the states role as the legitimate arbiter of the rules.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 3 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">I now wish to consider rights of the person as these are protected by the </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">the basic structure, but ones that are not by any means negligible.¶ </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">S: Maintaining rule of law</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1) Prerequisite – can’t enforce ethics without rule of law </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2) Without rule of law, pluralism is denied – arbitrary imposition of values</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Using separate legal procedures, like military tribunals, for non-citizens discriminates and violates equal protection.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Maogoto and Sheehy 07 [Jackson Maogoto, Professor of Law at The University of Manchester; Benedict Sheehy, Senior Lecturer in Business and Law at RMIT University. “Torturing the Rule of Law: USA and the Post 9-11 Legal World” Journal of Civil Rights and Economic Development. Volume 21, Issue 3 Volume 21, Spring/Summer 2007.</span>


The denial of equal protection on the basis of national origin is clearly unconstitutional.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Whitehead and Aden 02 </span>John Whitehead, President of the Rutherford Institute; and Steven Aden, Senior counsel with the Alliance Defending Freedom.“Forfeiting ‘Enduring Freedom’ for ‘National Security’: A Constitutional Analysis of the US Patriot Act and the Justice Department’s Anti-Terrorism Initiatives” 51 American University Law Review 1081-1133. Rutherford University 2002.]




<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 3:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Legal procedures that take place outside of the federal judicial system allow the executive to stack the deck against defendants.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Benson and Lewis 2010 [Daniel Benson & Calvin Lewis “REPEAL OF THE MILITARY COMMISSIONS ACT” SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA REVIEW OF LAW AND SOCIAL JUSTICE. Vol. 19. No. 2. Spring 2010.]</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Considering the procedural rules applicable to military commissions in light of the Bush administration’s fundamental </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">the ﬁrst order of business was to actually "eliminate legal constraint</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Forum choice facilitates abuses of power.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Affirmative-Checks AC-Contention 1: Post Hoc Tribunals]]Contention 2: Post Hoc Tribunals</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No “special tribunal” designed post hoc can be considered consistent.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Jordan Paust 2012 [Mike & Teresa Baker Law Center Professor, University of Houston “Still Unlawful: The Obama Military Commissions, Supreme Court Holdings, and Deviant Dicta in the D.C. Circuit” Cornell International Law Journal. VOL. 45. 2012.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">In its landmark opinion in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld,2 the U.S AND were enacted years after detainees at Guantanamo entered U.S. custody.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Ex post facto bad: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 4 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The precept that there is no offense without a law (Nullum crimen sinelege), </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">not serve to</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> organize </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">social </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">behavior by </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">providing a basis for</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> legitimate expectations.</span>

==Negative== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Government must be practical</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">MARTIN RHONHEIMER</span> [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]

means util
Gary Woller [**BYU Prof**., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, **A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics**, June 1997, pg. 10]

Value criterion:maximizing welfare
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1. act-omission</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2. values rely on consequences</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sam Harris 2010. [CEO Project Reason; PHD UCLA Neuroscience; BA Stanford Philosophy]. The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values.”</span>


A. Intelligence currently leads to the interdiction of most terrorist plots. Coburn et al 11:



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011. </span>


The trial right for the defendant to hear evidence against them unique to civilian courts leads to the release of important classified information.



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kendall Coffey 2003. “The Case for Military Tribunals: Don’t Force Courts to Choose Between the Constitution and American Lives.” May 2003. http://kendallcoffey.com/pdfs/publications/Case_for_Military_Tribunals.pdf</span>


C. Intelligence leaks compromise sources of intelligence gathering and threatens national security. Bruce:



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James Bruce 2004. “The Consequences of Permissive Neglect.” CIA Studies in Intelligence. Vol 41 No. 1. </span>
"Intelligence requires secrets... ....meant to serve"


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">D. that causes more terrorism </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Coburn et al </span>
Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011. "Where intelligence services are... ....in every six"


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">E. extinction</span>

Terrorism if unchecked causes extinction.


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dennis Morgan 2009 [Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus]. South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693. "</span>


====Round 6 CP==== 
A. TEXT: The United States of America will submit non-citizens accused of terrorism to be prosecuted under the International Criminal Court (the ICC).

B. COMPETITION:
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1)</span>** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mutual exclusivity: </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2)</span>** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Net benefits: </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C. Solvency</span>

Leads to support for international HR norms throughout the world – professionals with experience influence domestic decisions.



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Laura Dickinson 2002 [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law]. “USING LEGAL PROCESS TO FIGHT TERRORISM: DETENTIONS, MILITARY COMMISSIONS, INTERNATIONAL TRIBUNALS, AND THE RULE OF LAW.” Southern California Law Review. Vol. 75. 2002. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~usclrev/pdf/075602.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. "Second, as discussed... ...human rights norms"</span>


A. Intelligence currently leads to the interdiction of most terrorist plots. Coburn et al 11:



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011. "The principle scientific... ...of good fortune)"</span>


B. The trial right for the defendant to hear evidence against them unique to civilian courts leads to the release of important classified information.



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kendall Coffey 2003. “The Case for Military Tribunals: Don’t Force Courts to Choose Between the Constitution and American Lives.” May 2003. http://kendallcoffey.com/pdfs/publications/Case_for_Military_Tribunals.pdf "District Court Judge... ...war on terror"</span>


The ICTY isn’t bound by the //Brady// rule so it solves for intelligence concerns. Scharf 1:

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Michael P. Scharf 2001. [Law Prof and Dir. Of War Crimes Research at Case Western, Dir. Ctr for Int’l Law & Policy, New Eng School of Law; former Atty-Adviser for U.N. Affairs @ U.S. State Dept]. “The Case for an International Trial of the al-Qaeda and Taliban Perpetrators of the 9/11 Attacks”. 36 New England Law Review 911. "Fourth, the ICTY... ...may be exculpatory"</span>


C. Intelligence leaks compromise sources of intelligence gathering and threatens national security. Bruce:



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James Bruce 2004. “The Consequences of Permissive Neglect.” CIA Studies in Intelligence. Vol 41 No. 1. </span>
"Intelligence requires secrets... ....meant to serve"


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">D. that causes more terrorism</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Coburn et al</span>
Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011. "Where intelligence services are... ....in every six"


====T==== 
A. Interp -
West’s Encyclopedia of American Law explains that a person is charged when:
"The generic name.. ...whichever occurs first"
This means due process applies during the trial only

B. targeted killing is not due process

C. legal precision

D. Fairness
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===VBT AC rounds=== 
Value: Justice
Comparative worlds

Resolution = government, governments are different than people

1. government must be practical
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">MARTIN RHONHEIMER</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70] "</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">It is a fundamental... also the rulers."</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">2. pragmatism is true</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Frega [Equal Accessibility to All: Habermas, Pragmatism, and the Place of Religious Beliefs in a Post-Secular Society Roberto Frega Constellations Volume 19, Number 2, 2012] "A pragmatic theory... the pragmatic tradition"</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">leads to consequentialism</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tradeoffs mean util</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gary Woller</span> [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10] "Moreover virtually all... in a democracy"

VC: minimizing harm 

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1. util good for CJS</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Guyora Binder</span> [University at Buffalo Distinguished Professor of Law “Punishment Theory: Moral or Political?” BUFFALO CRIMINAL LAW REVIEW Vol. 5:321. 2002] "In their efforts... enable these energies"

2. life is a prereq


CONTENTION
First, prisons are bad.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">JOHN TIERNEY 2012 [“For Lesser Crimes, Rethinking Life Behind Bars” NY Times. December 11, 2012.] "Many researchers agree... parent in prison"</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That causes crime</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Okeghene Odudu 2003 [Deputy Director of the Centre for European Legal Studies at Cambridge University, Herchel Smith Lecturer and British Academy Mid-Career Fellow, “Retributivist Justice in an Unjust Society” Ratio Juris Vol. 16 No. 3 September 3003 (416-31)] "Those born into... ...a deprived background"</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rehab solves</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jon Aborn et al 1999 [“Poverty & Prejudice: Breaking the Chains of Inner City Poverty” Ethics of Development in a Global Environment. Annie van den Toorn, John Hockin, Scott Jordon, Man Nayvelt, and Michael Finkelstein. July 26] "Proponents, on the... ...short term benefits"</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contentions two and three</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cullen and Gendreau. [“Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects.” //Criminal Justice 2000//] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"The first principle... in offenders' conduct"</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"Second, the treatment... interventions with offenders"</span>
<span style="line-height: 20px;">"Even if interventions... Sanchez-Meca and Garido"</span>
"The consistency of... of treatment programs"
"It is useful... and reasonable criterion"

Fourth, deterrence fails
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James McGuire 2004 [Understanding Psychology and Crime.¶ Berkshire, GBR: McGraw-Hill Professional Publishing, 2004.] "The broadest, though, sentences, was followed"</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Impacts of crime</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jane Wilson 2007 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd] "the effects of... ...cannot be understated"</span>


===VBT AC version 2=== 
Definition of retribution
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Benn and Peters [S. I. BENN, Lecturer in Government University of Southampton; R. S. PETERS, Reader in Philosophy, Birkbeck College University of London. “Social Principles and the Democratic State” 1959.] "The two main... ...can be bridged"</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Donald A. Dripps [James Annenberg Levee Professor of Law and Criminal Procedure, University of Minnesota Law School. “Fundamental Retribution Error: Criminal Justice and the Social Psychology of Blame.” VANDERBILT LAW REVIEW. Vol. 56. 2003] "Whatever the trigger.. .for the behavior"</span>


Resolution = government, governments are different than people

1. government must be practical
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">MARTIN RHONHEIMER</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70] "</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is a fundamental... also the rulers."</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">leads to consequentialism</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tradeoffs mean util</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gary Woller</span> [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10] "Moreover virtually all... in a democracy"

VC: minimizing harm 


CONTENTION
First, prisons are bad.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">JOHN TIERNEY 2012 [“For Lesser Crimes, Rethinking Life Behind Bars” NY Times. December 11, 2012.] "Many researchers agree... parent in prison"</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That causes crime</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Okeghene Odudu 2003 [Deputy Director of the Centre for European Legal Studies at Cambridge University, Herchel Smith Lecturer and British Academy Mid-Career Fellow, “Retributivist Justice in an Unjust Society” Ratio Juris Vol. 16 No. 3 September 3003 (416-31)] "Those born into... ...a deprived background"</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rehab solves</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jon Aborn et al 1999 [“Poverty & Prejudice: Breaking the Chains of Inner City Poverty” Ethics of Development in a Global Environment. Annie van den Toorn, John Hockin, Scott Jordon, Man Nayvelt, and Michael Finkelstein. July 26] "Proponents, on the... ...short term benefits"</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention two: the causes of crime</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cullen and Gendreau. [“Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects.” //Criminal Justice 2000//] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"The first principle... in offenders' conduct"</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"Second, the treatment... interventions with offenders"</span>
"Even if interventions... Sanchez-Meca and Garido"


Third, retributivism can't work
Donald A. Dripps [James Annenberg Levee Professor of Law and Criminal Procedure, University of Minnesota Law School. “Fundamental Retribution Error: Criminal Justice and the Social Psychology of Blame.” VANDERBILT LAW REVIEW. Vol. 56. 2003] 
"Psychological research indicates... ...to be wrong"
"FAE has troubling... ...mandatory retributivism's prescriptions"

Presume aff

theory stuff





==Negative== 
===Mutual Obligations NC=== 
Value: justice 

Definition
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Michael S. Moore [Placing Blame: A General Theory of the Criminal Law, 1997]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Society has mutual obligations</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">HLA Hart ["Are There Any Natural Rights?" The Philosophical Review. Vol 64. No. 2 1955.] "Special rights are... those of disobedience"</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Richard Dagger [Professor of Political Science at Arizona State University “Playing Fair with Punishment” Ethics, Vol. 103, No. 3 (Apr., 1993), pp. 473-488] "There are however... his turn comes"</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">VC: restoring the equilibrium of benefits and burdens in society</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CONTENTION</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dagger 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"the problem is... justification for punishment"</span>

rehab doesn't meet the standard





=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]