[[toc]]
Full text for 2AC/2NC cards upon request.
2A: Jasmine Lin: iateyoursocks@gmail.com
2N: Jennifer Min: forschoolpurposesonly@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
==Mass Transit Aff== 
===1AC - Hendrickson=== 
====Contention 1 is Inherency==== 

**The status quo planning of urban cities and its transportation benefits the privileged whites at the expense of low-income minorities.**
Robert D. **Bullard, et. al**, Glenn S. Johnson, and Angel O. Torres, Publish **2004,** Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 3-5 :)
Transportation systems do not spring up out of thin air. They are planned and, in many cases, planned poorly when it comes to people of color. Conscious decisions determine the location of freeways, bus stops, fueling stations, and train stations. Decisions to build highways, expressways, and beltways have far-reaching effects on land use, energy policies, and the environment. Decisions by county commissioners to bar the extension of public transit to job-rich economic activity centers in suburban counties and instead spend their transportation dollars on repairing and expanding the nation's roads have serious mobility implications for central city residents. Together, all these transportation decisions shape United States metropolitan areas, growth patterns, physical mobility, and economic opportunities.' These same transportation policies have also aided, and in some cases subsidized, racial, economic, and environmental inequities as evidenced by the segregated housing and spatial layout of our central cities and suburbs. It is not by chance that millions of Americans have been socially isolated and relegated to economically depressed and deteriorating central cities and that transportation apartheid has been created. An Affair with the Automobile Over the past 75 years, automobile production and highway construction have multiplied, while urban mass transit systems have been dismantled or allowed to fall into disrepair. The American automobile culture was spurred by massive government investments in roads (3 million miles) and interstate highways (45,000 miles). Automobiles account for 28 percent of our nation's energy consumption. Transportation consumes 67 percent of the petroleum used in the United States.' And over 75 percent of transportation energy is used by highway vehicles. From 1998 to 1999, US gasoline consumption rose by 2.5 percent and vehicle miles traveled increased by 1.4 percent. More cars on the road has meant more pollution, traffic congestion, wasted energy, urban sprawl, residential segregation, and social disruption. Indeed, not all Americans have received the same benefits from the massive road and highway spending over the past several decades. Generally, the benefits of highways are widely dispersed among the many travelers who drive them, while the burdens of those roads are more localized. Having a seven-lane freeway next door, for instance, is not a benefit to someone who does not even own a car. People of color are twice as likely to use nonautomotive modes of travel public transit, walking, and biking to get to work, as compared to their white counterparts. In urban areas, African Americans and Latinos comprise 54 percent of transit users (62 percent of bus riders, 35 percent of subway riders, and 29 percent of commuter riders).5 Many Americans have cars and the majority of American workers opt for private automobiles, which provide speed and convenience. Most drivers forego carpooling, with three-fourths of all commuting cars carrying only one person. Generally, people who commute using public transit spend twice as much time traveling as those who travel by car. Consider that the average commute takes about 20 minutes by car, 38 minutes by bus, and 45 minutes by train. For millions of inner-city residents, public transportation is the only means of getting around. For them, there is no question that energy-efficient public transportation is needed for easy access to child-care services shopping, job centers, and health care services. Routes of Transportation Apartheid The disparity of fruits borne by various transportation development projects is a grim story of a stolen harvest with disproportionate burdens and costs paid for in diminished health and life opportunities by poor people and people of color. Many federally subsidized transportation construction and infrastructure projects cut wide paths through low-income and people of color neighborhoods. They physically isolate residents from their institutions and businesses, disrupt once-stable communities, displace thriving businesses, contribute to urban sprawl, subsidize infrastructure decline, create traffic gridlock, and subject residents to elevated risks from accidents, spills, and explosions from vehicles carrying hazardous chemicals and other dangerous materials. Adding insult to injury, cutbacks in mass transit subsidies have the potential to further isolate the poor in inner-city neighborhoods from areas experiencing job growth compromising what little they already have. So while some communities receive transportation benefits, others pay the costs. Some communities get roads, while others are stuck with the externalities such as exhaust fumes from other people's cars. Public transit and roads are not created equal. Generally, public transit in the US is often equated with the poor and the less successful On the other hand, roads are associated with private automobiles affluence, and success. In reality, both transit and roads are subsidized and form the heart of our public transportation infrastructure. The lion's share of transportation dollars is spent on roads, while urban transit systems are often left in disrepair or are strapped for funds. Public transit has received roughly $50 billion since the creation of the Urban Mass Transit Administration over thirty years ago, while roadway projects have received over $205 billion since 1956.6 Opaque transportation policy obscures the truth: transportation dollars are aiding and abetting the flight of people, jobs, and development to the suburban fringe. The subsidies paid on behalf of suburban commuter transit riders, when compared with inner-city transit riders, illustrate the extreme lack of parity within transit project funding. Transit providers routinely respond differently to their urban, inner-city, transit-dependent riders and their suburban "choice" riders who have cars. Attempts to lure white suburban commuters out of their cars and onto transit often compete with providing quality services for urban transit-dependent people of color, handicapped, and elderly transit riders. There also appears to be an unwritten rule that the poor and people of color transit riders deserve fewer transit amenities than white suburbanites who own cars. Whether intended or unintended, some transit providers bend over backward to accommodate their mostly white suburban commuters with plush, air conditioned, clean-fuel and handicapped-accessible buses and trains, while inner-city transit riders are saddled with dilapidated, "dirty" diesel buses. Enticin``g suburban commuters out of their cars will relieve congestion and improve air quality for all and should be compatible with allocating equitable transportation dollars to urban transit needs. Visions of Equitable Transportation Much of transportation planning is about the flow of dollars billions of dollars. Who gets what, when, where, why, and how much is not rocket science but political science. Why do some communities get transit while others are left out? Why do some communities get light rail while others get buses? Why are clean-fuel vehicles sent to one community and not another? Why are higher subsidies paid to one group of transit riders while other riders are shortchanged? What institutional changes are needed to build transportation equity into regional plans and programs? What progress have we made in eliminating racial discrimination in transportation decision-making? What community-organizing and legal strategies are effective in combating transportation racism? These and other transportation questions and issues are addressed in this book. 

====Plan==== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its public transportation infrastructure investment towards low income communities in the United States.**

====Contention 2 is Transportation Apartheid==== 

**First, transportation in the status quo disconnects minorities from job opportunities.**
Robert D. **Bullard, et. al**, Glenn S. Johnson, and Angel O. Torres, Publish **2004,** Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 16-19 :)
In June 1956, the US Supreme Court ruled in favor of the MIA. Martin Luther King, Jr., recognized that racism in its many forms was holding blacks back economically and that blacks were being denied the basic rights that white Americans took for granted. In his speeches, he made it clear that the racism being fought in the Montgomery transit system was not an isolated occurrence, but that racism permeated every American institution. When you go beyond the relatively simple though serious problems such as police racism, however, you begin to get into all the complexities of the modern American economy. Urban transit systems in most American cities, for example, have become a genuine civil rights issue and a valid one because the layout of rapid-transit systems determines the accessibility of jobs to the black community. If transportation systems in American cities could be laid out so as to provide an opportunity for poor people to get to meaningful employment, then they could begin to move into the mainstream of American life. A good example of this problem is my home city of Atlanta, where the rapid-transit system has been laid out for the convenience of the white upper-middle-class suburbanites who commute to their jobs downtown. The system has virtually no consideration for connecting the poor people with their jobs. There is only one possible explanation for this situation, and that is the racist blindness of city planners.' By linking the unequal treatment on and access to buses with the violation of constitutionally guaranteed civil rights, the MIA and their leaders built on the foundation laid by the UDL boycott in Baton Rouge. The Montgomery bus boycott was a turning point for many reasons. It introduced nonviolent direct action to the black South and demonstrated the collective power of a united black community. The basic organizing principles that came out of Montgomery were implemented in the nationwide civil rights movement and changed America forever.9 The black masses would no longer be treated as second-class citizens, relegated to the back of the bus. They demanded to be treated as Americans. The Freedom Riders of the early 1960s extended the attack on civil rights via transportation racism by challenging segregated seating on interstate buses. On May 4, 1961, an integrated group of thirteen Freedom Riders left Washington, DC, for New Orleans, Louisiana. When they reached Alabama, John Lewis and the young Freedom Riders were arrested and beaten and their buses fire-bombed. In their attempt to test the reality of the Brown decision, the Freedom Riders never made it to New Orleans. Instead they were met by angry white mobs and racist police. Nevertheless, no amount of government sanctioned violence could dampen the spirits and iron will of the freedom fighters. Suffering beatings and fire-bombings at the hands of mobs and police, more than four hundred Freedom Riders had been arrested by late summer 1961 for fighting transportation racism.' The combined efforts of civil rights groups such as the Congress for Racial Equality (CORE), Student Nonviolent coordinating Committee (SNCC), Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), Nashville Christian Leadership Conference (NCLC), Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights, and National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) prompted the Kennedy Administration to provide federal protection for the Freedom Riders and forced the Kennedy Administration to take a stand on civil rights. More importantly, the "Freedom Riders generated movement activity and music, helping educate and galvanize the black community for protest."" Race Matters Although the US has made tremendous strides in civil rights, race still matters in America.0 In his classic book Invisible Man, Ralph Ellison illustrated that white racism not only harms individuals, but it also renders black people and their communities invisible." By one definition, white racism is the "socially organized set of attitudes, ideas, and practices that deny African Americans and other people of color the dignity, opportunities, freedoms, and rewards that this nation offers white Americans."14 Racism combines with public policies and industry practices to provide benefits for whites while shifting costs to people of coloris Many racist acts and practices are institutionalized informally and in some cases become standard public policy. For decades, it was legal and common practice for transit agencies to operate separate and unequal systems for whites and blacks and for city, county, and state government officials to use tax dollars to provide transportation amenities for white communities while denying the same services to black communities. American cities continue to be racially polarized. Residential apartheid is the dominant housing pattern for most African Americans still the most segregated ethnic group in the country. Nowhere is this separate society contrast more apparent than in the nation's central cities and large metropolitan areas. Urban America typifies the costly legacy of slavery, Jim Crow, and institutionalized discrimination:6 America's dirty secret, institutionalized racism is part of our national heritage:7 Racism is a potent tool for sorting people into their physical environmenti8 St. Claire Drake and Horace R. Cayton, in their 1945 groundbreaking Black Metropolis, documented the role racism played in creating Chicago's South Side ghetto.'9 In 1965, psychologist Kenneth Clark proclaimed that racism created our nation's "dark ghettos."2° In 1968, the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, the Kerner Commission, reported that "white society is deeply implicated in the ghetto" and that "white institutions created it, white institutions maintain it, and white society condones it."2' The black ghetto is kept contained and isolated from the larger white society through well-defined institutional practices, private actions, and government policies." Even when the laws change, some discriminatory practices remain. Some contend that "racism is an integral, permanent, and indestructible component of this society."" Permanent or not, racism continues to be a central factor in explaining the social inequality, political exploitation, social isolation, and the poor health of people of color in the United States. Furthermore, contemporary race relations in America can no longer be viewed in the black-white paradigm. Racism makes the daily life experiences of most African Americans, Latino Americans, Native Americans, and Asian and Pacific Islander Americans very different from that of most white Americans. Modern racism must be understood as an everyday lived experience.24 Not having reliable public transportation can mean the difference between gainful employment and a life of poverty in the ghettos and barrios. Since most do not have cars, transportation is even more crucial for the vulnerable population that is moving from welfare to work. Training, skills, and jobs are meaningless if millions of Americans can't get to work. Of course, it would be ideal if job centers were closer to the homes of inner-city residents, but few urban core neighborhoods have experienced an economic revitalization that can rival the current jobs found in the suburbs. Transportation remains a major stumbling block for many to achieve self-sufficiency. It boils down to "no transportation, no job," and, more often than not, public transportation does not connect urban residents to jobs. Transportation policies did not emerge in a race- and class-neutral society. Transportation-planning outcomes often reflected the biases of their originators with the losers comprised largely of the poor, powerless, and people of color. 

**Second, restricted access to transportation hampers access to education opportunities.**
**Sanchez, et al. 03** Thomas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research ¶ fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior ¶ Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy ¶ Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard., 2003, "MOVING TO EQUITY: ¶ Addressing Inequitable Effects of ¶ Transportation Policies on Minorities," The Civil Rights ¶ Project at Harvard University, http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf linja
Creating barriers to access to education is another indirect effect of transportation ¶ policies. Following the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education,¶ 125¶ “busing” and ¶ yellow school buses became well-known symbols of the fight for equal educational opportunities ¶ for African Americans. The significance of these symbols is diminishing because more and more ¶ school systems are returning to the idea of neighborhood schools and courts are declaring school ¶ districts “unitary,” meaning they have eliminated the effects of past segregation as far as they are ¶ able. Today’s transportation policies, however, still have an effect on access to educational ¶ opportunities for a number of minorities and individuals from low-income communities. ¶ No longer do most students rely on yellow school buses to get to school. Many students ¶ depend on public transportation to attend school and college as well as participate in ¶ extracurricular activities. A recent study of this issue estimated that nationally, during normal ¶ school hours, the majority—60 percent—of all student trips were made by car and that these ¶ were primarily trips to and from school.¶ 126¶ One study found that students traveling to or from ¶ school in cities of more than 500,000 accounted for 15 percent of all public transportation ¶ trips.¶ 127¶ It was estimated in 1996 that 20 percent of school children in California were using ¶ public transportation or other special transportation service to go to school and that growing ¶ numbers of students were relying on public transportation in other states such as Ohio.¶ 128¶ ¶ As The National Academies’ Transportation Research Board stated, “transit services in ¶ large urban areas have long been used to transport students, particularly those in high school and ¶ junior high school.”¶ 129¶ While there is no research documenting how many of these students ¶ taking public transportation are minorities, it stands to reason that many of the K–12 ¶ (kindergarten through 12¶ th¶ grade) students who depend on public transportation are minorities ¶ located in urban areas with a developed public transportation system. Supporting this idea is the ¶ fact that Los Angeles,¶ 130¶ Houston,¶ 131¶ and Washington, DC¶ 132¶ —cities with significant minority ¶ populations—provide discounted public bus fares for students. ¶ Although the large majority of K–12 students do not need to rely on public transit to get ¶ to school, for those who do, access to that transportation may mean the difference between ¶ attending and missing school. For instance, during efforts to obtain free student transit passes ¶ from the Metropolitan Transportation Commission serving the San Francisco Bay area, evidence ¶ was presented that students without access to public transportation would not attend school.¶ 133¶ A ¶ number of high school students in Oakland and El Cerrito, which have significant minority ¶ populations, testified that they needed free transit passes because their families sometimes had to ¶ decide between food and bus fare.¶ 134¶ In Portland, Oregon, the school district does not provide ¶ bus service for students living within 1.5 miles of a school. Sisters in Action for Power, an ¶ organization focusing on the interests of low-income girls and girls of color, pressed for free ¶ rides to high school on public buses after its survey of more than 2,000 students found that 11 ¶ percent reported missing school due to their inability to meet transportation costs.¶ 135¶ Students in ¶ Providence, Rhode Island, in an informal survey of more than 500 high school students, found ¶ that a number of students whose families were unable to afford bus passes stayed home and ¶ missed school, especially during harsh winter days, and others got detention for being late ¶ because of the amount of time it took them to walk to school.¶ 136¶ Currently, students attending ¶ Providence public high schools who live within three miles of their school must walk or provide ¶ their own means of transportation. ¶ Limited funding for schools makes it difficult for school districts to transport all children ¶ in school buses. Recent severe cuts in school budgets makes it likely that more school districts ¶ will need to reduce the transportation services they provide and that more children will need to ¶ rely on public transportation to attend school. Transportation policies should recognize and ¶ address this growing need. ¶ In addition, education reform laws do not always consider the impact of access to ¶ transportation. For example, states authorizing charter schools do not always require that the ¶ schools provide transportation to students.¶ 137¶ Some states that require charter schools to provide ¶ transportation to students only require that they follow the same standards of other schools in the ¶ district, such as providing transportation only to those residing in the school district in which the ¶ charter school physically exists even though charter schools generally can enroll students from ¶ surrounding school districts. Failure to provide transportation may reinforce the segregative ¶ effect of charter schools by eliminating the option of low-income minority students to enroll in ¶ these schools due to a lack of transportation.¶ 138¶ Another education reform law, the No Child Left ¶ Behind Act,¶ 139¶ allows students to transfer from “failing” schools, which are often schools with ¶ predominantly minority populations. It does not require that transportation be provided to ¶ students who wish to transfer. Although this provision has the potential to reduce segregated ¶ schools, not providing transportation to nonfailing schools means that many minority students ¶ will not be able to take advantage of this option. ¶ Lack of access to transportation also affects access to higher education. Many people of ¶ color, for financial and other reasons, attend local community colleges or do not live on campus, ¶ often requiring that they find transportation other than walking. For example, minority students ¶ make up 30 percent of community college enrollment nationally and their enrollment is often ¶ higher in urban areas.¶ 140¶ It is likely that at least some of these students rely on public ¶ transportation. These students are likely to experience long or inconvenient commutes as many ¶ colleges were designed to serve a region and not necessarily to be accessible by public ¶ transportation. It is not known how many students who cannot afford a car decide not to go to ¶ college or drop out in the face of an overly arduous commute on inadequate public ¶ transportation. Federal and local transportation policies must find ways to better serve the ¶ transportation needs of those most dependent on public transportation or the dream of equal ¶ access to educational opportunities will remain deferred for many students of color.

**Third, lack of transportation worsens health problems—less access to health care.**
**Wallace, et. Al 05** R. Wallace, P. Hughes-Cromwick, and H. Mull, Altarum Institute, S. Khasnabis, Wayne State University, 2005, "Access to Health Care and¶ Nonemergency Medical Transportation," Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, pp. 80-82 linja
For both the adult and child samples, the analysis of the NHIS reveals¶ extensive comorbidities and a much higher prevalence of conditions¶ for individuals who miss care because of transportation problems¶ compared with those who do not miss care because of transportation¶ problems. This general finding has important implications for the consequences¶ of missed care. Transportation-disadvantaged status that¶ results in missed trips will potentially exacerbate the diseases and¶ may result in costly subsequent medical care (specialist visits, emergency¶ room visits, and possibly hospitalizations). Even when the¶ potential to decrease subsequent utilization by more prompt care of¶ an existing condition does not exist, quality-of-life concerns remain¶ evident and important. For example, the prevalence of frequent¶ headaches is more than twice as high for children who miss care¶ because of transportation problems than it is for other children. To the¶ extent that medical visits are being delayed for these transportation disadvantaged¶ children, they could be subject to considerable pain¶ and suffering that otherwise could be effectively treated.¶ The effects of not obtaining needed nonemergency medical care¶ because of transportation barriers on the health of affected persons¶ depend, to some extent, on whether the missed care was preventive¶ or for treatment for an existing condition. In the preventive arena,¶ lack of transportation can lead to underimmunization (17), difficulties¶ in administering screening programs (18), failure to attend pediatric¶ checkups (19), and lack of prenatal care for poor women (9, 20).¶ For chronic problems, numerous studies have documented a lack¶ of care because of transportation barriers. Conover and Whetten-¶ Goldstein, for example, found that 16.7% of AIDS and HIV patients¶ reported difficulties in obtaining transportation and as a result were¶ much less likely to have a primary care physician or to obtain regular¶ care (21). For people with diabetes, a recent study revealed that¶ those who missed more than 30% of scheduled appointments experienced¶ worse health outcomes than those who attended more often¶ (22). Additionally, patients with asthma entering the emergency¶ room were much less likely to obtain follow-up care if they did not¶ have access to transportation (23–25).

**Access to transportation is a right—it permeates every aspect of daily life and MUST be extended to minorities who can’t access it in the status quo.** 
Robert D. **Bullard, et. al**, Glenn S. Johnson, and Angel O. Torres, Publish **2004,** Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 2 :)
2 HIGHWAY ROBBERY the role transportation plays in shaping human interaction, economic mobility, and sustainability. From New York City to Los Angeles. and a host of cities in between, people of color are banding together to challenge unfair, unjust, and illegal transportation policies and practices that relegate them to the back of the bus. From Rosa Parks and the brave souls who risked their lives in the Montgomery Bus Boycott to John Lewis and the Freedom Riders, individual and organizational frontal assaults on racist transportation policies and practices represent attempts to literally dismantle the infrastructure of oppression. Natural heirs of the civil rights legacy, the Los Angeles Bus Riders Union in the 1990s and hundreds of grassroots groups in the early years of the new millennium have taken to our nation’s buses, trains, streets, and highways and joined the battle against transportation racism. Transportation racism hurts people of color communities by depriving their residents of valuable resources, investments, and mobility. This book represents a small but signiﬁcant part of the transportation equity movement—a movement that is redeﬁning transportation as an environmental, economic, civil, and human right. The need for transportation touches every aspect of our lives and daily routines. The course of one day could necessitate a range of activities: working, shopping, visiting friends, attending church, or going to the doctor. Furthermore, transportation provides access to opportunity and serves as a key component in addressing poverty, unemployment, and equal opportunity goals while ensuring equal access to education, employment, and other public services. Lest anyone dismiss transportation as a tangential expense, consider that except for housing, Americans spend more on transportation than any other household disbursement, including food. education, and health care. The average American household spends one ﬁfth of its income - or about $6,000 a year—for each car that it owns and operates? It is not uncommon for many low-income, people of color households to spend up to one-third of their income on transportation. This book afﬁrms that transportation is neither a marginal cost nor an irrelevant need, but a necessity. Highway Robbery focuses on people of color because their struggles unite transportation and civil rights into one framework: transportation equity. Transportation equity is consistent with the goals of the larger environmental justice and civil rights movements. We emphasize issues of justice, fairness, and equity. We deﬁne transportation equity as a basic right, a right worth ﬁghting for. 

**Racism lays the groundwork for subjugation and otherization**
Gretchen E. **Schafft, 2004** (Social Anthropologist, “From Racism to Genocide” page 200-202, :)
What Is Race? Discussing the early beliefs about race without first clarifying the latest think-ing about this concept could lead to misconceptions. Most people still mis-takenly believe, for instance, that each of us belongs to a definable race. Skin color, hair type, shape of facial features, and physique are associated with the idea of race in the minds of many people. A writer recently decleared that, “With few exceptions, psychologists believe that there are two sexes—male and female—and three (principal) races—Caucasoid, Mongoloid, and Ne-groid.” His point was not that this is correct; rather, it is that not only psy-chologists but most people believe this abbreviated version of human diver-sity to be true. The concept of race, according to one prominent physical anthropologist, did not occur to the earliest recorded travelers to distant places, for they were moving slowly on foot or on horseback and saw only a gradual change in the appearance of the people they met.2 The graduations of appearance seemed natural enough, as indeed they are. It was during the Renaissance, when ocean travel brought travelers to faraway lands, that the sudden differences among population groups startled them. Here were people of size, physique, and skin color very different from what these Europeans had ever seen, and the languages and customs were not at all what they could have imagined. Perhaps they thought these were not really people at all. And if they were not human, their riches could be taken from them, they could be put into bondage, they could be subjected and subjugated to the will and whims of their “superiors,” since they were outside the moral constraints that applied to fellow human beings. Seeing other people as fundamentally different from themselves allowed travelers to exploit these strange beings without remorse.’ Colonial power over the natives could be viewed paternalistically: The exploitation of natives was for their own good. In this way, the concept of race was associate-ed with power relationships and economic gain. As the colonial era was ush-ered in at the beginning of the 1600s, the concept of race offered a way to distinguish “us” and “them,” a welcome rationalization.

====Contention 3 is Solvency==== 

**Transportation infrastructure funding that privileges highways above public transit is subsidizing the suburbs at the expense of urban areas—reversal of investment is key**
**Rubin 9** (Victor, PolicyLink Vice President for Research, PhD in City and Regional Planning, All Aboard! Making Equity and Inclusion Central to Federal Transportation Policy, PolicyLink, 2009, pg. 7) PCS
Car users have been the primary beneficiaries of federal and state transportation investment, and an automobile-focused pattern of metropolitan development has become entrenched. About 80 percent of federal transportation expenditure goes toward highways, while the infrastructure for all other modes of travel competes for the remaining 20 percent. As a result of these funding disparities, lower-income people and communities of color, who rely more on public transit for mobility and access since they have significantly lower rates of car ownership, have not fared nearly as well as higher-income and white Americans. It is therefore not surprising that people of color, who tend to have significantly lower incomes, use public transportation to travel to work at rates that are up to four times higher than whites, or that African-Americans and Latinos together make up 54 percent of public transportation users in urban areas. To ensure people who do not use cars benefit from transportation investment, the next authorization must shift federal spending away from the current bias of highway building and into a “mode-neutral” system that can diversify regional transportation offerings. This could enable a “fix-it-first” approach for maintaining existing facilities and spending more on transit and other modes in which we have underinvested.

**Public transportation allows access to basic needs and social inclusion. The government must provide opportunities for individuals to choose for their own.**
**Stanley and Vella-Brodrick 09** Janet Stanley, Janet Stanley Monash Sustainability Institute, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia, AND Dianne Vella-Brodrick, School of Psychology, Psychiatry and Psychological Medicine, Monash University, Caulfield 3145, Australia, July 2009, “The usefulness of social exclusion to inform social policy in transport,” Transport Policy
Volume 16, Issue 3, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0967070X09000043 linja
The role of transport in facilitating social inclusion through the¶ development of social capital, according to the SEU, may be¶ through promoting accessibility to key services. For example, the¶ provision of public transport may facilitate direct access to¶ employment by providing a means to get to a job. Alternatively,¶ however, transport may provide the means to enable people to¶ form associations or relationships and engage with other people¶ and groups, a common way of creating employment opportunities. The act of being on public transport, in itself, may directly¶ improve social capital, as travel offers opportunities to engage¶ with other travellers and feel part of a community of people.¶ Little theoretical work has been undertaken on social capital¶ and transport, apart from some recognition that transport does¶ play a role. Putnam (2000) has suggested there are negative links¶ between car dependence and the development of effective social¶ capital. Axhausen (2005) notes the lack of empirical evidence of¶ cheap travel and therefore increased communications, on the¶ structure of social networks. Urry (undated) argues that to be a¶ full, active and engaged member of society requires social capital¶ within localities and participation involves transportation and¶ mobility.¶ Similarly, well-being has not been adequately examined in¶ studies on transport. Given the strong association between¶ happiness and a range of desirable outcomes and qualities¶ ‘such as sociability, optimism, energy, originality and altruism’¶ (Lyubomirsky et al., 2005, p. 846) the omission of well-being in¶ such studies is a major shortcoming. Mobility is not always about¶ getting from A to B, rather it is about integrating everyday life and¶ ‘normal’ activities (Cass et al., 2005). Social inclusion is clearly¶ about being able to enjoy life, leisure and relationships. The¶ importance of transport for well-being is conﬁrmed in a South¶ African study, based in a rural village and an urban town (Clark,¶ 2002, quoted in Clarke and Gough, 2005). Transportation was¶ rated as being essential by 54.8% of participants. Items like jobs,¶ access to clean water and sanitation, housing and shelter and¶ family and friends were seen to be more important than¶ transportation. However, transportation was viewed to be more¶ important than having children, income and wealth, basic¶ clothing and living a long time, and equal to free time/recreation,¶ and political rights (voting, freedom of speech and association).¶ While not under-estimating the importance of being able to¶ access critical services like education and health, it is the¶ unstructured realm of friends, family leisure and social experiences that are also of great importance for inclusion. This ﬁnding¶ was conﬁrmed in a small study that examined the use of new bus¶ services in an outer Melbourne suburb (Bell et al., 2006). While¶ people used these new services to access education and other¶ services, the major use of the new services was for social and¶ leisure activities of an informal, unstructured nature.¶ This suggests that there are important elements, which should¶ be considered. There is a need for social governance goals: the¶ ability of people to determine their own goals of social inclusion¶ and well-being, rather than these requirements being assumed, as¶ is commonly the case where accessibility to services is viewed as¶ the required outcome. There needs to be opportunities for people¶ to be able to choose and access alternatives and achieve these¶ outcomes. This argument aligns with work being undertaken by¶ theorists like Nussbaum (2005) who seek to understand the¶ components of well-being. She argues that individuals should¶ choose what well-being is to them (within the limits of the legal¶ system) and the government has to provide opportunities so this¶ choice can be made (Nussbaum, 2005). Sen (1987), as noted¶ earlier, argues that a person’s well-being should be based on¶ the capacity to do, which may be unequal between people¶ (Nussbaum, 2005). To achieve certain levels of capability, it may¶ be necessary to offer more to those who have less, in order to¶ overcome the systematic disadvantage they face.¶ Thus, there is an argument that a minimum public transport¶ service needs to be provided by governments so people can use¶ these services to enhance their capabilities (Stanley et al., 2007).¶ This is commonly the case in developed countries for the¶ provision of health and education services, and it should also be¶ so for transport. This is a clear link with the concept of social¶ exclusion, where people may have reduced capabilities due to¶ factors such as low income, poor health and disability.

**Framing transportation in the ideas of social justice increases accessibility for the transportation-disadvantaged**
**Lewis 11** (David, PhD. and senior vice president for the International Transportation Forum, “Economic Perspectives on Transport and Equality”, pg 26-27, 5/12, http://www.internationaltransportforum.org/jtrc/DiscussionPapers/DP201109.pdf) AH
Poverty, inequality and social exclusion are closely tied to personal mobility and the accessibility of goods and services. Evidence of the economic role of transport in promoting belter living standards and greater wellbeing can be seen in the effects of both overall public investment in transport infrastructure, and in the impacts of specific transport policies, projects and multi-project plans. At the level of overall public expenditure, transport capital investment measurably promotes growth in worker productivity: This is significant because productivity growth is key to facilitating growth in personal incomes and living standards, and to closing income disparities between regions and sub-regions. At the level of specific policies, investments and plans, transport is seen to create economic wellbeing for a wide range socially disadvantaged groups, including the poor, elderly people, people with disabilities, children, young adults, and women. Such benefits include greater accessibility to work and other life-chances and reduced stigmatic harms associated with social exclusion. This paper argues that transport planning, economic evaluation, and governance modalities need to do a better job of adapting to the perspective on transport as a legitimate policy instrument for diminishing inequality and creating a just distribution of social value. Analysis methods to identify and measure such value, and governance mechanisms to ensure that equity objectives are properly served, are beginning to appear. This is a trend to be encouraged, particularly through the extension of economic evaluation methods and governance mechanisms to: • Account for a wider range of transport benefits and effects than traditionally recognized; • Address multi-project and multi-policy plans as well as individual projects; and • Shape transport plans with measures, both transport and non-transport, that mitigate systematic social biases; and • Give transport a direct, proactive role in fostering equality (rather than merely mitigating social biases) by encouraging the development of emerging policy development and planning methods that are rooted less in welfare economics and more in the operational ideas of social justice.

====Contention 4 is Framing==== 

**Judges must reject racism—we are steeped in beliefs of superiority and must actively detach ourselves from our privileged viewpoint.**
**Scott 99**
Wendy Brown Scott, Law, Tulane, 1999 “Transformative Desegregation: Liberating Hearts and Minds” 2 J. Gender Race & Just. 315 L/N
Judges and college and university faculty members, the majority of whom are white and male, must be willing to cross borders and divest their hearts and minds of the belief in the superiority of Western culture. As Arthur Schlesinger put it, judges must "face the shameful fact: historically America has been a racist nation." n214 Judges must see that they are steeped in the very traditions and values inculcated by Eurocentric curriculum, and that the incantation of neutrality is not sufficient to overcome their inherent biases. n215 Then they can weigh their own traditions and values, which have historically denigrated or denounced difference, against traditionally subordinated concepts (such as multiculturalism and Afrocentrism) in order to determine whether the failure to include these perspectives in curricula violates the Constitution. In this same vein, bell hooks argues that not only must the black life experience be "decolonized," but that whites must be "decolonized" themselves. n216 hooks describes the problem which requires decolonization: During that time of my life when racial apartheid forbid possibilities of intimacy and closeness with whites, I was most able to forget about the pain of racism... Close to white folks, I am forced to witness firsthand their willful ignorance about the impact of race and racism. The harsh absolutism of their denial. Their refusal to acknowledge accountability for racist conditions past and present. She defines decolonization as the process of whites "unlearning white supremacy by divesting of white privilege" and blacks divesting of the "vestiges of internalized racism." Those vestiges include: the belief among white Americans, which perpetuates the exercise of white privilege, that they are not responsible for racism; their belief that black people should be feared and dreaded; the belief among black and white people that racism is intractable and permanent, and that no meaningful bonds of intimacy can be formed between blacks and whites and therefore, white supremacy should not be resisted; and the economic necessity of the repression of black rage directed toward whites. __n219__ She states that "the political process of decolonization is ... a way for us to learn to see [one another more] clearly. It is the way to freedom for both colonized and colonizer." Several methods have been suggested for crossing the racial divide to achieve intellectual desegregation or decolonization. Ralph Ellison suggested a form of consciousness-raising as the cure for this "hierarchical psychosis" that is exhibited in the so-called campus culture wars. This projection, this identification of the socially unacceptable with blacks, must be raised to consciousness. We must be aware of what is going on because only through this will we be able to reassume that optimism so necessary for living and dealing with the many problems of this diverse pluralistic society. Democracy is a collectivity of individuals

**This type of everyday violence must be prioritized in your calculations. We are desensitized to structural violence and must not continue its legitimization**
**Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois ‘4**
(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn)
(Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)
This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this anthology’s thesis. It encompasses everything from the routinized, bureaucratized, and utterly banal violence of children dying of hunger and maternal despair in Northeast Brazil (Scheper-Hughes, Chapter 33) to elderly African Americans dying of heat stroke in Mayor Daly’s version of US apartheid in Chicago’s South Side (Klinenberg, Chapter 38) to the racialized class hatred expressed by British Victorians in their olfactory disgust of the “smelly” working classes (Orwell, Chapter 36). In these readings violence is located in the symbolic and social structures that overdetermine and allow the criminalized drug addictions, interpersonal bloodshed, and racially patterned incarcerations that characterize the US “inner city” to be normalized (Bourgois, Chapter 37 and Wacquant, Chapter 39). Violence also takes the form of class, racial, political self-hatred and adolescent self-destruction (Quesada, Chapter 35), as well as of useless (i.e. preventable), rawly embodied physical suffering, and death (Farmer, Chapter 34). Absolutely central to our approach is a blurring of categories and distinctions between wartime and peacetime violence. Close attention to the “little” violences produced in the structures, habituses, and mentalites of everyday life shifts our attention to pathologies of class, race, and gender inequalities. More important, it interrupts the voyeuristic tendencies of “violence studies” that risk publicly humiliating the powerless who are often forced into complicity with social and individual pathologies of power because suffering is often a solvent of human integrity and dignity. Thus, in this anthology we are positing a violence continuum comprised of a multitude of “small wars and invisible genocides” (see also Scheper- Hughes 1996; 1997; 2000b) conducted in the normative social spaces of public schools, clinics, emergency rooms, hospital wards, nursing homes, courtrooms, public registry offices, prisons, detention centers, and public morgues. The violence continuum also refers to the ease with which humans are capable of reducing the socially vulnerable into expendable nonpersons and assuming the license - even the duty - to kill, maim, or soul-murder. We realize that in referring to a violence and a genocide continuum we are flying in the face of a tradition of genocide studies that argues for the absolute uniqueness of the Jewish Holocaust and for vigilance with respect to restricted purist use of the term genocide itself (see Kuper 1985; Chaulk 1999; Fein 1990; Chorbajian 1999). But we hold an opposing and alternative view that, to the contrary, it is absolutely necessary to make just such existential leaps in purposefully linking violent acts in normal times to those of abnormal times. Hence the title of our volume: Violence in War and in Peace. If (as we concede) there is a moral risk in overextending the concept of “genocide” into spaces and corners of everyday life where we might not ordinarily think to find it (and there is), an even greater risk lies in failing to sensitize ourselves, in misrecognizing protogenocidal practices and sentiments daily enacted as normative behavior by “ordinary” good-enough citizens. Peacetime crimes, such as prison construction sold as economic development to impoverished communities in the mountains and deserts of California, or the evolution of the criminal industrial complex into the latest peculiar institution for managing race relations in the United States (Waquant, Chapter 39), constitute the “small wars and invisible genocides” to which we refer. This applies to African American and Latino youth mortality statistics in Oakland, California, Baltimore, Washington DC, and New York City. These are “invisible” genocides not because they are secreted away or hidden from view, but quite the opposite. As Wittgenstein observed, the things that are hardest to perceive are those which are right before our eyes and therefore taken for granted. In this regard, Bourdieu’s partial and unfinished theory of violence (see Chapters 32 and 42) as well as his concept of misrecognition is crucial to our task. By including the normative everyday forms of violence hidden in the minutiae of “normal” social practices - in the architecture of homes, in gender relations, in communal work, in the exchange of gifts, and so forth - Bourdieu forces us to reconsider the broader meanings and status of violence, especially the links between the violence of everyday life and explicit political terror and state repression, Similarly, Basaglia’s notion of “peacetime crimes” - crimini di pace - imagines a direct relationship between wartime and peacetime violence. Peacetime crimes suggests the possibility that war crimes are merely ordinary, everyday crimes of public consent applied systematic- ally and dramatically in the extreme context of war. Consider the parallel uses of rape during peacetime and wartime, or the family resemblances between the legalized violence of US immigration and naturalization border raids on “illegal aliens” versus the US government- engineered genocide in 1938, known as the Cherokee “Trail of Tears.” Peacetime crimes suggests that everyday forms of state violence make a certain kind of domestic peace possible. Internal “stability” is purchased with the currency of peacetime crimes, many of which take the form of professionally applied “strangle-holds.” Everyday forms of state violence during peacetime make a certain kind of domestic “peace” possible. It is an easy-to-identify peacetime crime that is usually maintained as a public secret by the government and by a scared or apathetic populace. Most subtly, but no less politically or structurally, the phenomenal growth in the United States of a new military, postindustrial prison industrial complex has taken place in the absence of broad-based opposition, let alone collective acts of civil disobedience. The public consensus is based primarily on a new mobilization of an old fear of the mob, the mugger, the rapist, the Black man, the undeserving poor. How many public executions of mentally deficient prisoners in the United States are needed to make life feel more secure for the affluent? What can it possibly mean when incarceration becomes the “normative” socializing experience for ethnic minority youth in a society, i.e., over 33 percent of young African American men (Prison Watch 2002). In the end it is essential that we recognize the existence of a genocidal capacity among otherwise good-enough humans and that we need to exercise a defensive hypervigilance to the less dramatic, permitted, and even rewarded everyday acts of violence that render participation in genocidal acts and policies possible (under adverse political or economic conditions), perhaps more easily than we would like to recognize. Under the violence continuum we include, therefore, all expressions of radical social exclusion, dehumanization, depersonal- ization, pseudospeciation, and reification which normalize atrocious behavior and violence toward others. A constant self-mobilization for alarm, a state of constant hyperarousal is, perhaps, a reasonable response to Benjamin’s view of late modern history as a chronic “state of emergency” (Taussig, Chapter 31). We are trying to recover here the classic anagogic thinking that enabled Erving Goffman, Jules Henry, C. Wright Mills, and Franco Basaglia among other mid-twentieth-century radically critical thinkers, to perceive the symbolic and structural relations, i.e., between inmates and patients, between concentration camps, prisons, mental hospitals, nursing homes, and other “total institutions.” Making that decisive move to recognize the continuum of violence allows us to see the capacity and the willingness - if not enthusiasm - of ordinary people, the practical technicians of the social consensus, to enforce genocidal-like crimes against categories of rubbish people. There is no primary impulse out of which mass violence and genocide are born, it is ingrained in the common sense of everyday social life. The mad, the differently abled, the mentally vulnerable have often fallen into this category of the unworthy living, as have the very old and infirm, the sick-poor, and, of course, the despised racial, religious, sexual, and ethnic groups of the moment. Erik Erikson referred to “pseudo- speciation” as the human tendency to classify some individuals or social groups as less than fully human - a prerequisite to genocide and one that is carefully honed during the unremark- able peacetimes that precede[s] the sudden, “seemingly unintelligible” outbreaks of mass violence. Collective denial and misrecognition are prerequisites for mass violence and genocide. But so are formal bureaucratic structures and professional roles. The practical technicians of everyday violence in the backlands of Northeast Brazil (Scheper-Hughes, Chapter 33), for example, include the clinic doctors who prescribe powerful tranquilizers to fretful and frightfully hungry babies, the Catholic priests who celebrate the death of “angel-babies,” and the municipal bureaucrats who dispense free baby coffins but no food to hungry families. Everyday violence encompasses the implicit, legitimate, and routinized forms of violence inherent in particular social, economic, and political formations. It is close to what Bourdieu (1977, 1996) means by “symbolic violence,” the violence that is often “nus-recognized” for something else, usually something good. Everyday violence is similar to what Taussig (1989) calls “terror as usual.” All these terms are meant to reveal a public secret - the hidden links between violence in war and violence in peace, and between war crimes and “peace-time crimes.” Bourdieu (1977) finds domination and violence in the least likely places - in courtship and marriage, in the exchange of gifts, in systems of classification, in style, art, and culinary taste- the various uses of culture. Violence, Bourdieu insists, is everywhere in social practice. It is misrecognized because its very everydayness and its familiarity render it invisible. Lacan identifies “rneconnaissance” as the prerequisite of the social. The exploitation of bachelor sons, robbing them of autonomy, independence, and progeny, within the structures of family farming in the European countryside that Bourdieu escaped is a case in point (Bourdieu, Chapter 42; see also Scheper-Hughes, 2000b; Favret-Saada, 1989). Following Gramsci, Foucault, Sartre, Arendt, and other modern theorists of power-vio- lence, Bourdieu treats direct aggression and physical violence as a crude, uneconomical mode of domination; it is less efficient and, according to Arendt (1969), it is certainly less legitimate. While power and symbolic domination are not to be equated with violence - and Arendt argues persuasively that violence is to be understood as a failure of power - violence, as we are presenting it here, is more than simply the expression of illegitimate physical force against a person or group of persons. Rather, we need to understand violence as encompassing all forms of “controlling processes” (Nader 1997b) that assault basic human freedoms and individual or collective survival. Our task is to recognize these gray zones of violence which are, by definition, not obvious. Once again, the point of bringing into the discourses on genocide everyday, normative experiences of reification, depersonalization, institutional confinement, and acceptable death is to help answer the question: What makes mass violence and genocide possible? In this volume we are suggesting that mass violence is part of a continuum, and that it is socially incremental and often experienced by perpetrators, collaborators, bystanders - and even by victims themselves - as expected, routine, even justified. The preparations for mass killing can be found in social sentiments and institutions from the family, to schools, churches, hospitals, and the military. They harbor the early “warning signs” (Charney 1991), the “priming” (as Hinton, ed., 2002 calls it), or the “genocidal continuum” (as we call it) that push social consensus toward devaluing certain forms of human life and lifeways from the refusal of social support and humane care to vulnerable “social parasites” (the nursing home elderly, “welfare queens,” undocumented immigrants, drug addicts) to the militarization of everyday life (super-maximum-security prisons, capital punishment; the technologies of heightened personal security, including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization

**The construction of risk and framing of objectivity dooms impact calculus—objectivity does not exist. The claim that risk scenarios are objectively true creates a dictatorship in everyday life.**
Ulrich **Beck,** Professor for Sociology at the University of Munich, **1992** (Risk Society p. 27-30)
The knowledge dependency and invisibility of civilization's risk positions of course do not suffice to define them conceptually; they also contain additional components. Statements on hazards are never reducible to mere statements of fact. As part of their constitution, they contain both a theoretical and a normative component. The findings `significant concentrations of lead in children' or `pesticide substances in mothers' milk' as such are no more risk positions of civilization than the nitrate concentrations in the rivers or the sulfur dioxide content of the air. A causal interpretation must be added, which makes this appear to be a product of the industrial mode of production, a systematic side effect of modernization. In socially recognized risks, therefore, the authorities and agents of the modernization process along with all their particular interests and dependencies are presumed, and are placed in a direct connection, in the pattern of cause and effect, with signs of damage and threats that are socially, substantively, spatially and temporally quite detached. The woman sitting in a three-bedroom apartment in a housing estate of sub¬urban Munich and nursing her three-month-old son Martin is in this way `directly related' to the chemical industry that produces agricultural chemicals, to the farmers who find themselves forced by EEC rules to engage in specialized mass production with overfertilization and so on. The radius in which one can search for side effects remains largely open. Recently an overdose of DDT was even found in Antarctic penguins.¶ These examples show two things: firstly, that modernization risks appear in geographically specific areas, as well as unspecifically and universally; secondly, how erratic and unpredictable the tortuous paths of their deleterious effects can be. In modernization risks, then, things which are substantively-objectively, spatially and temporally disparate are drawn together causally and thus brought into a social and legal context of responsibility. As we have known at least since Hume, however, presumptions of causality escape our perception. They must always be imagined, implied to be true, believed. In this sense too, risks are invisible. The implied causality always remains more or less uncertain and tentative. Thus we are dealing with a theoretical and hence a scientized consciousness, even in the everyday consciousness of risks.¶ Implicit Ethics¶ Even this causal linking of the institutionally separated does not suffice. Risks experienced presume a normative horizon of lost security and broken trust. Hence, even where they approach us silently, clad in numbers and formulas, risks remain fundamentally localized, mathematical condensations of wounded images of a life worth living. These ideas must in turn be believed, that is, they cannot be experienced as such. In this sense, risks are objectified negative images of utopias, in which the human, or what is left of it, is preserved and revived in the modernization process. Despite all its unrecognizability, this normative horizon, in which the riskiness of the risk first becomes tangible, cannot ultimately be removed by mathematics or experiments. Behind all the objectifications, sooner or later the question of acceptance arises and with it anew the old question: how do we wish to live? What is the human quality of humankind, the natural quality of nature which is to be preserved? The spreading talk of `catastrophe' is in this sense an objectivized, pointed, radicalized expression that this development is not wanted.¶ These revived questions - what is humankind? what do we think about nature? - may be shunted back and forth between everyday life, politics and science. In the most advanced developmental stage of civilization they once again occupy a very high place on the agenda, even or especially where they were supposed to have been made invisible by their traditional magic cap of mathematical formulas and methodological controversies. Determinations of risks are the form in which ethics, and with it also philosophy, culture and politics, is resurrected inside the centers of modernization - in business, the natural sciences and the technical disciplines. They are, one might say, an unwanted means of democratization in the fields of industrial production and management, which somehow does become public discussion, depending on risk reasoning. Risk determinations are an unrecognized, still undeveloped symbiosis of the natural and the human sciences, of everyday and expert rationality, of interest and fact. They are simultaneously neither simply the one nor only the other. They can no longer be isolated from one another through specialization, and developed and set down according to their own standards of rationality. They require a cooperation across the trenches of 'disciplines, citizens' groups, factories, administration and politics, or - which is more likely - they disintegrate between these into antagonistic definitions and definitional struggles.¶ Scientific and Social Rationality¶ Herein lies the essential and momentous consequence: in definitions of risks the sciences' monopoly on rationality is broken. There are always competing and conflicting claims, interests and viewpoints of the various agents of modernity and affected groups, which are forced together in defining risks in the sense of cause and effect, instigator and injured party. There is no expert on risk. Many scientists do go to work with the entire impetus and pathos of their objective rationality, and their effort to be objective grows in proportion to the political content of their defini¬tions. But at the center of their work they continue to be reliant on social and thus prescribed expectations and values. Where and how does one draw the line between still acceptable and no longer acceptable exposures? How susceptible to compromise are the presupposed standards? Should the possibility of an ecological catastrophe be accepted, for instance, in order to satisfy economic interests? What are necessities, supposed necessities, and necessities that must be changed?¶ Science's rationality claim to be able to investigate objectively the hazardousness of a risk permanently refutes itself. It is based, firstly, on a house of cards of speculative assumptions, and moves exclusively within a framework of probability statements, whose prognoses of safety cannot even be refuted, strictly speaking, by actual accidents. Secondly, one must assume an ethical point of view in order to discuss risks meaningfully at all. Risk determinations are based on mathematical possibilities and social interests, especially, if they are presented with technical certainty. In deal¬ing with civilization's risks, the sciences have always abandoned their foundation of experimental logic and made a polygamous marriage with business, politics and ethics - or more precisely, they live with the latter in a sort of `permanent marriage without a license'.¶ This hidden external determination in risk research becomes a problem at the very least when scientists still appear with a monopoly claim on rationality. The studies of reactor safety restrict themselves to the estima¬tion of certain quantifiable risks on the basis of probable accidents. The dimensions of the hazard are limited from the very beginning to technical manageability. In some circles it is said that risks which are not yet technically manageable do not exist - at least not in scientific calculation or jurisdictional judgment. These uncalculable threats add up to an unknown residual risk which becomes the industrial endowment for everyone everywhere. For large segments of the population and for opponents of nuclear energy, its catastrophic potential is central. No matter how small an accident probability is held, it is too large when one accident means annihilation. But the quantifiable concepts of risk concen¬trate on the probable occurrence of an accident and deny the difference, let us say, between a limited aircraft crash and the explosion of an atomic plant, improbable as it might be, which affects nations and generations not yet born. Furthermore, in the public discussions, hazardous qualities have roles which are not dealt with at all in the risk studies, such as the proliferation of nuclear weapons; the changeability of chemical and atomic technologies from civil to military uses and purposes; the gray zone between normal and war production, which expands with expanding risk industries and markets all over the world; the contradiction between humanity (mistakes and failures) and safety; or the length and irrever¬sibility of mega-technological decisions that trifle with the lives of future generations. There is no perfect system, and no perfect human being who fits its necessities. Even trying to establish something like a perfect system would mean to establish perfect control, some kind of dictatorship in everyday life.¶ In other words, what becomes clear in risk discussions are the fissures and gaps between scientific and social rationality in dealing with the hazardous potential of civilization. The two sides talk past each other. Social movements raise questions that are not answered by the risk technicians at all, and the technicians answer questions which miss the point of what was really asked and what feeds public anxiety.¶ Scientific and social rationality do indeed break apart, but they remain at the same time interwoven and interdependent. Strictly speaking, even this distinction is becoming less and less possible. The scientific concern with the risks of industrial development in fact relies on social expectations and value judgments, just as the social discussion and perception of risks depend on scientific arguments. Risk research follows with some embarrassment in the footsteps of 'technophobia' which it was called upon to restrain, and from which, moreover, it has received an undreamed-of material support in recent years. Public criticism and disquiet derive essentially from the dialectic of expertise and counter-expertise. Without scientific arguments and scientific critique of scientific arguments they remain dull; indeed, they cannot even perceive the mainly `invisible' object and event of their critique and fears. To modify a famous phrase: scientific rationality without social rationality remains emptv, but social rationality without scientific rationality remains blind.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]