[[toc]]
=Barrington Winter Classic 1AC-Port Security= 
Same as UMICH 1AC
=University of Michigan 1AC-Port Security= 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text</span>== 
====Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security.==== 

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Terrorism</span>== 

Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAPA 3/7[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAPA urges Congress .... the federal level.</span>

Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NPR 3/26 (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)</span>
As Mike Shuster ....<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> highly enriched uranium.¶</span>

Attack is on the brink – anti-Muslim video
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ephron 9-15 (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The bodies of .... will be a miracle.”</span>

Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maerli 2k(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer-2K, p. 111-112.)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A striking parallel ....</span> a nuclear explosive.
New terrorists have the motivation to attack – multiple reasons
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lippman 3 (Matthew, Professor, Department of Criminal Justice, University of Illinois-Chicago, “The New Terrorism and International Law,” TULSA JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE AND INTERNATIONAL LAW v. 10, 2003, p. 302-304)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The contemporary era ..... limited political objectives. n62</span>
Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 6/26 (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLIONS of cargo ...... Congressional Research Service. </span>

Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvan 12 (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Department of.....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> called “dirty bombs.’</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">’¶</span>

Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ayson 10 (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
A terrorist nuclear .....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> of nuclear restraint.</span>

Studies and historical trends prove that terrorists want to attack ports
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hurst 8 (Cindy, political-military research analyst with the Foreign Military Studies¶ Office and is also a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve, writing for IAGS: Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, non-profit organization in Washington dedicated to research and public debate on issues related to energy security, “The Terrorist Threat to ¶ Liquefied Natural Gas:¶ Fact or Fiction?”, [[http://www.iags.org/hurstlng0208.pdf]], 2/8)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">recent studies</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> .....</span> the U.S. economy.

Bioterrorism is incredibly easy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allison 9-7 (Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capabilities for producing ..... era of megaterror.</span>

Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GSN 9 (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">¶The inspector general ...... Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>

That causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 2 – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of all the ..... IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

A port attack shuts down naval power
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Watts 5 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. 1 </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__Connecting the continental ......__ from the experience? </span>

Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Talor et al. 7 (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. Navy...... overburdened airlift resources. </span>

Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11 (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In light of global .....</span> at a “tipping point.”

Specifically deters Iran
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klare 12 (Michael T., Five college professor of Peace and World Security studies, Defense correspondent at //The Nation// magazine, on the Board of Directors of Human Rights Watch, “America’s maritime power”, [[http://mondediplo.com/2012/03/06uspacific]], 3/2/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">According to Obama .....</span> other rising powers.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons sparks a massive arms race </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 3/2 (George, retired senator of 15 years, senate majority leader for 6 years, currently serves as co-chair of the Housing Commission at the Bipartisan Policy Center, “Former Sen. Mitchell: Nuclear Iran Would Ignite Worldwide Arms Race”, [[http://americannewsreport.com/former-sen-mitchell-nuclear-iran-would-ignite-worldwide-arms-race-8813376.html]], 3/2/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Few U.S. Senators ..... around the world.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That causes global nuclear war and extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Primakov 9 (Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, 9/08)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Middle East ......</span> such a possibility.

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is the Economy</span>== 
Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy their generic defense doesn’t assume total economic collapse, just reczession induced dips
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flynn 3 (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator ..... up international trade.</span>

Attacks don’t need to be successful- perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clark et al. 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Why? Because</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">in ......any counter-terrorism plan.</span>

Collaspe spills over globally resulting in worldwide economic gridlock
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schanzer and Eyerman, 2010</span> (David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe, Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf)

Scenario Three: Direct .....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> run out of food.</span>

Extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bearden, 2000</span> (Director, Association of Distinguished American Scientists, “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve it Quickly”, June 24, [[http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm]])

History bears out ..... for many decades.\

U.S. competitiveness is decreasing now
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Hill 9/5 (The Hill news service, “US slips in global competitiveness rankings”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/economy/247619-us-slips-in-global-competitiveness-rankings]], 9/5/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States is ..... a sustainable growth path.”</span>

So is growth and unemployment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 8/29 (New York Times news service, citing government data, “Economy Still Stuck in Low Gear”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/business/economy/second-quarter-growth-revised-up-to-1-7-percent-rate.html]], 8/29/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Government data released ..... at 8.3 percent</span>

Economic growth is key to prevent conflict
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bernauera 10 (Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, Vally Koubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Previous research has ..... the existing literature. </span>

New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palac-McMiken 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">However, counter-terrorism ....... purpose of illustration.</span>
Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4 – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The loss of investor.....</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **__negative feedback effects__**__.__</span>


The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fritelli 5 – Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ships are the ..... for U.S. importers.</span>

U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boudreux 6(Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">During the past ...... to these foreigners.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is Solvency</span>== 

Visualization and imaging technology solves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PPIC 6 (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As documentation cannot ....... are then detected.¶ </span>

New computer and software takes out any solvency deficits
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PPIC 6 (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In-Port Imaging. ...... and agile retreads.¶ 50¶ </span>


Despite devastating losses Al Qaeda and terrorist groups continue to expand – this proves their resiliency and means none of your advantage counter-plans solve
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fox News 8/1 (Fox News service, citing the State Department’s Country Report on Terrorism and its top Counterterrorism official Daniel Benjamin, “Al Qaeda gaining 'operational capability' despite core losses, report shows”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/31/al-qaeda-gaining-operational-capability-despite-core-losses-report-shows/]], 8/1/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Western strikes on...... of greater violence.</span>







[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]