[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: arial,sans,sans-serif; text-align: left;">vs. Mountain Brook MS: T Human, Wep DA, Suffering K, OTEC/Multiplank CP, JV Politics, Case D</span>
=Round 2= 
Plan Text
The United States Federal Government should deploy the Joint Milli-Arcsecond Pathfinder Survey beyond the earth’s mesosphere
1- Inherency

No funding in the squo- budget cutbacks
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Computational Physics Inc 2012</span>- research and development (R&D) company [[http://www.careerstrategies.cpi.com/projects/jmaps.htmlhnasser|http://www.careerstrategies.cpi.com/projects/jmaps.html**hnasser**]]
__The Joint Milli-Arcsecond Pathfinder …__ stars up to absolute magnitude 12.

SSA data is insufficient in the status quo- systems can detect objects but not catalogue them
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gaume et al 6- </span>“Joint Milli-Arcsecond Pathfinder Survey (J-MAPS) Mission: The Application of High Metric Accuracy Astrometry to Space Situational Awareness” Dr. Ralph Gaume, Mr. Bryan Dorland, Dr. David Monet, Dr. Kenneth Johnston United States Naval Observatory http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA498094
01 APR 2006 **hnasser**
__Two__ critical __aspects of the__ … __current and envisioned SSA systems.__



2- Hege
Scenario 1- Hege
There’s no space deterrence strategy in the status quo- increases vulnerability
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of DirectorsAND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute
(“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1
__The U.S. has several__ key __components … may take care of itself.__

China will attack 2 reasons
a) Doctrine
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Houpt 10/31/11</span> (Danny Houpt recently earned an M.A. in Security Studies from Georgetown University where he completed his thesis, “Does China have a Comprehensive, Coordinated, and Consistent Space Policy? Implications for U.S. Policymakers.” “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/2,)
Given the dual-use nature … __balloons to gauge foreign response.__
b) Miscalculation
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">MacDonald, 11 -</span> Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)
These factors are reasons why __… high and likely to grow.__

That destroys hege- the military needs space
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Marshall, 8</span> - NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science)
__Space assets are one of …__ could benefit from further research.

Extinction
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Barnett 11</span>- Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7
It is worth first examining … South-South trade and investment.

Your turns are non-unique- no willful restraint of hegemony- only a risk the plan prevents nuclear lash out
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Goldstein ‘7</span>(Avery, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August)
Two closely related, though distinct, … prior to the possible crossover.19

SSA solves attributive deterrence
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Craig 10- </span>Col Craig A. Smith, USAF Staff Judge Advocate, Air Force Space Command Peterson AFB, Colorado “Legal Considerations of International Space Operation” February 2010 Volume 6, Number 2 High Frontier **hnasser**
Event Identification - The Importance of … __—in, from, toward, or through space.” 15__

Attribution is key for a successful deterrence strategy
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of DirectorsAND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute
(“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1
__There are two elements of … makers, why an attack occurred.__

3- Debris

Scenario 1 is Russian Miscalculation
Russian satellites are vulnerable to debris- cause accidental launch
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sat News 4/4-12</span>Satnews Daily April 04, 2012, Robert Bridge, http://www.satnews.com/cgi-bin/story.cgi?number=886826536
__The great frontier of space …__ known to have hit someone

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Extinction </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bostrom 2</span>- Nick, Recipient of … or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.

A conflict over missile defense is inevitable- MAD is collapsing in the status quo
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">RT 4/2-</span> Russia Today, Robert Bridge, “US deals Russia the 'anti-American' card Get short URL email to a friend print version Published: 02 April, 2012, 13:23 http://rt.com/politics/columns/bridge-too/us-russia-missile-bridge/
__One of the more distressing … missiles in some indeterminate future.__

That increases the probability of the impact
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lewis 4</span><span class="Underline"> - **a postdoctoral fellow in the … Methods of Cooperative Security Program**</span>
<span class="Underline">**(Jeffrey, “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios, Center for Defense Information Washington, D.C. July 2004 http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf**) </span>
<span class="Underline">News reports suggest that an … nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

Scenario 2- ISS

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Debris threatens the ISS- tracking capabilities aren’t adequate for maneuvering </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. News and World Report 3/26</span>- JASON KOEBLER “International Space Station Nearly Struck by Space Junk” March 26, 2012 [[http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2012/03/26/international-space-station-nearly-struck-by-space-junk]] **hnasser**
Sometime Friday afternoon, the __six …__ than 100 years, according to NASA.
SSA debris cleanup prevents the shutdown of the ISS
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination.
According to forecasts published by … __could also be rendered inoperable__.

ISS is key to commercial space flight- it’s the only viable testing ground for launch infrastructure
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hauser and John, 9</span> [Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]
__An interesting benefit__ that also __… break-through findings and innovations.__

**Only commercial space can prevent extinction.**
**Collins & Autino 10** – Professor of Life & Environmental Science @ Azabu University & Systems Engineer @ Andromeda Inc., Italy [Patrick Collins (Expert in the economics of energy supply from space) & Adriano Autino, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562]

<span class="Underline">7.2. High return in safety from extra-terrestrial settlement…..travel in space are another enormous wasted resource.</span>

Additionally, it solves scientific cooperation
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">IAF 9-</span> “The Sustainable Utilisation of the ISS Beyond 2015” Joint Session of the Human Space Endeavours and Space Operations Symposia Held at the 60th International Astronautical Congress, Daejeon, Republic of Korea Wednesday 14 October 2009 http://www.iafastro.org/docs/2009/ISS2015.pdf
__The ISS programme has been …__ achievable as an individual country

That solves extinction
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sackett 10</span> [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, former Chief Scientist for Australia, former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 “ 07), Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions, published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, [[http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]]]

Do __these 7 billion people have … **such as trade and security.**__

4- Cooperation

Scenario 1- Space Weapons
Perception of U.S. weaponization has been triggered- it’ll lead to an arms race in space
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China Daily 10-</span> “US spacecraft sparks arms race concerns” 2010-04-24 [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/world/2010-04/24/content_9770149.htm]] **hnasser**
__The latest spacecraft launched by …__ to avoid weaponizing outer space."

That collapses relations with Russia and China and causes extinction
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Krepon, ’04</span> [2004, Michael Krepon is a researcher for Stimson Center in Space Security and South Asia Programs “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space”,http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/Avoiding_the_Weaopnization_of_Space.pdf,
__If__ Rumsfeld’s __plans to weaponize … satellites with cheap space mines. 9__

The brink is now- countries perceive a lack of credibility in the NSP- a renewed interest in SSA solves
**Rendleman and Ryals 2k11** (Col. James Randleman is a J.D. and BS and was second lieutenant through the Air Force ROTC, Col. Robert Ryals is a BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School, “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed” February 2011, High Frontier Volume 7, No. 2, pg online
Interest in international space … __to fully embrace the concept.__

SSA solves international weaponization- it verifies all existing space treaties
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Baines and Cote 2009- </span>Phillip J. and Adam, Promising confidence- and security-building measures for space security http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2906.pdf Philip J. Baines is Deputy Director of the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Division at the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada. Adam Côté is a researcher in the same division and an MA candidate at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University.
<span class="Underline">Verification and governance are crucial … </span>arms race in outer space.

Even if weaponization is inevitable- the plan insures it’s never used
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nardon 7</span>- Laurence, Senior Research Fellow and the Head of the Space Policy Program at Ifri. She teaches at the Institut **d'études politiques of Paris, “Transparency Measures in Space?” Novembre 2007**
<span class="Underline">Sea, land and air are</span> … <span class="Underline">the United States and China.</span>


Solvency
The plan provides us with the best SSA data
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gaume et al 6- </span>“Joint Milli-Arcsecond Pathfinder Survey (J-MAPS) Mission: The Application of High Metric Accuracy Astrometry to Space Situational Awareness” Dr. Ralph Gaume, Mr. Bryan Dorland, Dr. David Monet, Dr. Kenneth Johnston United States Naval Observatory http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA498094
01 APR 2006 **hnasser**
__J-MAPS__ is not optimized … __of our highest value assets__.

That data will be shared- solves cooperation and debris
**Rose 11-** Frank A. Rose, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, “Panel on Space Situational Awareness” April 14, 2011 [[http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/160816.htm]] **hnasser**
__While many__ within the United … developed by U.S. commercial satellite operators.









=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 
[Same as Round 2]

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]