[[toc]]
==Cite Requests== 
For any cite requests, email one of us. We'll respond as soon as we can.
Chris (Aff)- cbarry14@kentdenver.org
Harry (Neg)- hjames14@kentdenver.org
=Affirmative= 

==**1AC- Wake**== 

**===Advantage One is Steel===**


====U.S. Steel Industry is on the decline – Not competitive enough to bet on==== 
**Reuters 8/23** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">("Steel sector downgraded; shares drop," August 23rd, 2012, http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/08/23/us-steel-shares-idINBRE87M0IP20120823)</span>
(Reuters) - Shares of U.S. steel producers fell on Thursday
AND
Steel Dynamics was 2.6 percent lower at %2412.72.


====Large Transportation Projects are key to rebound the Industry==== 
**Steel Times International 12** ("American Iron and Steel Institute calls for further Government intervention", 4/25/12, AD: 7/17/12, http://www.steeltimesint.com/contentimages/features/AISI-USAbriefing.pdf)

AISI is also calling for the US Congress to pass a new, robust,
AND
valuable jobs and generate the demand for steel, concrete and other materials.

**More Funding for Highways would specifically generate growth**
**American Iron and Steel Institute 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">("AISI Public Policy Priorities – Promoting a Pro-Manufacturing Agenda" February 2, 2012 http://www.steel.org/en/Public%20Policy/~~/media/Files/AISI/Public%20Policy/Agenda/AISI2012PublicPolicyAgenda%20_%20Final%20020212.ashx)</span>
Background. A globally competitive economy depends on an effective and efficient transportation infrastructure.
AND
downturn, has resulted in delays or stoppage of vital transportation projects nationally.


**And The Steel Industry is Independently Key to Preventing Hardpower Collapse**
**Buyer 7**
(Steve, Member of the House of Representatives, Before the International Trade Commission, Regarding the five-year sunset review on Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine (Inv. Nos. 701-TA-404-408 and 731-TA-898-908)
A robust steel industry is fundamental to the security and economic viability of this nation
AND
is fundamental to our ability to protect our very existence as a nation.



**====Auto Industry is Still Underperforming====**
**Reuters 8/1** ("U.S. auto sales remain soft in July" August 1st, 2012, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/08/01/us-auto-sales-idUSBRE8700OL20120801)
(Reuters) - Major automakers reported U.S. auto sales for July
AND
the overall industry will sell between 14 million and 14.5 million.


**====The Auto Industry will fall short in consumers due to CAFE====**
**Task 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron, head of the Daily Ticker, "Obama~’s CAFÉ Standards ~’Not a Good thing for Anybody,~’ Edmunds.com CEO Tells Congress" 13 October, 2011)</span>
"The big problem with CAFE is it potentially puts consumers and the car companies
AND
this was a radical thought" to some members of the House panel.

**====A Strong Steel Industry is key to helping the Auto Industry meet its goals- Lighter Weight Technology Helps Companies reach standards and tailor their needs to the consumer====**
**Gravat and Lorincz 7/27** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nancy, Vice President, Communications</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Iron and Steel Institute, and Deanna, Senior Director, Communications, Steel Market Development Institute, "Auto/Steel Partnership Celebrates 25 Years of Design Excellence; Will Play Key Role in Designs Aimed at Meeting Future Regulations" July 27th, 2012, http://www.steel.org/sitecore/content/Global/Document%20Types/News/2012/Auto%20-%20ASP%20Anniversary%20Release.aspx)</span>
The Auto/Steel Partnership~’s projects have helped to increase the number of steel options
AND
helped automakers enhance vehicle safety and fuel economy and improve design and manufacturing.


**====The auto industry is key to American hegemony====**
**Ronis 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[STATEMENT OF DR. SHEILA RONIS, DIRECTOR MBA/MS PROGRAMS, WALSH COLLEGE; VICE PRESIDENT, NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION, TROY, MICHIGAN CHINA~’S IMPACT ON THE U.S. AUTO AND AUTO PARTS INDUSTRIES HEARING BEFORE THE U.S.­CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION ONE HUNDRED NINTH CONGRESS SECOND SESSION _ July 17, 2006 [[http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2006hearings/transcripts/july_17/06_07_17_trans.pdf-http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2006hearings/transcripts/july_17/06_07_17_trans.pdf]]~~]</span>

What isn~’t understood is the reality that the auto industry affects DMSMS because the industrial
AND
industrial base matters, and we need to explore this issue as a nation


====Hard Power is key to preserving a peaceful international order and preventing great power wars==== 
**Kagan 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, and columnist for the Washington Post, "The importance of U.S. military might shouldn~’t be underestimated" February 2nd, 2012)</span>
These days "soft" power and "smart" power are in vogue (
AND
and where they need help the most, they will make other arrangements.




====Transition war makes all of your impacts inevitable==== 
**Brzezinski 04** <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Zbigniew Brzezinski (National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University), The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership, 2004, pg. 2-4)</span>
History is a record of change, a reminder that nothing endures indefinitely. It
AND
rendered all the more dangerous by the dissemination of weapons of mass destruction.

====Your turns are inevitable – the US will always attempt to engage in the international system – it~’s only a question of effectiveness==== 
**Shalmon and Horowitz 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dan Shalmon and Mike Horowitz, Orbis, Spring)</span>
It is important to recognize at the outset two key points about United States strategy
AND
/asymmetric threats are inevitable given America~’s role in the global order.24


**===Advantage Two is the Economy===**

====Poor Jobs Report show U.S. Economy is Teetering- Action is needed to Stop a Decline==== 
**Reuters 9/7** ("Grim jobs market confronts Obama, Fed" September 7^^th^^, 2012, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/09/07/us-usa-economy-idUSBRE88604Y20120907)

Jobs growth slowed sharply in August, setting the stage for the Federal Reserve to
AND
, but some had pushed their forecasts higher after upbeat data on Thursday.



**====Failure to repair infrastructure risks economic collapse - there is a short time frame for damage and it is killing economic competitiveness====**
**Halsey ~’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ashley Halsey III, Washington Post Staff Writer, "Decaying infrastructure costs U.S. billions each year, report says", [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/decaying-infrastructure-costing-us-billions-report-says/2011/07/27/gIQAAI0zcI_story.html-http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/decaying-infrastructure-costing-us-billions-report-says/2011/07/27/gIQAAI0zcI_story.html]], July 27, 2011)</span>

As Congress debates how to meet the nation~’s long-term transportation needs, decaying
AND
money that would otherwise be invested in innovation and expansion," Landau said.


**====Infrastructure is Deteriorating at an accelerated rate—any delay can cost up to ten times more for a repair====**
**Akerlof et. al ~’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George A. Akerlof, Koshland Professor of Economics University of California at Berkeley, The Hamilton Project, "Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America~’s Highways", http://www.hamiltonproject.org/papers/fix_it_first_expand_it_second_reward_it_third_a_new_strategy_for_ameri/, February 2011)</span>
The infrastructure on the U.S. Interstate Highway System is more than forty
AND
pavement maintenance, between %244 and %2410 is saved on rehabilitation.

====Three Internal Links to the Economy==== 

**1) Jobs and Competitiveness- ensures long-term resiliency**
**Boushey ~’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Heather Boushey is Senior Economist at American Progress, Center for American Progress, "Now Is the Time to Fix Our Broken Infrastructure", [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/aja_infrastructure.html-http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/aja_infrastructure.html]], September 22, 2011)</span>

Investing in infrastructure creates jobs and yields lasting benefits for the economy, including increasing
AND
decade lows, making it extraordinarily cost effective to make big investments today.


2) Congestion prices would resolve congestion and create more flexibility on roads

**Akerlof et. al ~’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George A. Akerlof, Koshland Professor of Economics University of California at Berkeley, The Hamilton Project, "Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America~’s Highways", http://www.hamiltonproject.org/papers/fix_it_first_expand_it_second_reward_it_third_a_new_strategy_for_ameri/, February 2011,)</span>

Price New and Existing Infrastructure Based On Use Congestion pricing can help governments better allocate
AND
and costs, they become more comfortable with user fees and pricing schemes.



====Traffic Congestion Kills Economic Growth==== 
**McMahon 11** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jeff, Forbes Contributor for Green Technology, and the Environment, "High-Speed Rail Critics Imperil Economic Growth, Bombardier President Says" http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2011/03/29/high-speed-rail-critics-imperil-economic-growth-bombardier-president-says/)</span>

Eventually, traffic congestion and greenhouse gas concerns will choke U.S. economic
AND
believe that sustainable mobility is at the heart of economic growth and development."


====3) A Federal Highway Bank Would Cut down on Waste and Maximize efficiency==== 
**Akerlof et. al ~’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George A. Akerlof, Koshland Professor of Economics University of California at Berkeley, The Hamilton Project, "Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America~’s Highways", http://www.hamiltonproject.org/papers/fix_it_first_expand_it_second_reward_it_third_a_new_strategy_for_ameri/, February 2011)</span>
We believe this should be a "highway" bank rather than a general ¶
AND
help ensure reliable networks and give travelers the option ¶ to avoid congestion.




**====Financial crises in the US spillsover - all markets are reliant on the US====**
**Harris and Burrows 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council~’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, "Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis," April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf-http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]])</span>

Such was the world the NIC foresaw as the crisis unfolded. Now, emerging
AND
reserves, such as Russia and South Korea, have been severely buffeted.


**Global economic crisis causes war—-strong statistical support**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, "Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises," in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

Existential risk comes first—even before moral reevaluation
Bostrom 02 <span style="font-size: 9pt;">~~[Nick Bostrom, philosopher at Oxford. nickbostrom.com, "Existential Risk"~~]</span>
These reflections on moral uncertainty suggest an alternative, complementary way of looking at existential
AND
lot of value. To do this, we must prevent any existential catastrophe


**===Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should create and fully fund the Federal Highway Bank.===**

**===Solvency===**

**Re-investment away from new programs towards maintenance resolves systemic economics losses without increasing spending**
**Akerlof et. al ~’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George A. Akerlof, Koshland Professor of Economics University of California at Berkeley, The Hamilton Project, "Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America~’s Highways", http://www.hamiltonproject.org/papers/fix_it_first_expand_it_second_reward_it_third_a_new_strategy_for_ameri/, February 2011)</span>

Fix It First: Restricting Gas Tax Revenue to Support and Enhance Existing Infrastructure To
AND
America on the right path toward repairing and updating our nation~’s aging infrastructure.


==Buddhism 1AC== 
====We start with the story of Franny and Zooey, from J.D. Salinger==== 

THOUGH brilliantly sunny, Saturday morning was overcoat weather again, not just topcoat weather, as it had been all week and as everyone had hoped it would stay for the big weekend
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Alone, </span>Franny lay quite still<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, looking at the ceiling. </span>Her lips began to move, forming soundless words, and they continued to move.

====<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And now you’ve met Franny. Salinger continues, in 1961, with Zooey.</span>==== 

THE facts at hand presumably speak for themselves, but a trifle more vulgarly, I suspect, than facts even usually do.
AND
Yay, team. I know I can do it. Just put me in, coach<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


====<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We think the tale of Franny and Zooey has several contentions that have relevance to the rhetorical artifact of Debate</span>==== 

====First – the Four Noble Truths==== 
====Desire creates the illusion of the self and the suffering that defines the human condition. Franny’s desire for spiritual enlightenment, Lane’s desire to fit in. Our only capacity is thus to affirm the extermination of this desire in the face of perpetual death and an impermanent reality==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dollimore 98 </span>(Jonathan Dollimore 1998 (Death, Desire and Loss in Western Culture, p 54-56.)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Siddhartha Gautama (560-477 BC) was a prince who, because of his high privilege, encountered suffering and death relatively late in life. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__Nirvana is the utter cessation of desire__ __or craving; it means extinction.__

====Second – Windmills==== 
====Just as Don Quixote fought windmills, Franny was fighting her school; Policies fight suffuring; Desire creates suffering, which motivates imaginary enemies and is the root cause of all wars.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khema 94</span> (Ayya Khema 1994 Buddhist monk, “All of us beset by Birth, Decay, and Death.” Buddhism Today, [[http://www.buddhismtoday.com/english/philosophy/thera/003-allofus-5.htm)/|http://www.buddhismtoday.com/english/philosophy/thera/003-allofus-5.htm)\]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If you have ever read </span>__Don Quixote__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, you'll remember that he </span>__was fighting windmills__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__There is no opening in us through which peace can enter. We have to start within and work outward. Unless that becomes clear__ __to us, we will always find another crusade.__

**Thus, Chris and I advocate that the United States federal government invest in the construction of a middle path through politics.**
==== ==== 
====A rejection of the cycle of desire allows us to have enlightened engagement with the world==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Davis 4</span> (Bret W. Davis, 2004 (Department of Japanese Philosophy Kyoto University “Zen After Zarathustra: The Problem of the Will in the Confrontation Between Nietzsche and Buddhism” The Journal of Nietzsche Studies 28 (2004) 89-138, accessed through muse.edu)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Vimalakirti Sutra tells us that the </span>__Buddha Lands are not somewhere else,__
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; yet </span>__emptiness essentially empties itself into and as the eventful suchness of phenomenal be-ings in their dependent co-origination.__


====Contention 2 is Framework==== 

====We must critically analyze conventional debate practices to teach students how to impact politics without being policymakers==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lundberg 10</span> (Christian O, Master of the House of Theory, Professor of Communications @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Tradition of Debate in North Carolina” in Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century By Allan D. Louden, p306-313)
__Because they are__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> also </span>__citizens, students will inevitably be put in the position__
AND
__the__**__crucial question__** **__of learning how to best evaluate which arguments to__** **__cite and rely upon from an__** **__easily accessible__** **__and veritable cornucopia of materials.__**


=Negative= 

==__**Security K**__== 
----

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Security create a will to power and a desire for protection from unknown threats. This need for certainty makes preventing violence impossible. There will always be external threats to world order.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 95</span> (James, Professor of Political Science at Brown University, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,” Chapter Two in //On Security// by Ronnie D. Lipschutz)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The will to power</span>, then, should not be confused with a Hobbesian perpetual //desire// for power. It <span style="font-size: 9pt;">can</span>, in its negative form, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">produce a reactive and </span>


<span style="font-size: 9pt;">A safe life requires safe truths. The strange and the alien remain unexamined, the unknown becomes identified as evil, and evil provokes hostility--recycling the desire for security. The "influence of timidity," as Nietzsche puts it, creates a people who are willing to subordinate affirmative values to the "necessities" of security: "they fear change, transitoriness: this expresses a straitened soul, full of mistrust and evil experiences</span><span class="underline">." <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note39|39]]</span></span>

We Must Not Ignore These Questions About Security—Continuation of the Status Quo Politics Risks the Totality of Violence and Human Extinction
Dillon 96(MICHAEL, SENIOR LECTURER IN POLITICS AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF LANCASTER, THE POLITICS OF SECURITY)
__: first, if such is their end, what__ __must their oriqins have been? Second, in the midst of all that is, in Precisely what does the creativity of__ __new beqinninqs inhere and how can it be preserved, celebrated and extended__

<span style="font-size: 9pt;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> One does not have to be persuaded of the destinal sendinq of Beinq, therefore, to be persuaded of the profundity - and of the profound danqer- of this the modern human condition</span>__.__</span>

Only By Reimagining Politics Through the Rejection of Security Can We Challenge these Problematic Constructions
Dillon 96(MICHAEL, SENIOR LECTURER IN POLITICS AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF LANCASTER, THE POLITICS OF SECURITY)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Reimagining politicsis</span>, of course, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">easier said than done</span>. <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Resistance to it</span> - especially in International Relations - nonetheless <span style="font-size: 9pt;">gives us a clue to one </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">This is a tall order, and not least because the political philosophy of continental thought cannot be brought to bear upon International Relations if the political thought of that thought remains largely unthought</span>. <P 2>


==__**Politics (elections)**__== 
----
====Obama will win now—Polls and Romney is Hype==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bartlett 9/7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bruce Bartlett, The Fiscal Times, “Why Barack Obama Will Win the Election Easily”, 9/07/12, </span>[[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Columns/2012/09/07/Why-Barack-Obama-Will-Win-the-Election-Easily.aspx#page2|**http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Columns/2012/09/07/Why-Barack-Obama-Will-Win-the-Election-Easily.aspx#page2**]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">9/7/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">That said, </span>I’m going to<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> go out on a limb and </span>predict that Barack Obama will win the election easily<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>at least in the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all-important </span>Electoral College<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This was most evident last week when Republican speakers at their convention were played up and their talking points repeated, as if they were changing the course of the election as they spoke. This week, they are doing the same for the Democrats.</span>

====Funding Transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they __fear wasteful planning__ and __don’t see the upside__.==== 

**Orski ‘12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears</span>

__Finding__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>__difficult challenge.__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> State DOTs and transit authorities take great pride in maintaining their systems in good condition and, by and large, they succeed in doing a good job of it. Potholes are rare, transit buses and trains seldom break down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between. </span>


====GOP victory leads to China bashing over multiple issues – causes sanctions==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gerstein 11 (Josh – Politico, “The GOP's China syndrome”, 11/22, </span>[[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1111/68952.html]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitt </span>Romney says America is at war with China — a “//trade war//” <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">over its undervalued currency</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. “</span>

What<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>Obama<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> administration </span>has done in //not labeling China as a ‘currency manipulator’// is correct,” said one<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> U.S. </span>business lobbyist<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> who closely follows U.S.-China trade issues and asked not to be named. “We’re very leery of a tit-for-tat situation,” he added, while acknowledging that the anti-China rhetoric is “good politics.”</span>
====That causes a US-China trade war – escalates to conflict and collapses global trade==== 
**Droke 10** (Clif, Editor – Momentum Strategies Report, “America and the Next Major War’, Green Faucet, 3-29, http://www.greenfaucet.com/technical-analysis/america-and-the-next-major-war/79314)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the current phase of relative peace and stability we now enjoy, </span>many are questioning when the next major war may occur<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and speculation is rampant as to major participants involved. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "</span>As one nation blocks trade<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, the nation that is hurt will surely retaliate and </span>the entire //world will suffer//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," writes Barker.</span>
====US-China war goes nuclear==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Johnson 1</span> (Chalmers, President – Japan Policy Research Institute, “Time to Bring the Troops Home”, The Nation, 4-26, http://ieas.berkeley.edu/cks/k12/girling_troops.doc)

In <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">East </span>Asia, the U<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>maintains massive<span style="font-size: 7pt;">and expensive </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">military </span>forces <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">poised </span>to engage in<span style="font-size: 7pt;">everything from </span>nuclear war<span style="font-size: 7pt;">to sabotage of governments that Washington finds inconvenient (for example, the government of former President Suharto in Indonesia, which in May 1998 the US government helped to bring down via troops its Special Forces had trained). </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Much as the 1914 assassination of the Austrian</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> crown </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">prince</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in Sarajevo </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">led to a war that no one wanted</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>a misstep<span style="font-size: 7pt;">in Taiwan </span>by any side could bring theU<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>and China into <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a </span>conflict <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that neither wants. </span>Such<span style="font-size: 7pt;">a war </span>would bankrupt theU<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates, deeply </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">divide Japan </span>and<span style="font-size: 7pt;">probably end in a Chinese victory, given that China is the world's most populous country and would be defending itself against a foreign aggressor. More seriously, it could </span>easily escalate into<span style="font-size: 7pt;">a </span>//nuclear holocaust//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


==__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">CPs</span>**__== 


Text: The United States Federal Reserve should expand its balance sheet to buy 600 billion dollars worth of United States long-term treasury bonds.


**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">It solves the economy—multiple reasons</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Gagnon 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria;"> – a visiting associate director at the Division of Monetary Affairs at the US Federal Reserve Board, PhD in economics from Stanford (Joe, Interview, 6/14/11, “Interview with Joe Gagnon on Quantitative Easing, its Criticisms and the Argument for QE3”, http://rortybomb.wordpress.com/2011/06/14/interview-with-joe-gagnon-on-quantitative-easing-its-criticisms-and-the-argument-for-qe3/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Since the Federal Reserve is buying other assets, does QE have the same kind of effect regarding interest rates?</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;"> You want to lower interest rates so people can refinance and repair their balance sheets. QE is the best way</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;"> we have of addressing Richard Koo’s concerns.</span>





[[include component="page" wikiName="Security" page="space.template.Footer" title="Security K"]]