[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
V- morality

Resolution questions difference between citizens accused of terrorism and noncitizens accused of terrorism

Neg must prove morally relevant distinction.

In the 21st century the notion of ‘society’ has been transformed beyond recognition by the growing transborder flows, and states can no longer preserve the illusion of being discrete and separate entities. Aas,


Katja Franko Aas (University of Oslo, Norway). “Analyising a world in motion: Global flows meet ‘criminology of the other.’” Theoretical Criminology 2007; 11; 283.

“The state and…stratifying global ordering.”

International focus on territoriality only exacerbates the problem allowing outsiders to outright ignore supposedly “internal” problems.
Gillespie, Thomas R. “Unwanted Responsibility: Humanitarian Military Intervention to Advance Human Rights.” Peace and Change, Vol. 18 No. 3, July 1993, pp. 219-246.

“A major component…a domestic matter.”

Today our very inability to clearly define the proper locus and scope of criminological and penal authority only bolsters injustice.
Katja Franko Aas (University of Oslo, Norway). “Analyising a world in motion: Global flows meet ‘criminology of the other.’” Theoretical Criminology 2007; 11; 283.

“Sharp distinctions between…war on terror.”

VC: recognizing the breakdown of the distinction between domestic and international legality

We must expand it to encompass more than just domestic issues or be rendered incapable to deal appropriately with national security threats.
Katja Franko Aas (University of Oslo, Norway). “Analyising a world in motion: Global flows meet ‘criminology of the other.’” Theoretical Criminology 2007; 11; 283.

“As boundaries between…the criminological discourse.”

Contention 1: Applying constitutional limitations on state power extraterritorially breaks down tensions between states. Rivlin,
Rivlin, Galia, “Constitutions Beyond Borders: The Overlooked Practical Aspects of the Extraterritorial Question” 2012


“the constitution may…its national borders.”

The constitution states that due process protections can be applicable to all persons.
David Cole (Georgetown University Law Center), Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?, March 2010, T. Jefferson L. Rev. 367-388 (2003)

“The fifth and…States including aliens.”

the denial of constitutional due process protections further entrenches the geopolitical mindset by increasing anti-American sentiments which deters international cooperation. [Gerard Fogarty [Colonel in Australian Army, U.S. Army War College] "Guantanamo Bay Undermining the Global War on Terror", Joint Force Quarterly. #39. http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/jfq_pubs/1239.pdf. 2012. ]

“U.S. prestige throughout…worldwide anti-Americanism.”

Contention 2: Extending to non-citizens the same due process rights given to citizen breaks down the distinction between domestic and international legality.
==Negative== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Constitution NC</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">V- proper US legal policy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The constitution is binding on the US, so proving an inconsistency is sufficient to negate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1C – there is a contradiction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Parrish, Austen L., “Sovereignty, Not Due Process: Personal Jurisdiction Over Nonresident, Alien Defendants.” Wake Forest Law Review, Vol. 41, No. 1, Spring 2006.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The case law … deepen as well</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tribunals CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The USFG will try noncitizens accused of terrorism in UN authorized military commissions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Competitive via net benefits, also doing both is double jeopardy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solvency: UN authorized tribunals are internationally legitimate + decrease anti-Americanism.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Gerard F.</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Forgarty 05</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, [Director General, Workforce Planning and Retention, Australian Defence Force], “Is Guantanamo Bay Undermining the Global War on Terror?”,</span>//<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Parameters</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, August 2005.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"UN authorized US...War on Terror"</span>

Advantages:
1. Relaxed rules of evidence
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">David B. Rivkin and Lee A. Casey (US government attorneys) “The use of Military Commissions in the War on Terror” (2006)</span>
"all evidence that...the United States."
2. no public trials
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11px;">David B. Rivkin and Lee A. Casey (US government attorneys) “The use of Military Commissions in the War on Terror” (2006)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11px;">"In military commissions...his civilian lawyers."</span>
States must avoid nat security breaches
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen G. Brooks, "Dueling Realisms (Realism in International Relations)," International Organization, Vol. 51, no. 3 (Summer 1997)</span>
3. military commissions are better at determining innocence or guilt
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Legislative Role of Juries Author(s): James P. Levine Source: American Bar Foundation Research Journal, Vol. 9, No. 3 (Summer, 1984), pp. 605-634Published by: Blackwell Publishing on behalf of the American Bar Foundation Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/828319 </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">"the ambiguity of...outcome they prefer."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Juries offcase</span>
Aff conceded to defending implementation
Contention: impossible to give noncitiznes jury of peers
Supreme Court ruling in //Strauder v. West Virginia// //<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/html/historics/USSC_CR_0100_0303_ZO.html]]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"The right to...which he holds."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Only citizens can serve on a jury</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">US Code section 1865 h</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/28/1865|//ttp://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/28/1865//]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"the chief judge...eighteen years old"</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">means AC is unimplementable</span>




=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
see Bronx Isis Davis-Marks for Meadows disclosure.
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]