[[toc]]
=Hyphen= 

=Minimum Wage= 

=Privatization= 

=Commissions= 
Text – the President of the United States should establish an interagency commission which should publish a biennial transportation review with bipartisan congressional consultation. The interagency commission should recommend that .... as a part of its first biennial transportation review.

Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">differ</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">from substantive...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>

Commissions avoid politics – seen as bipartisan.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Straus and Glassman -12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Matthew Eric Glassman, Analyst on the Congress, Jacob R. Straus, Analyst on the Congress, Congressional Commissions: Overview, Structure, and Legislative Considerations, February 15, 2012, CRS Reports, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40076.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout American history, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Congress has ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> report their findings and recommendations. </span>

=States= 
Text: The fifty states and relevant territories should ....

Devolution to the states solves- creates efficient labs of innovation which solves the case
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Utt 2012</span> (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Turn Back” Transportation to the States” Feb 7th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states) AS
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The federal transportation program ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> benefit from undeserved subsidies.</span>


=<span style="font-size: 120%;">NMS</span>= 

**Text: The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a National Military Strategy, and corresponding National Security Space Strategy and Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan that prioritizes** **<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">investment in Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion capabilities in the United States </span>****as necessary to achieve the national security goals of the United States.**

**The counterplan shapes policy**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Meinhart, 8</span> — Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College (Dr. Richard M., “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June 2008, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To meet these challenges, the ...</span>and ambiguous global security environment.


**NMS causes the plan to be enacted as __a result__ of the CP**
Riley, 94 — Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army (Don T., “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4/18/1994, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Should not </span>the N<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ational </span>M<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ilitary... from now begins today.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 18pt;">FERA</span>= 

**Text: The United States federal government should establish a Federal Employment Reserve Authority to maintain state branches charged with maintaining updated and prioritized lists of non-transportation public works projects, providing constant evaluation for financing and unemployment levels, and triggering financing when unemployment reaches trigger levels.**





**FERA is the most effective form of stimulus – overcomes political challenges and “shovel ready” barriers – better than single investments**

**Stephens 12** – Senior Editor and Policy Fellow at the Levy Economics Institute of Bard College (February 8, Michael, Multiplier Effect from The Levy Economics Institute, “The ‘Shovel Ready’ Excuse and a Fed for Public Works?,” [[http://www.multiplier-effect.org/?p=3527]], mrs)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The latest chapter in the “why ... of </span>a Shubik-style FERA.