[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
Rehab - "<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">To restore to good health or useful life, as through therapy and education."</span>

First, The origin of government is based on individuals coming together to centralize power under a sovereign to provide protections to its citizens.
Robin West. "Rights, Capabilities, and the Good Society." Fordham Law Review Vol. 69 Issue 5.

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">"Second, a recognition...duty of government"</span>


Second, The moral equality of persons demands a utilitarian approach to policy making.
Eric Rakowski <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">“Taking and Saving Lives” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), pp. 1063-1156 Published by: Columbia Law Review Association, Inc. Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960</span>

"On one side... to do so"


Third, absolute standards are logically incoherent.


Thus, the standard is maximizing expected well-being.


Prefer systematic empirical analysis as opposed to ridiculous impact scenarios.
CNN writes (Eric Schurenberg, Money Magazine, ‘Why the experts missed the crash’ http://money.cnn.com/2009/02/17/pf/experts_Tetlock.moneymag/index.htm)
"Yet we can't...tended to be."


Milkman and Wanberg describe the unique aspects of CBT and how it is better than other rehabilitation programs.
Harvey Milkman, Ph.D., Department of Psychology, Metropolitan State College of Denver, Denver, Colorado, Kenneth Wanberg, Th.D., Ph.D., Center for Addictions Research and Evaluation (CARE), COGNITIVE-BEHAVIORAL TREATMENT: A Review and Discussion for Corrections Professionals, May 2007

"Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT)...outcomes in society"


Landenberger and Lipsey conducted a meta-analysis study that concluded that CBT would reduce recidivism by 52%.
Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment, http://restorativejustice.pbworks.com/f/Landenberger_Lipsey.pdf, The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005

"When the corresponding...in this meta-analysis"


Also, the best possible rehabilitation program is CBT.
Milkman and Wanberg

"Traditional psychotherapy is... skills rehearsal exercises"


The meta-analytical study narrowed it down to 58 studies that achieved a specific quality.
Landenberger and Lipsey

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">"The search for... the present meta-analysis"</span>


The protocol for the meta-analysis was developed specifically for this system - prefer this to a generic protocol.
Landenberger and Lipsey

"Descriptive and outcome...12 months post-treatment"


This study took data from over 40 years of research.
Landenberger and Lipsey

"Computerized bibliography searches...none were missed"


There are four impacts off increased recidivism.
Wilson, Jane [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.] Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review, 2007. http://www.scribd.com/doc/19695235/Juvenile-Recidivism

"The effects of...cannot be understated"






==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 

Merriam-Webster dictionary defines intervene as:
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">“to interfere usually by force or threat of force in another nation's internal affairs especially to compel or prevent an action”</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/intervene</span>

The Preamble of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights contextualizes human rights as:
http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/index.shtml

"Whereas recognition of the inherent ... <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">of life in larger freedom"</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Internal:</span>
“of, relating to, or occurring on the inside of an organized structure (as a club, company, or state)”
http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/internal

Political:
“involving or charged or concerned with acts against a government or a political system”
http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/political

Processes:
“a series of actions or operations conducing to an end; especially : a continuous operation or treatment especially in manufacture”
http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/processes

I value justice as implied by the word “justified” in the resolution.
Merriam-Webster defines justified as “to show to have had a sufficient legal reason”.
Justice is contextualized by the actor in the resolution, which in this case is the United States. In the United States, the sole source of justice is derived from either the legal system or international agreements. In both cases, laws are passed through direct and/or indirect consensus of the people. Thus, we should look to laws and international legal agreements to determine what is just.


Legal agreements are binding to the government.

Garcia
(March 1, 2013; Michael John Garcia, Legislative Attorney, ‘International Law and Agreements: Their Effect Upon U.S. Law’ Congressional Research Service)

"Since its inception, the United ... with an international agreement’s provisions."

Additionally, governments cannot be obligated by codes of conduct such as morality that are specific to individuals for the following reasons:
1) States are not morally culpable because there are multiple actors in a state, meaning if a state were to be held morally culpable it would hold the individuals that comprise it accountable for an action they did not commit which is logically incoherent.
2) Individual actors within a state have different subjective obligations i.e. to protect their family, meaning that no singular obligation can be levied because it will inevitably conflict with others and thus lose its normative force.
3) The wills of multiple individuals is inconsistent, which makes it impossible to evaluate the intent of any action or attribute the action to a specific individual.
Thus the standard is adherence to international codes of conduct.


The ICISS specifies the idea of “responsibility to protect” from an important report from 2001.

ICISS
(ICISS – International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, 2001. ‘The Responsibility to Protect’ <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Report on the ICISS International Development Research Centre)</span>

"The report which we now present ... issues. It is desperately needed."

The Responsibility to Protect is outlined by the following:
The responsibility to protect embraces three specific responsibilities:

A. The responsibility to prevent: to address both the root causes and direct causes of internal conflict and other man-made crises putting populations at risk.

B. The responsibility to react: to respond to situations of compelling human need with appropriate measures, which may include coercive measures like sanctions and international prosecution, and in extreme cases military intervention.

C. The responsibility to rebuild: to provide, particularly after a military intervention, full assistance with recovery, reconstruction and reconciliation, addressing the causes of the harm the intervention was designed to halt or avert.
Any US intervention in the political processes of other countries that takes on these responsibilities are inevitably justified under the AC.
The United Nations also supports humanitarian intervention.

ICISS 2

"<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">The two situations in our ... and should take in response."</span>

When resolving legal conflicts, we should always look to the international agreements, since the only thing that could possibly overrule an international agreement is if the Constitution specifically bans the United States from taking this action.

Garcia 2

"Sometimes, a treaty or executive ... law via unilateral presidential action."



==Negative== 
I value morality, because morality is a guide to action, and the resolution asks a question of what a state should do.

**AND, The moral equality of persons demands a utilitarian approach to policy making.** 
**Rakowski**
“Taking and Saving Lives” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), pp. 1063-1156 Published by: Columbia Law Review Association, Inc. Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960
"On one side, it presses ... she must kill to do so."
Thus, the value criterion for this round is maximizing expected wellbeing.

Observation 1: When asking about justifications for state actions, we weigh the costs and the benefits for such an action. Experts can speculate all they want about what may happen due to some policy action, but the only way we can truly know what will happen is through looking at the past. When we look at the events in the history of the United States, we can find out which actions are justified. 

THUS,

**My sole contention is that in the empirical example of intervention in Cuba, there have been more utilitarian costs than benefits due to the intervention of the US.**

First, the Human Rights Watch contextualizes the human rights abuses occurring currently in Cuba.
HRW
[Human Rights Watch, an international non-governmental organization that conducts research and advocacy on human rights., Cuba, HRW, http://www.hrw.org/americas/cuba, 2013]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"Cuba remains the only country ... right to assemble and move freely."</span>

Second, CATO contextualizes US involvement in Cuba.
CATO
[CATO, The Cato Institute is a public policy research organization — a think tank – dedicated to the principles of individual liberty, limited government, free markets and peace. Its scholars and analysts conduct independent, nonpartisan research on a wide range of policy issues., Four Decades of Failure: The US Embargo Against Cuba, CATO, http://www.cato.org/publications/speeches/four-decades-failure-us-embargo-against-cuba, 8/12/05]

"The real dividing line in U.S. ... to American or regional security."

This means intervention in Cuba still applies under the topic, because the United States intervenes in Cuba in order to change its internal political processes, because such processes cause human rights abuses.

**Subpoint A:** The embargo on Cuba hurts the people of Cuba.
CATO 2
[CATO, The Cato Institute is a public policy research organization — a think tank – dedicated to the principles of individual liberty, limited government, free markets and peace. Its scholars and analysts conduct independent, nonpartisan research on a wide range of policy issues., Four Decades of Failure: The US Embargo Against Cuba, CATO, http://www.cato.org/publications/speeches/four-decades-failure-us-embargo-against-cuba, 8/12/05]
"If the goal of U.S. ... <span style="font-size: 12pt;">produced by their captive subjects."</span>

This is bad under utilitarianism because the embargo not only doesn’t stop Castro, as it was meant to do, but just makes the lives of the people worse under a utilitarian calculus. There are no net benefits to the action taken by the US, so it cannot be justified.

**Subpoint B:** The embargo also hurts the people of the United States.
CATO 3
[CATO, The Cato Institute is a public policy research organization — a think tank – dedicated to the principles of individual liberty, limited government, free markets and peace. Its scholars and analysts conduct independent, nonpartisan research on a wide range of policy issues., Four Decades of Failure: The US Embargo Against Cuba, CATO, http://www.cato.org/publications/speeches/four-decades-failure-us-embargo-against-cuba, 8/12/05]

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">"Cuban families are not the...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;"> and fertilizer the top exports."</span>
Thus, this means that if we stopped trying to intervene in other nations such as Cuba, we would also economically benefit as a nation.

Since intervention hurts every state in question, I urge a negative ballot.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]