cites


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A) Uniquness</span>**: <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Obama is ahead in the election right now but a Romney win is still possible. The election focus has shifted to foreign policy. Beaumont</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, 9/14</span>
"Romney is facing...middle income families"

Beaumont, Thomas, and Steve Peoples. "Foreign Policy at Forefront Is a Romney Hurdle." //Huffingtonpost.com//. Huffington Post, 14 Sept. 2012. Web. 14 Sept. 2012. <<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/huff-wires/20120914/us-romney-challenges/]]</span>>.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**B) Link:** Affirming is an unprecedented shift in status quo counter terrorism which is popular among the core of the Democratic party. Wilson and Cohen, Feb 9th</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"Obama's counterterrorism policy...use of drones"</span>

Wilson, Scott, and Jon Cohen. "Poll Finds Broad Support for Obama’s Counterterrorism Policies." //Washington Post//. The Washington Post, 09 Feb. 2012. Web. 18 Aug. 2012. <<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/poll-finds-broad-support-for-obamas-counterterrorism-policies/2012/02/07/gIQAFrSEyQ_story.html]]</span>>.)

C) Impact: <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Disad takes out all Aff solvency because the plan will be repealed</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Weisman 5/19</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"The House turned...voted against it"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Weisnman, Jonathan: “House Rejects an Effort to Limit Indefinite Detentions." //The New York Times//. The New York Times, 19 May 2012. Web. 14 Sept. 2012. <<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/19/us/politics/house-votes-to-preserve-a-power-of-indefinite-detention.html]]</span>>.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C) Internal Link</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">: If Romney wins the 2012 election he will collapse US- Russia relations and repeal missile control treaties</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Oppel</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">"Romney’s recent declaration...when he argued"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Oppel, 12 [Richard A., journalist for The New York Times, “Romney’s Adversarial View of Russia Stirs Debate,” </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/12/us/politics/romneys-view-of-russia-sparks-debate.html?_r=1&pagewanted=1&pagewanted=print]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, ALB]</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D) Impact</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> US-Russian relations </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">key to </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">stopping extinction. Allison and Blackwill</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">"Russia is a...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the U.S. economy"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Allison and Blackwill, 11 [Graham, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D., International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, 10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters,”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html]]</span>]</span>