[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Part 1 is Transportation Apartheid</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">TRANSPORTATION IS THE ANTAGONISTIC TOOL OF AMERICAN WHITE SUPREMACY. Beginning with the involuntary transportation of slaves, previous court rulings, the middle passage and the trail of tears, America would not exist without transportation. Transportation is a tool of social policy, removal, and repression that reverberates into the present as black people have moved from actual shackles on slave ships to economic shackles of transportation policy. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brenman ‘7</span>** [2007, Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, [[http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]]]

Three major kinds of infrastructure in the United States contribute to the separation of races
AND
, poor inner city schools, continuing job discrimination, and regressive taxes.

**THE U.S. SOCIETY REMAINS A RACIST SYSTEM, and though the ideals that give it legitimacy can be used by antiracist struggles to bring about its demise, no large-scale action has been taken to re-build this system of racism from the foundation up. This white supremacist framework has successfully incorporated “other Americans” of color.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Feagin 2k </span>**President of the American Sociological Association
Joe-Prof of Sociology, Univ. of Fla. Gainesville; “RACIST AMERICA: Roots, Current Realities and Future Reparations”; 235-236.

The liberal wing of the white elite has an inordinate fondness for setting up commissions
AND
unite for their own survival and periodically, for large-scale protest.

**CIVIL SOCIETY MAPS ITSELF BY THE RECONFIGURATION OF RIGHTS THROUGH FREEDOM – maintaining its position of ANTI-BLACKNESS. This constructs America’s benevolent hegemony of coherence. What is needed is the radical injection of society’s incoherence, the ‘wretched of the earth’ the politics of the black body with a gesture towards the disconfiguration of civil society**.
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wilderson ‘3</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of African American Studies at University of California, Irvine, 2003 (Frank, A. B. Dartmouth College (Government/Philosophy); MFA Columbia University (Fiction Writing); Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley (Rhetoric/Film Studies), “The Prison Slave as Hegemony's (Silent) Scandal”, Social Justice, Vol. 30 Issue 2, p18-27) blh</span>

Without the textual categories of dress, diet, medicine, crafts, physical ap­pearance
AND
reparation) but that must, nonetheless, be pursued to the death.

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">DISSENT AND DEBATE DEPEND ON SOCIAL CRITICISM. SHAMING MEASURES REGULATE THE VIABLE SPEAKING SUBJECT. WE MUST BRAVE THE STIGMA ASSOCIATED WITH DISIDENTIFICATION. </span>**
Debate and dissent DEPEND upon those who are critical of STATE POLICY and civic CULTURE.
They must BRAVE THE STIGMA that SEIZES up from the PUBLIC domain. QUELLING DISSENT
AND
. LIVES depend on our ability to CHALLENGE the STATE and CIVIL SOCIETY.
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Butler ‘4</span>** [2004, Judith Butler is a Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at U.C. Berkeley, “Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence”, pg. xix-xxi]
Dissent and debate depend upon the inclusion of those who maintain critical views of state
AND
as the ability to think critically and publicly about the effects of war.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">THE CRISIS OF WITNESSING puts the veracity of black testimony in doubt so that the crimes of slavery must be CONFIRMED by UNQUESTIONABLE AUTHORITIES and other WHITE OBSERVERS to be made VISIBLE.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">HARTMAN</span> Associate Professor of English @ UC BERKLEY <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">1997</span>
Saidiya V.- “SCENCES OF SUBJECTION: Terror, Slavery, and Self-Making in Nineteenth-Century America”; pp. 20-21
As well, we need ask why the site of suffering so readily lends
AND
the auction block, performing before the master, and other popular amusements.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Part 2 is Antagonism</span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lane and I walk away from America. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">We affirm the resolution as a fanatical performative agitation substantially increasing our intellectual investment in the narratives of transportation infrastructure. </span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Debate has become an intellectual forum that reifies the maintenance and purity of white civil society. Whiteness within the debate relegates the black body as invisible by focusing on the mind over the body. Blackness becomes a stain upon academic discourse.</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Reid-Brinkley 2k8</span>** [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE"page 15]

Particularly, I am interested in the speaking body of the other, that body
AND
the racial signification process in educational spaces and public discourse about those spaces.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**OUR PERSONAL AGENCY SHOULD NOT BE USED AS A VEHICLE OF FAITH FOR FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SOLVENCY**.</span>
**Rodriguez ‘8**
Dylan Rodriguez 2008 [Assistant Professor at University of California Riverside, //Abolition Now!// p.93-100]

We are collectively witnessing, surviving, and working in a time of unprecedented state
AND
, every desperate act, and every attack aborted or drowned in blood.”

**Our ethics of refusal to blindly pledge allegiance to the flag is the first and most critical step towards liberation. We must create an alternate political structure that must refuse to grant credence to the current structure of governance and must be rooted in the ethics of refusal**
**Martinot ‘5**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Steve, adjunct professor at San Francisco State University, “Pro-Democracy and the Ethics of Refusal,” Socialism and Democracy, Vol. 19, No. 2</span>
In a system in which humans have been rendered secondary or irrelevant, a different
AND
the corruption has become so overt that there is nowhere else to turn.

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The creation and acceptance of common ethico-political principles TRANSFORMS the very nature of conflict making adversarial discussion compatible with PLURALISM, LIBERTY, and EQUALITY thus forcing the EXCLUSION of those who do not share the ETHICO-POLITICAL VALUES of the nation.</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Olson</span>,** Associate professor of politics and international affairs, Northern Arizona University, **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2008</span>**
Joel; “Friends and Enemies, Slaves and Masters: Fanaticism, Wendell Phillips, and the Limits of Democratic Theory”; PG: 7-8
The challenge for Mouffe, then, is to develop a politics that creates this
AND
its basic institutions into question as legitimate adversaries’’ b(2005a, 120)

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">We can no longer place our faith in a politics of inclusion – A fanatical performative agitation renders neutrality impossible.</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ross 2k</span>** Assc. Director of the Center for AfroAmerican and African Studies @ U Mich 2000 Marlon-Professor of English; Pleasuring Identity, or the Delicious Politics of Belonging; NEW LITERARY HISTORY, Vol. 31, No. 4, Is There Life after Identity Politics?; Autumn, 2000; pp.827-850.

From the perspective of a face-down between pro-identity and anti-
AND
as it relates to an economy of pleasure largely unexamined in identity theory.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]