[[toc]]
For aff questions email viviennep1218@gmail.com
For neg questions email rkezios@gmail.com

Any cites past the 1ac/1nc will be put up at request
=Affirmative= 

==NextGen== 
===1AC Berkeley=== 
====Plan==== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in loan guarantees for the Next Generation Air Transportation System Equipage Fund.**

**NextGen is a priority but funding has not been allocated yet**
**Bogdan 1/16** (2013. Jennifer. Staff Writer for the Press of Atlantic City. “US Rep Frank LoBiondo appointed to chair of House Aviation Subcommittee”. [[http://www.pressofatlanticcity.com/news/breaking/u-s-rep-frank-lobiondo-appointed-to-chair-of-house/article_4888f4b0-5ff0-11e2-9166-0019bb2963f4.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pismarov)</span>
Since 1997, LoBiondo has been
AND
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">top priority for the nation.”</span>

**__Federal__** **loan guarantees for the Equipage Fund facilitate p3’s that encourage aviation industries to invest in NextGen**
**Carey 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Bill, senior editor with Aviation International News, based in Washington, D.C. He covers the airline and defense industries as well as business aviation. “Public-Private Partnerships Among Proposals to Advance NextGen” July, [[http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2011-07-27/public-private-partnerships-among-proposals-advance-nextgen]], ken)</span>
The vision of the satellite-based, data-centric, network-enabled
AND
, I could really kick start this by lowering the cost of capital.”

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The plan establishes a model to bypass budget cuts and finance other NextGen initiatives within 7 years</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">DiMascio 11 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Jen, Defense writer @ POLITICO, “NextGen Salvation?”, 7/30/11, Aviation Week & Space Technology, EBSCO)</span>
Partnerships Could Smooth Budget Turbulence Facing NextGen Public-private partnerships could ease sting of
AND
have to own everything that has to do with transportation," Dyment says.

====Aerospace==== 
**Advantage 1 is Aerospace**

**Status quo procurement policy ensures collapse of manufacturing**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Albaugh 11</span> -<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and member of the International Academy of Astronautics,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Jim, 4/27, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace”, Speech to the 10th Annual Aviation Summit US Chamber of Commerce, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/newsroom/speeches_testimony/]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Pismarov)</span>
Today we take America’s industrial base for granted, but we do so at our
AND
program since the 777, and we paid the price as a result.


**The plan’s investment spills over into aerospace development and jobs**
**NEXA, ’11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (“Nextgen Equipage Fund: Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Reserves,” April, p.3)//CT</span>

Economic impact is calculated by NEXA Advisors using a widely accepted input<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>output method
AND
many of the economic and job benefits identified herein will be lost permanently.

**Our aerospace sector is on the brink now - The unique ripple effect along with ATC modernization maintains aerospace workforce, innovation and the ability to double exports**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Blakey 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Marion, president and CEO of the Aerospace Industries Association, "US Tech Lead in Jeopardy”, Aviation Weekly, EBSCO. Pismarov)</span>
But with budget worries crowding out all other concerns in Washington these days, this
AND
Import Bank to support these sales, and revising our export control system.


**That’s key to US competitiveness and economic leadership**
**Weller and Reidenbach 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Dr. Christian E., Senior Fellow at American Progress and an associate professor of public policy at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Luke, Research Assistant for Economic Policy at American Progress “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion”, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/report/2011/02/09/9049/the-case-for-strategic-export-promotion/]], ken)</span>
The United States faces enormous economic obstacles in the immediate future as it recovers from
AND
manufacturing industry can boost U.S. growth well into the future.

**Slow growth leads to nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, ‘11</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Zalmay</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Khalilzad</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, “ The Economy and National Security”, 2-8-11, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024]</span>
We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth.
AND
to work our way through the kind of crisis that we face today.


**US economic leadership solves protectionism and Chinese mercantilism**
**Suominen 12**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Kati, Fellow at German Marshall Fund, 7-6-’12 “America the Absent: Why is the U.S. afraid to lead the global economic recovery?” Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent)</span>
The release of another weak U.S. jobs report this Friday, July
AND
serves our national interests. But such a world is America's to make.

**Protectionism causes nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Michael </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Panzner 8** </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Faculty Member at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase) 2008 Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, p. 137-138</span>
Rising angst will also wreak havoc with links among markets, financial systems, economies
AND
between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.

**Independently, Chinese mercantilism crushes underdeveloped economies**
**Rodrik 10** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Dani, Professor of International Political Economy at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government and a leading scholar of globalization and economic development. “Is Chinese Mercantilism Good or Bad for Poor Countries?” [[http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/is-chinese-mercantilism-good-or-bad-for-poor-countries-]], ken)</span>
CAMBRIDGE – China’s trade balance is on course for another bumper surplus this year.
AND
Chinese mercantilism is, at best, temporary growth of the wrong kind.

**They’re key to the global economy**
**Gurría****10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Angel, Secretary-General of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development “Economy : Does the developing world hold the key to building a stronger global economy?” June, [[http://www.oecd.org/document/60/0,3746,en_21571361_44315115_45540028_1_1_1_1,00.html]], ken)</span>

The world’s economic centre of gravity is changing. Global GDP growth over the last
AND
base – all these factors can create substantial welfare benefits for the world.

**Great power war**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jedediah </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Royal**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**2010**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

**Failure of underdeveloped economies leads to deforestation – crushes biodiversity**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jeffrey </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sachs</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, director of the Center for International Development and Galen L. Stone Professor of International Trade in the Department of Economics at Harvard, Summer 20</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">01</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, The Washington Quarterly</span>
Economic collapse and state failure are major contributors to environmental degradation of strategic concern to
AND
and Venezuela, suffering under severe economic stress, if not outright failure.

**extinction**
**WATSON 2006** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17, http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html)</span>
The facts are clear. More plant and animal species will go through extinction within
AND
and with it the horrendous and mind numbing specter of massive human destruction.
====<span style="font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; line-height: 1.5;">Radio Astronomy</span>==== 
**Advantage 2 is radio astronomy**

**It currently shares frequency bands with aviation radar and corrupts deep space observations**
**Fisher et al** **6** (Brian D. Jeffs, Weizhen Lazarte, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Brigham Young University, and J. Richard Fisher, National Radio Astronomy Observatory “Bayesian Detection of Radar Interference in Radio Astronomy” [[http://www.et.byu.edu/~bjeffs/publications/Jeffs_RS_06.pdf]], ken)
L-Band observations at the Green Bank Telescope (GBT) and other __radio__
__AND__
__path, **echoes from aircraft hundreds of kilometers away can corrupt sensitive observations**.__


**Aviation radar is the only truly destructive form of interference**
**Porko 11** (Jukka-Pekka Goran, AALTO UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Department of Radio Science and Engineering “Radio frequency interference in radio astronomy” May, [[https://aaltodoc.aalto.fi/bitstream/handle/123456789/3739/urn100489.pdf?sequence=1]], ken)
The radio frequency interferences can be divided into two classes, external and internal RFI
AND
all the reserved bands for the air- and space borne radio traffic.


**Laws of physics dictate that __practical applications from radio astronomy cannot be realized if there is spectrum interference__**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Lang et al no date** (David B. Lang, U.S. National Research Council, The National Academies, </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Paul A. Vanden Bout, National Radio Astronomy Observatory, Jeffrey Piepmeier, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, “ Spectrum Management Activities of the U.S. National Research Council’s Committee on Radio Frequencies” </span>[[http://www.ursi.org/proceedings/procGA08/papers/E05p7.pdf]]<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, ken)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As passive users of the spectrum, radio astronomers have no control over the frequencies </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as for the practical applications from the information learned and the technologies developed. </span>


**Plan solves – makes bandwidth use more efficient and shifts to satellite-based navigation**
**Neville et al 8** (Dan Macchiarella, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Aeronautical Science and Kelly, Ph.D., is a visiting Associate Professor of Human Factors and Systems, Both are writing for Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University “User Centered SWIM (System Wide Information Management) Structure for the Future” National Airspace System (NAS) Transformations [[http://www.avmgt.com/AMA/AMA_Publications/Entries/2008/10/3_System_Wide_Information_Management_Human_Factor_Issues_files/User%20Centered%20SWIM%20for%20the%20Future-3OCT08.pdf]], ken)
Individual users, within an optimized SWIM environment, will have differing bandwidth needs
AND
key user performance areas (e.g., decision making and satisfaction).

**Shift to satellite navigation avoids interference – but absent the plan, receiver destruction is inevitable**
**FCC 12** (Federal Communications Commission “FCC 12-72” July, [[http://siemic.com/social_media/update/FCC-12-72A1.pdf]], ken)
NRAO states that __interference is inevitable and the **destruction of radio astronomy receivers is a**__
**__AND__**
beam and/or at considerable distances, even in wet air.23

**Observations from radio astronomy key to avoid asteroid collision**
Robert **Preston, 2** (RAND Corporation, Space Weapons Earth Wars,
http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1209/MR1209.appc.pdf)

__Diverting the course of an asteroid requires only a small__ Δv [__change in velocity__
AND
fragmentation for asteroids chosen to achieve blast, rather than impact, effects.


**Asteroids cause extinction – o/w timeframe and probability**
**Brownfield ‘4** - (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: [[http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092]])
__Left to its own fate__ -- __on impact -- this Rock would release the kinetic__
__AND__
design,__would be like planning to bring a knife to a gunfight__.


===**<span style="font-size: 1.066em; line-height: 1.5;">Old Advantages</span>**=== 
====<span style="font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; line-height: 1.5;">Terrorism</span>==== 
**Advantage 2 is terrorism**

**Plan secures the aviation system – collaboration and awareness**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">JPDO 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joint Planning Development Office, November, “Integrated Air Surveillance Concept of Operations”, [[http://www.jpdo.gov/library/20120215_Integrated_Air_Surveillance_ConOps_Endorsed.pdf]] Pismarov)</span>
A combination of newly developed, deployed, or planned procedures and technological advances for
AND
and track aerial objects persistently, within and outside of the United States.

**Scenario 1 is Nuclear Terrorism**

**Nuclear terrorism is coming- all obstacles can be overcome**
**Bunn et al, 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism, Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Colonel Yuri Morozov Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy. Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. </span>[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf|__http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pismarov)</span>
Nuclear terrorism is a real and urgent threat. Urgent actions are required to reduce
AND
that theintention to acquire and use nuclear weapons is as strong as ever.

**Airplanes will be the next target**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">McLay et al. 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Assistant Professor Department of Statistical Sciences and Operations Research, Laura A. McLay, Assistant Professor Department of Statistical Sciences and Operations Research, et al., Rebecca A. Dreiding· Garrett L. Howe, 11, “Rethinking the encounter probability for direct-to-target nuclear attacks for aviation security,” J Transp Secur (2011) 4:247–280, [[http://rd.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12198-011-0070-7]])</span>
A nuclear attack within the United States is one of the most pressing terrorism threats
AND
a direct-to-target attack (Fritelli 2005, Bakir 2008).


**Nuke terrorism causes extinction.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rhodes 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Richard, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award. “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety” 12-14, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety</span>
The response was very different among nuclear and national security experts when Indiana Republican Sen
AND
nothing to do with those attacks in the name of sending a message.


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Scenario 2 is Cyber terror**</span>
**Attacks coming now**
**Reed 10/11**<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">John, Reports on the frontiers of cyber war and the latest in military technology for Killer Apps at Foreign Policy, "U.S. energy companies victims of potentially destructive cyber intrusions", 2012, killerapps.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/10/11/us_energy_companies_victims_of_potentially_destructive_cyber_attacks</span>
Foreign actors are probing the networks of key American companies in an attempt to gain
AND
power plants infected by Stuxnet very far away from Iran," Kaspersky said.

**ATC is uniquely vulnerable absent the plan’s federal system reform**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Sclar 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Elliott Sclar, Director of graduate programs in Urban Planning at Columbia, the Louis Brownlow Award for the Best Book of 2002 from the </span>National Academy of Public Administration and the 2001 Charles Levine Prize from the International Political Science, 03, “Pitfalls of Air Traffic Control Privatization,” National Air Traffic Controllers Association [[http://www.inthepublicinterest.org/sites/default/files/PitfallsofATCPrivatization.pdf]] Pismarov)
Secondly and more importantly, because of safety and security considerations, it would be
AND
without the necessary protocols and procedures in place to protect the public's interest.

<span class="Heading4Char">The US would retaliate – ensures nuclear escalation </span>
<span class="Heading4Char">Lawson, 9</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> [Sean, assistant professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Utah 5/13/Sean, “Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict,” http://www.seanlawson.net/?p=477]</span>
Introduction At a time when it seems impossible to avoid the seemingly growing hysteria over
AND
lethal agent is regarded with the same or greater seriousness.” [7]

====<span style="font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; line-height: 1.5;">Warming</span>==== 
**Advantage 1 is Warming:**

**It’s __real__ and __anthropogenic__ – must avoid tipping point to prevent __extinction__**
**Morgan 9 -** professor of Current Affairs at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Dennis Ray, professor of Current Affairs at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, Muse, ken)</span>

As horrifying as the scenario of human extinction by sudden, fast-burning nuclear
AND
Russian roulette while time increasingly stacks the cards against our chances of survival?


**Prefer scientific __consensus__ and peer __review__ – their authors are __funded by__ the __fossil fuel__ industry**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Davies 8 - </span>Author and Geophysicist at the Australian National University<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Geoff, Author and Geophysicist at the Australian National University, Science Alert, “Why listen to scientists?” [[http://www.sciencealert.com.au/opinions/20081106-17474.html]], ken)</span>
Professor Don Aitkin’s recent promotion of the “sceptical” view of global warming and
AND
that his judgments from two or three decades ago are being broadly vindicated.

**The US is key – worst carbon emitter**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">World Resources Institute 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“International Negotiations on Climate Change: Key Questions & Answers”, Dec, [[http://pdf.wri.org/factsheets/factsheet_interational_climate_change_negotiations.pdf]])</span>

Why is U.S. leadership critical? No single country can solve the
AND
2008 and South Korea will set a greenhouse gas reduction goal in 2009.


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Specifically, US Aviation is the dirtiest industry in the world – absent the plan, a 60% reduction in emissions is impossible** </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Sewill 5 -** vice president of the British Trust for Conservation Volunteers</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brendon, vice president of the British Trust for Conservation Volunteers, “Fly Now, Grieve Later”, [[http://www.aef.org.uk/downloads/FlyNowFull.pdf]], ken)</span>
Aviation is the industry with the fastest growing contribution to climate change. Between 1990
AND
is for us to set an example to the rest of the world.


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Immediate action key to prevent destruction of agriculture, the Amazon, and biodiversity - comparative evidence**</span>
**Strom, 7 -** University of Arizona planetary science emeritus professor, studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center at NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert,“Hot House”, p.211-16) </span>

The future consequences of global warming are the least known aspect of the problem.
AND
Russia, and to the coast of South Africa along the Indian Ocean.

**__Amazon__** **destruction, __Bio-diversity__ loss, and __Agriculture__ crisis are 3 independent scenarios for extinction**
**Takacs 96** - Ph.D. in science and technology studies @ Cornell, Professor of Environmental Humanities, Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy, California State University, Monterey Bay <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, The Idea of Biodiversity: Philosophies of Paradise, p. 200-1] EL</span>

"Habitat destruction and conversion are eliminating species at such a frightening pace that extinction
AND
end of the next century not with a bang but a whimper. 14

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Air pollution causes extinction</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Driesen 3</span> - Associate Professor at Syracuse University Law <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, Fall/Spring, Lexis)</span>

Air pollution can make life unsustainable by harming the ecosystem upon which all life depends
AND
health and the environment, air quality implicates both of these concerns. 5



**__Federal implementation__ of NextGen is key to reducing aircraft __emissions__ and __pollution__**
**Dillingham 8** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Gerald L., Ph.D. Director, Physical Infrastructure Issues, Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Aviation, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, House of Representatives, Government Accountability Office, “AVIATION AND THE ENVIRONMENT: NextGen and Research and Development Are Keys to Reducing Emissions and Their Impact on Health and Climate” [[http://www.gao.gov/assets/120/119976.pdf]], ken)</span>
Currently, aviation contributes a modest proportion of total emissions in the United States,
AND
could affect the financial solvency and competitiveness of U.S. airlines.


**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Federal commitment to NextGen Equipage Fund key to get the industry on board </span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gibbons 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Glen. editor and publisher of Inside GNSS and the managing partner of Gibbons Media & Research LLC, internationally-known expert and commentator on the development, policies and programs of the global navigation satellite systems, Air Traffic Control Modernization: FAA, NextGen, GNSS, and Avionics Equipage. April 30, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2582]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pismarov)</span>
Consequently, the temptation will be for strong for aircraft operators to delay purchase and
AND
reassurance that they system benefits will be¶ there when the avionics are.

====Aerospace==== 
**Advantage 2 is Aerospace**

**It’s is failing now**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Albaugh 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and member of the International Academy of Astronautics,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim, 4/27, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace”, Speech to the 10th Annual Aviation Summit US Chamber of Commerce, [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/newsroom/speeches_testimony/]] Pismarov)</span>
Today we take America’s industrial base for granted, but we do so at our
AND
program since the 777, and we paid the price as a result.



**Scenario A is the economy**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Aerospace is the linchpin of US jobs and exports </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Trupo 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mary, Senior Advisor and Director of Public Affairs U.S. Department of Commerce International Trade Administration, “AEROSPACE INDUSTRY IS CRITICAL CONTRIBUTOR TO U.S. ECONOMY ACCORDING TO OBAMA TRADE OFFICIAL AT PARIS AIR SHOW”, 6/21, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://trade.gov/press/press-releases/2011/aerospace-industry-critical-contributor-to-us-economy-062111.asp]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pismarov)</span>
“The U.S. aerospace industry is a strategic contributor to the economy
AND
S. exporters of aerospace products are small and medium-sized firms.


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Now is key – we’re being outpaced by Chinese aerospace </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hernnstadt 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Owen, Director of Trade and Globalization director of the Trade and Globalization Department, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, [[http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html]] Pismarov)</span>
Aerospace is an especially important industry for a nation's economic and physical security, and
AND
aviation sector intends to pursue a principal role in commercial aircraft manufacturing."11

**That causes Chinese __mercantilism__ – destroys global economic cooperation __and__ risks protectionism**
**Posen 9** – Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)

In the postwar period, US power and prestige, beyond the nation's military might
AND
rise to the challenge, it should concentrate on the following priority measures.

**Protectionism causes nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Michael </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Panzner 8** </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Faculty Member at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase) 2008 Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, p. 137-138</span>
Rising angst will also wreak havoc with links among markets, financial systems, economies
AND
between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.



**Global economic crisis causes great power war**
Jedediah <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Royal**</span> (Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**2010**</span>, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

**Scenario 2 is Space Debris**

<span class="Heading4Char">Aerospace key to solve it </span>
<span class="Heading4Char">National Aerospace Week 11</span>(<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> September 11-17, 2011. “Aerospace and Defense: Second to None,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]] Pismarov)</span>
Space is certainly becoming more contested, congested and competitive. More than 60 nations
AND
our scientific knowledge and inspire our youth to pursue engineering and science disciplines.


**Space Debris cause US-Russian nuclear war**
**__Lewis 4__**__(Jeffrey, Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, </span>[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space
AND
or an accident – confidence collapses and the result is panic and escalation.

**That’s extinction in 30 mins**
**Mintz 1**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – writer for the American Prospect (Morton, February 26, “Two Minutes to Launch,” The American Prospect, __http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch__,) </span>
Hair-trigger alert means this: The missiles carrying those warheads are armed and
AND
would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."

====Drones==== 
**Advantage two is Drones**

**US increase in drones is inevitable**
**World Meets 10/26** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2012. News website on Foreign Policyin collaboration with “the Guardian”-provides political news. “Romney or Obama: Pakistan Leaders will Pay Price for Continued US Drone Attacks” </span>[[http://www.worldmeets.us/thefrontierpost000096.shtml#.UI3dM0KVgzU%23ixzz2AeDxLyv0|__http://www.worldmeets.us/thefrontierpost000096.shtml#.UI3dM0KVgzU#ixzz2AeDxLyv0__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pismarov)</span>
What is the impact of the public's anti-drone marches and protestations by the
AND
rights groups have carried out, this tragic loss is intolerable and colossal.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Status quo drones are inaccurate– that causes more insurgency in the Pakistan</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bergen and Tiedemann 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(July/Aug. 2011, Peter Bergen and Katherine Tiedemann, “Washington’s Phantom War,” Foreign Affairs,[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67939/peter-bergen-and-katherine-tiedemann/washingtons-phantom-war?page=show]]Pismarov)</span>
What is clear is that the drone strikes have not deterred Western would-be
AND
those who carry out suicide attacks in Afghanistan come from these regions.



**Plan is key to effective drone operations globally – 3 reasons**

**First, robust and dynamic training**
**Owens, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bill. Representative, [H.A.S.C. No. 112-76], THE FUTURE OF NATIONAL DEFENSE AND THE UNITED STATES MILITARY TEN YEARS AFTER 9/11: PERSPECTIVES OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE LEON PANETTA AND CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, ONE HUNDRED TWELFTH CONGRESS FIRST SESSION, HEARING HELD OCTOBER 13, 2011, lexis, Pismarov)</span>
Mr. OWENS. Secretary Panetta, as we draw down forces overseas, training
AND
Guard needs to be able to fly from joint civil military use airports.

**Second, testing is key to innovation and countermeasures against advanced air defense systems**
**Sirak, 10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Michael C. Sirak. Senior editor @ air force magazine, ISR revolution, air force magazine, June, [[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/June%202010/0610ISR.aspx]] Pismarov)</span>
There is also a new DOD push to integrate ISR professionals in the acquisition community
AND
are going to be falling from the sky like rain,” said Deptula.

**Third, NextGen creates war-gaming that would increase capabilities of deterring conflicts and military strategy**
**Nix 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bill Nix. Associate with the Booz Allen Hamilton’s Civil Aviation Team. Provides civil and military air traffic control support for the DoD and the FAA. “NextGen Wargaming and UAS Integration Exploration” [[http://www.boozallen.com/media/file/NextGen_Wargaming_and_UAS_Integration_exploration.pdf]] Pismarov)</span>
Wargaming is a powerful process for imagining the future. Wargames allow participants to understand
AND
UAS wargame structure would include objectives, key questions, and intended results.


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Successful use of drones is key to keeping down insurgency in Pakistan</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bergen & Tiedemann 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(July/Aug. 2011, Peter Bergen and Katherine Tiedemann, “Washington’s Phantom War,” Foreign Affairs, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67939/peter-bergen-and-katherine-tiedemann/washingtons-phantom-war?page=show]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Pismarov)</span>

__Despite the drone program's shortcomings, it is likely to continue-__ put simply
AND
__said, the drone program is “the only game in town.”__





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Growing insurgency in Pakistan causes an increase in nuclear terrorism</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Pitt 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5/8/09, William, New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence”. “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]] Pismarov)</span>

__America's attention has for several years been focused on the ongoing conflicts in Iraq__
__AND__
__to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.__


**Pakistan is on the brink of collapse now**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mehdi 1/12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(2012. Haider. Writer that is UAE-based academic policy analyst, conflict resolution expert, and the author of several books on Pakistan and foreign policy issues. Doctorate and Masters Degree from Columbia University. “The Anatomy of Self-Reliance” </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.nation.com.pk/pakistan-news-newspaper-daily-english-online/columns/12-Jan-2012/the-anatomy-of-self-reliance]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Pismarov)</span>

The word “anatomy” is used here to mean a structure and a framework
AND
calamity! Of course, “nothing in this world happens by chance!”




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Collapse supercharges global terrorism</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Blankey 09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Tony. Visiting Senior Fellow in National-Security Communications at the Heritage Foundation. " A Nuclear Talibanistan?,” 4/15, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/04/15/a_nuclear_talibanistan_48923.html]] Pismarov)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Now another perception shift is starting to take hold: </span>__The increasing instability of__
__AND__
__left Afghanistan for their new stronghold in Quetta, the capital of Pakistan's Baluchistan__

**Nuclear terrorism causes extinction.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rhodes 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award. “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety” 12-14, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety]] Pismarov)</span>

The response was very different among nuclear and national security experts when Indiana Republican Sen
AND
nothing to do with those attacks in the name of sending a message.



**Federal loan guarantees for the NextGen Equipage fund are key to public-private partnerships – accelerates solvency**
**Carey 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Bill, senior editor with Aviation International News, based in Washington, D.C. He covers the airline and defense industries as well as business aviation. “Public-Private Partnerships Among Proposals to Advance NextGen” July, [[http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2011-07-27/public-private-partnerships-among-proposals-advance-nextgen]], ken)</span>
The vision of the satellite-based, data-centric, network-enabled
AND
, I could really kick start this by lowering the cost of capital.”



==Mayport== 
===Plan=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Plan: the United States federal government should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure necessary to sustain a home port for a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at Naval Station Mayport.**</span>
===Navy: Heg=== 

**Advantage 1 is Navy:**

**The Navy is upgrading Naval Station Mayport now but has canceled funding necessary to permanently base carriers — our fleet remains concentrated at Naval Station Norfolk**
**THE HILL 6-27**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">-2012 (“Navy move to Mayport still unaffordable, says Greenert,” http://thehill.com/blogs/defcon-hill/navy/235165-navy-move-to-mayport-still-unaffordable-says-greenert)</span>
The Navy still cannot afford to move portions of its fleet down to its Mayport
AND
, all Navy carriers deployed on the East Coast are stationed in Norfolk.

**Norfolk is the linchpin of US aircraft carriers– a disaster at Norfolk would undermine our fleet**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**O’ROURKE 12**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs with the Congressional Research Service, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Then-Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) Admiral Gary Roughead summarized the Navy’s rationale for its desire to homeport a CVN at Mayport in early 2010 testimony to Congress on the Navy’s proposed FY2011 budget:</span>
Hampton Roads [Virginia] is the only nuclear carrier capable port on the East
AND
Hampton Roads area for Atlantic Fleet CVNs should a catastrophic event occur.20

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**High risk of a disaster at Norfolk** </span>
**a) Terrorist attack**
**VFC 2009**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Virginia State Police Virginia Fusion Center, “2009 VIRGINIA TERRORISM THREAT ASSESSMENT COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF STATE POLICE VIRGINIA FUSION CENTER MARCH 2009,” http://rawstory.com/images/other/vafusioncenterterrorassessment.pdf)</span>
State government facilities include those owned or leased by all levels of government and can
AND
, these instances underscore the potential for infiltration or pre-incident activity.


**b) Human-caused accidents**
**CRS 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(April 15. Congressional Research Service.“Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress” [[https://opencrs.com/document/R40248/2011-04-15/]] Pismarov)</span>
Note: Edited for gendered language
The Navy states that it used statistics on shipping volumes at the ports of Norfolk
AND
carrier pier by a 200-yard-wide spit of land.33


**c)** **Atlantic Tsunami**
**NOVA 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(March 31. Science Programming and Air. [[http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/tsunami/ask-050331.html]] Pismarov)</span>
Any place on the coast is at risk of tsunamis, and the East Coast
AND
the Atlantic and Caribbean as well as add more in the Pacific basin.


**The tsunami would destroy Norfolk**
**Gordon et al 6** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(John is a Senior Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation, Peter A. Wilson, Senior Defense Research Analyst at the RAND Corporation, John Birkler is a senior management systems analyst at the RAND Corporation, Steven Boraz, Gordon T. Lee “Exploring New Combat and Noncombat</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Roles and Missions for the U.S. Carrier Fleet” National Defense Research Institute [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2006/RAND_MG448.pdf]], ken) </span>
In this vignette, a major underwater earthquake occurs in the mid Atlantic. The
AND
from overland assistance. Only helicopters or boats can reach the isolated areas.


**Detrimental event is __inevitable__ because of the structure of Norfolk’s port**
**Lessig 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Hugh Lessig joined the Daily Press in 1997 as the Hampton city reporter. He spent eight years in Richmond covering state politics and the administrations of three Virginia governors, “Senior Navy commander says Mayport move is "not idle talk.", January 12, [[http://weblogs.dailypress.com/news/local/military/blog/2010/01/senior_navy_commander_says_may_1.html|__http://weblogs.dailypress.com/news/local/military/blog/2010/01/senior_navy_commander_says_may_1.html__]] Pismarov)</span>
A senior Navy fleet commander said there are many serious reasons to move an aircraft
AND
carrier — and its associated jobs and economic effects — moving to Mayport.



**The plan is key to carrier basing at Mayport**
**FCN 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (House Passes Bill Including Mayport Carrier Money, http://www.firstcoastnews.com/news/article/207690/0/House-Passes-Bill-Including-Mayport-Carrier-Money)</span>
__A lot of work must take place before a carrier can again call Mayport home__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. the </span>__carriers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> newer than the USS John F. Kennedy </span>__are larger and require more channel depth, meaning Mayport must be dredged, and__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the nuclear </span>__fuel requires a significant upgrade to the wharf__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> at Mayport.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Funds for both projects have been included in congressional bills since 2010, according to Crenshaw, totalling over $77 million.</span>
__HR 2055__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which passed the House 411-5, </span>__includes__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> nearly $15 million for </span>__transportation infrastructure improvements at Mayport and "funding, as, necessary," for future projects such as the maintenance wharf__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and controlled industrial facility.</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Strategic dispersal to Mayport maintains carrier readiness in the event of disaster** </span>
**Navy Times 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Dispersal is a priority” [[http://www.navytimes.com/community/opinion/navy_opinion_dispersal_011909/]], ken)</span>
Strategic dispersal has been key to the tactical positioning of our naval assets for over
AND
the new president and Congress to help the Navy meet this important objective.



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Mayport is less vulnerable to a disaster and enhances carrier effectiveness** </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**G.A.O. 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (DEFENSE INFRASTRUCTURE Opportunities Exist to Improve the Navy’s Basing Decision Process and DOD Oversight, May, http://www.gao.gov/assets/310/304353.pdf)</span>
According to Navy officials, the Department of the Navy made its recent decision to
AND
• smaller commercial shipping traffic volume, and • strategic and operational flexibility.


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Carriers are key to hegemony – 2 internal links** </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**1. Crisis Management and diplomacy** </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**EAGLAN 2008**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial,” July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)</span>
For any U.S. president, the aircraft carrier embodies the ultimate crisis
AND
transition of events and deliver a psychological message of U.S. interest

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**2. Forward presence** </span>
**US Navy Fact File 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1/6. “Aircraft Carriers- CVN” [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200&tid=200&ct=4]] Pismarov)</span>
Aircraft carriers are the centerpiece of America’s Naval forces .On any given day,
AND
slated to be delivered in 2015 to replace USS Enterprise (CVN 65).

**Forward presence puts a cap on conflict**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**NLUS 12** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity,” 2012 http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf)#SPS</span>
Global engagement is critical to the U.S. economy, world trade and
AND
security and dissuade transnational aggression in the future must be a national imperative.

**US power decline causes nuclear war**
**Kagan, 7 -** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>

This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary goal
AND
new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again.

**Heg is sustainable**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Kagan 12** [Robert Kagan, //Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, B.A., Yale University, M.P.P., John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Ph.D., American University//, January 17, 2012, “Not Fade Away: Against the Myth of American Decline”, Brookings Institute, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/01/17-us-power-kagan]], DMintz]</span>

The challenges today are great, and the rise of China is the most obvious
AND
both to Americans and to the nature of the world they live in.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**We won’t give it up—it’s only a question of effectiveness**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tellis 9</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> — Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2009 (“Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” </span>//Global Asia//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Volume 4, Number 1, Available Online at http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf, Accessed 09-13-2011, p. 54-55)</span>
This hegemony is by no means fated to end any time soon, however,
AND
material foundations of its power, and securing international support for its policies.

===Navy: Heg/Terrorism=== 

**Advantage 1 is Navy:**

**The Navy is upgrading Naval Station Mayport now but has canceled funding necessary to permanently base carriers — our fleet remains concentrated at Naval Station Norfolk**
**THE HILL 6-27**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">-2012 ("Navy move to Mayport still unaffordable, says Greenert," http://thehill.com/blogs/defcon-hill/navy/235165-navy-move-to-mayport-still-unaffordable-says-greenert)</span>
The Navy still cannot afford to move portions of its fleet down to its Mayport
AND
, all Navy carriers deployed on the East Coast are stationed in Norfolk.

**Norfolk is the linchpin of US aircraft carriers– a disaster at Norfolk would undermine our fleet**
**O~’ROURKE 12** (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs with the Congressional Research Service, "Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress," http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf)
Then-Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) Admiral Gary Roughead summarized the Navy~’s rationale for its desire to homeport a CVN at Mayport in early 2010 testimony to Congress on the Navy~’s proposed FY2011 budget:
Hampton Roads ~~[Virginia~~] is the only nuclear carrier capable port on the East
AND
Hampton Roads area for Atlantic Fleet CVNs should a catastrophic event occur.20


**High risk of a disaster at Norfolk**
**a) Terrorist attack**
**VFC 2009**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Virginia State Police Virginia Fusion Center, "2009 VIRGINIA TERRORISM THREAT ASSESSMENT COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF STATE POLICE VIRGINIA FUSION CENTER MARCH 2009," http://rawstory.com/images/other/vafusioncenterterrorassessment.pdf)</span>
State government facilities include those owned or leased by all levels of government and can
AND
, these instances underscore the potential for infiltration or pre-incident activity.


**b) Human-caused accidents**
**CRS 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(April 15. Congressional Research Service."Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress" [[https://opencrs.com/document/R40248/2011-04-15/-https://opencrs.com/document/R40248/2011-04-15/]] Pismarov)</span>
Note: Edited for gendered language
The Navy states that it used statistics on shipping volumes at the ports of Norfolk
AND
carrier pier by a 200-yard-wide spit of land.33

**c) Atlantic Tsunami**
**NOVA 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(March 31. Science Programming and Air. [[http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/tsunami/ask-050331.html-http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/tsunami/ask-050331.html]] Pismarov)</span>
Any place on the coast is at risk of tsunamis, and the East Coast
AND
the Atlantic and Caribbean as well as add more in the Pacific basin.


**The tsunami would destroy Norfolk**
**Gordon et al 6** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(John is a Senior Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation, Peter A. Wilson, Senior Defense Research Analyst at the RAND Corporation, John Birkler is a senior management systems analyst at the RAND Corporation, Steven Boraz, Gordon T. Lee "Exploring New Combat and Noncombat</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Roles and Missions for the U.S. Carrier Fleet" National Defense Research Institute [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2006/RAND_MG448.pdf-http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2006/RAND_MG448.pdf]], ken)</span>
In this vignette, a major underwater earthquake occurs in the mid Atlantic. The
AND
from overland assistance. Only helicopters or boats can reach the isolated areas.



**The plan is key to carrier basing at Mayport**
**FCN 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (House Passes Bill Including Mayport Carrier Money, http://www.firstcoastnews.com/news/article/207690/0/House-Passes-Bill-Including-Mayport-Carrier-Money)</span>
A lot of work must take place before a carrier can again call Mayport home<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. the </span>carriers<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> newer than the USS John F. Kennedy </span>are larger and require more channel depth, meaning Mayport must be dredged, and<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the nuclear </span>fuel requires a significant upgrade to the wharf<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> at Mayport.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Funds for both projects have been included in congressional bills since 2010, according to Crenshaw, totalling over %2477 million.</span>
HR 2055<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which passed the House 411-5, </span>includes<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> nearly %2415 million for </span>transportation infrastructure improvements at Mayport and "funding, as, necessary," for future projects such as the maintenance wharf<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and controlled industrial facility.</span>



**Basing at Mayport enables strategic dispersal of our fleet which solves the impact that a disaster at Norfolk would have on carrier readiness**
**Navy Times 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">("Dispersal is a priority" [[http://www.navytimes.com/community/opinion/navy_opinion_dispersal_011909/-http://www.navytimes.com/community/opinion/navy_opinion_dispersal_011909/]], ken)</span>
Strategic dispersal has been key to the tactical positioning of our naval assets for over
AND
the new president and Congress to help the Navy meet this important objective.



**Strategic dispersal to Mayport reduces the risk of crippling disasters and increases carrier effectiveness**
**G.A.O. 2010** (DEFENSE INFRASTRUCTURE Opportunities Exist to Improve the Navy~’s Basing Decision Process and DOD Oversight, May, http://www.gao.gov/assets/310/304353.pdf)
According to Navy officials, the Department of the Navy made its recent decision to
AND
• smaller commercial shipping traffic volume, and • strategic and operational flexibility.

**Scenario 1 is disaster response**
**Carriers are key to global humanitarian aid**
**Brinton 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(3/18. James B. Thirty years a journalist and writer about high technology, James B. Brinton served as a Naval Officer in the U.S. Navy Special Projects Office~’s Ballistic Missile Submarine program. His duties involved communications, intelligence, and support of advanced navigation technology. "A Great White Fleet for the 21</span>^^st^^<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Century" [[http://spectator.org/archives/2011/03/18/a-great-white-fleet-for-the-21-http://spectator.org/archives/2011/03/18/a-great-white-fleet-for-the-21]] Pismarov)</span>
The size of the Japanese disaster makes relief efforts look woefully puny; humanity needs
AND
the super-carrier and fleet concepts for a new, humanitarian mission.

**That~’s key to soft power – an independent link to leadership**
**PORTH 2008**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Jacquelyn S, Staff Writer for America.gov, http://www.america.gov/st/peacesec-english/2008/June/20080627150217sjhtrop0.657818.html)</span>
They also expose local populations to U.S. naval forces, cultivating a
AND
.S. Navy and the military, but of America in general."

**Soft power solves terrorism**
**Nye, 4** - University Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard
AND
inherent attractiveness of US policies can and does influence their degree of cooperation.

**Terrorism causes global nuclear war**
**Morgan 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dennis, Professor @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (South Korea, "World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race," Futures, November, Science Direct)</span>

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question ~’~’Is
AND
, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.

**Scenario two is Naval Hegemony**
**Carriers are key to naval primacy**
**EAGLAN 2008** (Mackenzie Eaglen is Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at The Heritage Foundation, "Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial," July 31, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html)
For any U.S. president, the aircraft carrier embodies the ultimate crisis
AND
transition of events and deliver a psychological message of U.S. interest

**No other country can fill in**
**WHITENECK 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Daniel Whiteneck • Michael Price • Neil Jenkins •Peter Swartz, CNA Analysis %26 Solutions, "The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?" March, http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf)</span>
Second, no other country (or combination of countries) will create the forces
AND
of assets) would quickly deplete their resources and political support at home.

**The impact is nuclear war**
**Kagan, 7** - <span style="font-size: 6pt;">senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, "End of Dreams, Return of History", 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>

This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary goal
AND
new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again.

**Heg is sustainable and we won~’t give it up—it~’s only a question of effectiveness**
**Tellis 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> — Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2009 ("Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States," </span>Global Asia<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Volume 4, Number 1, Available Online at http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf, Accessed 09-13-2011, p. 54-55)</span>
This hegemony is by no means fated to end any time soon, however,
AND
foundations of the republic — is unlikely to be extinguished any time soon.
Precisely because the desire for dominance is likely to remain a permanent feature of US
AND
material foundations of its power, and securing international support for its policies.

**This is also true for naval reliance**
**WHITENECK 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Daniel Whiteneck • Michael Price • Neil Jenkins •Peter Swartz, CNA Analysis %26 Solutions, "The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?" March, http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf)</span>
In the future, the demand for the Navy will continue to be part of
AND
diplomacy to support administration priorities and to support security cooperation activities by COCOMs.
=== === 

===Florida: Bio-D=== 
**Advantage 2 is Florida:**

**Florida~’s economy is low now – public sector jobs are key**
**Margolis 9/12**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Dan, managing editor for the People~’s World "Florida~’s economy lags behind nation; low wages contribute" [[</span>http://peoplesworld.org/florida-s-economy-lags-behind-nation-low-wages-contribute/-http://peoplesworld.org/florida-s-economy-lags-behind-nation-low-wages-contribute/]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, ken) </span>//
//Florida workers were hit hard by the Great Recession and the economic recovery is coming//
//AND//
//demographic groups," says the report, which was authored by Bernardo Oseguera.//


**The Plan boosts economic stimulus and jobs in Jacksonville**
**O~’Rourke 12** - Specialist in Naval Affairs (Ronald, "Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress," June 14, 2012, The Congressional Research Service)
Local Economic Value of Homeporting a CVN Serving as the home port for a CVN
AND
would generate a total of %24671 million in initial economic activity. 32


**That~’s key to Florida~’s economy**
**Anderson 11** (Paul, JAXPORT CEO, "ECONOMIC IMPACT · JAXPORT" January, [[http://www.jaxport.com/sites/default/files/docs/econimpactjaxport.pdf-http://www.jaxport.com/sites/default/files/docs/econimpactjaxport.pdf]])

Cargo activity in Jacksonville generates nearly %2419 billion in total economic activity. The
AND
S. Customs revenue, local purchases, and state and local revenues.


**Florida~’s economy sustains manufacturing supply for ports**
**Cambridge 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cambridge Systematics, Inc., Provider of management and planning consulting services and information systems to the public and private transportation industries. "Global Trade Trends: Challenges and Opportunities for Florida~’s Ports", July, [[http://www.flaports.org/Assets/119201123427PM.pdf-http://www.flaports.org/Assets/119201123427PM.pdf]], ken)</span>
We would argue that the strong 20-year growth in Florida~’s container ports has
AND
who have "globalized" their manufacturing supply chains over the last decade.

**Florida commercial port growth is expanding – but it depends on increasing the manufacturing base**
**FSHCC 12** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Florida State Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, International Trade Articles, "Florida Internaional Trade Articles" June 7, [[http://info.fshcc.com/florida-international-trade-articles/bid/83987/International-Trade-Swells-at-Florida-s-Seaports-http://info.fshcc.com/florida-international-trade-articles/bid/83987/International-Trade-Swells-at-Florida-s-Seaports]], ken) </span>
"We~’re just thrilled we~’re talking growth in the industry, considering the global economic
AND
time cargo can move from shipping lanes to railroad tracks and interstate highways.

**Florida seaports are the linchpin of US trade with the CAFTA countries**
**CAFTA intelligence center 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The CAFTA intelligence center is an organization designed to provide comprehensive CAFTA information, including in-depth research and country profiles, trade information, business resources, links to policy sites, news updates and more. "The Florida Advantage" [[http://www.caftaintelligencecenter.com/subpages/The_Florida_Advantage.asp?print=true%26-http://www.caftaintelligencecenter.com/subpages/The_Florida_Advantage.asp?print=true%26]], ken) </span>
Companies planning to take advantage of the new commercial opportunities opened for them by the
AND
. For more information about Florida~’s ports, visit the Florida Ports Council.

**Now is key to increase US trade to South America – they are reducing dependence on China**
**SHANNON 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (KERRI, Associate Editor, Money Morning, "Latin America Looks to Strengthen U.S. Trade Relations and Step Back From China" [[</span>http://moneymorning.com/2011/03/17/latin-america-looks-to-strengthen-u-s-trade-relations-and-step-back-from-china/-//http://moneymorning.com/2011/03/17/latin-america-looks-to-strengthen-u-s-trade-relations-and-step-back-from-china/]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ken)</span>//
//The United States has long referred to Latin America as its "backyard", and//
//AND//
//author of a book on China~’s presence in Latin America, told Reuters.//


//**Reduced dependence on China has stifled Latin American growth – increased US trade is key**//
//**Global Post 7/24**/12<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ("Latin America: Is China now bad for business?"</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/business/global-economy/120723/latin-america-china-economic-slowdown-brics-growth-trade-http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/business/global-economy/120723/latin-america-china-economic-slowdown-brics-growth-trade]], ken) </span>//
//For years the region~’s mantra has been to boost trade with China. But now//
//AND//
//falling prices for crude oil and coal, two of Colombia~’s chief exports.//


//**US trade with CAFTA countries is key to their economic growth**//
//**du Pont 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Pete, Board Chairman, National Center for Policy Analysis "Benefits of the Central American Free Trade Agreement", April 13, [[</span>http://www.ncpa.org/speech/benefits-of-the-central-american-free-trade-agreement-http://www.ncpa.org/speech/benefits-of-the-central-american-free-trade-agreement]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ken)</span>
Benefits of Economic Growth. The reduction in trade barriers in the six CAFTA countries
AND
in 2002. Expanding trade with the United States would accelerate this progress.

**CAFTA countries economic decline causes deforestation – this destroys global biodiversity**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Jeffrey </span>**Sachs**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, director of the Center for International Development and Galen L. Stone Professor of International Trade in the Department of Economics at Harvard, Summer 20</span>**01**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, The Washington Quarterly</span>
Economic collapse and state failure are major contributors to environmental degradation of strategic concern to
AND
and Venezuela, suffering under severe economic stress, if not outright failure.

**Deforestation is the biggest internal link – forests are key to 90% of all species**
**Rochen and Stock 98**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Andy Rochen and Jocelyn Stock are undergraduate researchers at the University of Michigan. "Deforestation and Society" http://www.umich.edu/~~gs265/society/deforestation.htm)</span>
To understand why deforestation is such a pressing and urgent issue, forests must first
AND
soil rich with life. Mother earth has given much responsibility to trees.


**Bio-D loss causes extinction**
**WATSON 2006** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17, http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html)</span>
The facts are clear. More plant and animal species will go through extinction within
AND
and with it the horrendous and mind numbing specter of massive human destruction.

**Independently, Central American deforestation accelerates global famine – causes nuclear war**
**Takacs 96** - Ph.D. in science and technology studies @ Cornell, Professor of Environmental Humanities, Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy, California State University, Monterey Bay, David, The Idea of Biodiversity: Philosophies of Paradise, p. 200-1~~] EL

"Habitat destruction and conversion are eliminating species at such a frightening pace that extinction
AND
end of the next century not with a bang but a whimper. 14

===Florida: Bio-D/Chavez=== 
**Advantage 2 is Florida:**

**They’re economy is low now – public sector jobs are key**
**Margolis 9/12**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Dan, managing editor for the People's World “Florida’s economy lags behind nation; low wages contribute” </span>[[http://peoplesworld.org/florida-s-economy-lags-behind-nation-low-wages-contribute/]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, ken)</span>
Florida workers were hit hard by the Great Recession and the economic recovery is coming
AND
demographic groups," says the report, which was authored by Bernardo Oseguera.


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The Plan boosts economic stimulus and jobs in Jacksonville**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**O'Rourke 12** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Specialist in Naval Affairs (Ronald, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress,” June 14, 2012, The Congressional Research Service)</span>
Local Economic Value of Homeporting a CVN Serving as the home port for a CVN
AND
would generate a total of $671 million in initial economic activity. 32


**That’s key to Florida’s economy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Anderson 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, JAXPORT CEO, “ECONOMIC IMPACT · JAXPORT” January, </span>[[http://www.jaxport.com/sites/default/files/docs/econimpactjaxport.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Cargo activity in Jacksonville generates nearly $19 billion in total economic activity. The
AND
S. Customs revenue, local purchases, and state and local revenues.


**Florida’s economy __sustains manufacturing__ supply for ports**
**Cambridge 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cambridge Systematics, Inc., Provider of management and planning consulting services and information systems to the public and private transportation industries. “Global Trade Trends: Challenges and Opportunities for Florida’s Ports”, July, [[http://www.flaports.org/Assets/119201123427PM.pdf]], ken)</span>
We would argue that the strong 20-year growth in Florida's container ports has
AND
who have "globalized" their manufacturing supply chains over the last decade.

**Florida commercial port growth is expanding – but it __depends on__ __increasing__ the manufacturing base**
**FSHCC 12** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Florida State Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, International Trade Articles, “Florida Internaional Trade Articles” June 7, [[http://info.fshcc.com/florida-international-trade-articles/bid/83987/International-Trade-Swells-at-Florida-s-Seaports]], ken)</span>
"We're just thrilled we're talking growth in the industry, considering the global economic
AND
time cargo can move from shipping lanes to railroad tracks and interstate highways.

**Florida seaports are the linchpin of US trade with the CAFTA countries**
**CAFTA intelligence center 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The CAFTA intelligence center is an organization designed to provide comprehensive CAFTA information, including in-depth research and country profiles, trade information, business resources, links to policy sites, news updates and more. “The Florida Advantage” [[http://www.caftaintelligencecenter.com/subpages/The_Florida_Advantage.asp?print=true&]], ken)</span>
Companies planning to take advantage of the new commercial opportunities opened for them by the
AND
. For more information about Florida’s ports, visit the Florida Ports Council.

**Now is key to increase US trade to South America – they are reducing dependence on China**
**SHANNON 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (KERRI, Associate Editor, Money Morning, “Latin America Looks to Strengthen U.S. Trade Relations and Step Back From China” </span>[[http://moneymorning.com/2011/03/17/latin-america-looks-to-strengthen-u-s-trade-relations-and-step-back-from-china/]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ken)</span>
The United States has long referred to Latin America as its "backyard", and
AND
author of a book on China's presence in Latin America, told Reuters.


**Reduced dependence on China has stifled South American growth – increased US trade is key**
**Global Post 7/24/12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Latin America: Is China now bad for business?”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/business/global-economy/120723/latin-america-china-economic-slowdown-brics-growth-trade]], ken)</span>
For years the region’s mantra has been to boost trade with China. But now
AND
falling prices for crude oil and coal, two of Colombia’s chief exports.


**US trade key to CAFTA economies**
**du Pont 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Pete, Board Chairman, National Center for Policy Analysis “Benefits of the Central American Free Trade Agreement”, April 13, </span>[[http://www.ncpa.org/speech/benefits-of-the-central-american-free-trade-agreement]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ken)</span>
Benefits of Economic Growth. The reduction in trade barriers in the six CAFTA countries
AND
in 2002. Expanding trade with the United States would accelerate this progress.

**Scenario 1 is biodiversity –**
**CAFTA countries economic decline causes deforestation – the effect is global**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Jeffrey </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sachs</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, director of the Center for International Development and Galen L. Stone Professor of International Trade in the Department of Economics at Harvard, Summer 20</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">01</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, The Washington Quarterly</span>
Economic collapse and state failure are major contributors to environmental degradation of strategic concern to
AND
and Venezuela, suffering under severe economic stress, if not outright failure.

**Deforestation is the biggest internal link – forests are home to 90% of all species**
**Rochen and Stock 98**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Andy Rochen and Jocelyn Stock are undergraduate researchers at the University of Michigan. “Deforestation and Society” http://www.umich.edu/~gs265/society/deforestation.htm)</span>
To understand why deforestation is such a pressing and urgent issue, forests must first
AND
soil rich with life. Mother earth has given much responsibility to trees.


**Bio-D loss causes extinction**
**WATSON 2006** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17, http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html)</span>
The facts are clear. More plant and animal species will go through extinction within
AND
and with it the horrendous and mind numbing specter of massive human destruction.

**Scenario two is Democracy –**

**CAFTA economies are key to it**
**Booth and Seligson 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John A, Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas, and Mitchell A., Centennial Professor of Political Science and Professor of Sociology at Vanderbilt University, “Inequality and Democracy in Latin America: Individual and Contextual Effects of Wealth on Political Participation” January, [[http://duke.edu/~elb13/Papers/Booth%20and%20Seligson_Panel%201.pdf]], ken)</span>
In Political Man Seymour Martin Lipset (Lipset 1961; 1981) made the classic
AND
level of economic development, breakdown is more likely when economic growth falters.


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Democracy is key to prevent the spread of Huge Chavez’s regional socialist agenda – it causes genocide and regional instability</span>**
**Manwaring, 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Max, General Douglas MacArthur Chair and Professor of Military Strategy at the U.S. Army War College and Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson CollegeOctober, “ Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez, Bolivarian Socialism, and Asymmetric Warfare” www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB628.pdf]</span>
At the same time, President Chávez’s approach to Latin American security and stability requires
AND
and their associated problems endanger global security, peace, and prosperity.65
**Brink is now – Chávez is converting local economies to his regime**
**Hornbeck****11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J. F., Specialist in International Trade and Finance February 8, 2011 “U.S.-Latin America Trade: Recent Trends and Policy Issues” [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/98-840.pdf]], ken)</span>
The prospects are limited at best for exploring reciprocal FTAs with Brazil, Argentina
AND
regional bargaining interests in juxtaposition to the U.S.-designed FTAA.
**Instability escalates – draws in great powers**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James Francis </span>**Rochlin**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, political scientist, Okanagan University College, </span>**1994**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Discovering the Americas: the evolution of Canadian foreign policy towards Latin America, p. 130-131</span>
Canada possessed an interest in promoting stability in the face of a potential decline of
AND
resolution, such as Contadora, as will be discussed in the next chapter


=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===Privatization=== 
**Text –**

**The United States federal government should:**

**-- devolve all control over infrastructure otherwise funded by the plan to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on the infrastructure to the states.**

**-- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in infrastructure funded mandated by the plan**

**--grant states permission to transfer ownership the infrastructure to the private sector.**

**Solves the case – the CP encourages state experimentation with full privatization – this raises more capital than the plan and stimulates the economy without federal funding**
**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)/DH|http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]

Decentralizing Infrastructure Financing The U.S. economy needs infrastructure, but state and
AND
traffic control system, as Canada has done with very favorable results.31

**The CP’s experiment creates the political will for full-scale infrastructure privatization**
**Winston, 10** - applied microeconomist and senior fellow in the Economic Studies Program at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brookings_Institution|Brookings Institution]]. He specializes in the analysis of and has written extensively on industrial organization, regulation, and transportation (Clifford, __Last Exit: Privatization and Deregulation of the U.S. Transportation System,__ p. 2-3)//DH//

//Do the current problems with the transportation system suggest that the nation should find a//
//AND//
//policy in a few places to see what happens before implementing it nationwide.//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Policymakers should select transportation services in certain locales that are provided by the public sector, allow private firms to innovate in those services</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and respond according to the results. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">By producing greater understanding of how market forces could allocate transportation resources, </span>//the experiments could guide widespread implementation//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of and justification </span>//for a new approach to transportation policy//<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that could significantly improve the system’s performance.</span>//


**4 net benefits –**

**1. productivity – federal planning undermines productivity because it can’t accurately respond to price signals. Private decision making more efficiently allocates resources tailored to economic need**
**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)/DH|http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]

In the description of today's hearing, the committee asked how infrastructure helps to promote
AND
5 billion for housing, and $3.5 billion for airports.

**2. Innovation – federal planning doesn’t accurately target infrastructure development to best meet economic need – mismanagement deepens economic problems**
**Norcross and Sautet, 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – both are senior research fellows at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University (Eileen and Frederic, “THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT: Will More Public Spending Pave the Way to a Better Infrastructure?” SSRN)</span>DH

Infrastructure development is not the cause of economic growth, but rather a consequence.
AND
Consumers don’t obtain what they need and don’t pay for what they consume.

**3. competitiveness – using private sector capital diverts it from other countries – maximizes competitiveness more effectively than public spending**
**Staley, 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - senior research fellow at Reason Foundation and associate director of the DeVoe L. Moore Center at Florida State University in Tallahassee where he teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in urban planning, regulation, and urban economics (Samuel, “Gas Tax Increase or Private Capital?,” 7/16, [[http://reason.org/news/show/1006992.html]])DH</span>

Congress isn't waiting to see who wins in November before deciding how to spend the
AND
, our transportation system will continue to lag far behind our global competitors.

**4. data cooking - public investment is manipulated by project managers who __cook the data__ to win project approval – exaggerates aff benefits and causes massive cost overruns**
Flyvbjerg, 10 - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]]
AND
, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)DH

This situation may need some explication, because it may sound to many like an
AND
signiﬁcant social and environmental impacts, as is common with major infrastructure projects.

**Data cooking creates economic disasters – the worst projects are approved, and necessary infrastructure loses out – this turns the case**
Flyvbjerg, 10 - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]]
AND
, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)//DH

In sum, the UK study shows that strong interests and strong incentives exist at
AND
. They have been designed like that, as disasters waiting to happen.


===Advantage Counterplans=== 
====Biofuels==== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should provide tax credits the development and production of advanced biofuels.**

**Federal tax credits for advanced biofuels key to solve dependency**
Jim <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Collins</span> – President of DuPont Industrial Biosciences – 3/16/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12</span>, Biofuels Key to Energy & Economic Policy, Energy Experts Blog, National Journal, [[http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/03/should-government-subsidize-en.php]]

Now that gas prices are hovering close to $4 a gallon, reflecting both underlying
“Contribution of the Ethanol Industry to the Economy of the United States”).
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> we need a strong collaborative partnership between business investment and government support for advanced biofuels.</span>
===Imagination=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: Roman and I imagine the North American and Asian continents become joined by a fixed-link Bering Strait crossing.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Counterplan solves case:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We must take a leap of imagination—the Bering Strait link is being killed by focus on the details of implementation and the fear of risk. We should start by imagining the crossing, not by debating how government policy is implemented</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">OLIVER 2007</span>** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(James, writer and journalist, The Bering Strait Crossing: A 21st Century Frontier Between East and West, 216-219)</span>
We must take a leap of imagination—the Bering Strait link is being killed
AND
East and West, must be confronted. This is the crossing point.

**Imagining a future without the state is key to prevent nationalism from infecting the aff. This turns case.**
**Csicsery-Ronay, Jr.02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Istvan; Professor of English, DePauw University, Co-Editor, Science Fiction Studies & Humanimalia: A Journal of Human/Animal Interface Studies; “Dis-Imagined Communities: Science Fiction and the Future of Nations” [[http://dpuadweb.depauw.edu/icronay_web/dis.htm)/RSW|http://dpuadweb.depauw.edu/icronay_web/dis.htm)//RSW]]</span>
Science fiction and the Post-National Turn. Readers expect sf to conduct thought
AND
shallow roots that will not command their populations’ loyalties in the future.5

===Japan Withdrawal=== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Text: The United States federal government should complete a phased withdrawal of its military presence in Japan.</span>**

**Current Cold War model of the Japan-US alliance is outdated and troop presence is uniquely contentious**
**Congressional Research Service ’09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Emma Chanlett-Avery (specialist in asian affairs) and Weston S. Konishi (analyst in asian affairs) Congressional Research Service: “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests” July 23, 2009)</span>

__Some analysts argue that the ...__ U.S. deterrence in the region.

**Counterplan solves – Withdrawal of troops from Japan allows a refashioning of the US-Japan alliance where both sides are equal**
**Bandow, 2010** [Doug, Senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to President Reagan; “Japan Can Defend Itself,” May 12, Accessed online at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804]]</span>. Article also appeared on The National Interest Online]

__America's post-Cold War dominance ...__ __time for Washington to deliver.__

**Phased withdrawal of US forces from Japan uniquely results in improved relations with Japan**
**Simpson, 2010** [Dan, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor; “Let’s Draw Down Our Forces in Japan; As a matter of fact, we have way too many troops in way too many places,” Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, March 17; Accessed online at LN]

__All in all, the new ...____where they have been forever.__

===States=== 
====Generic==== 
**Text: The fifty states should [mandate of the plan].**

**Only the states solve – the plan and permutation are ineffective and take too long**
**Holler, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Communications Director for Heritage Action for America (Dan, 04/04, “Thinking Outside the Beltway,” http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/04/paying-for-it.php#2190872)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When it comes to … to know where to look.</span>
====vs ITS==== 
**State Uniformity solves**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">DOT 11</span> Department of Transportation Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Standards Program Strategic Plan for 2011–2014 April 2011 [[http://www.its.dot.gov/standards_strategic_plan/index.htm]]

Intelligent Transportation Systems(ITS) require logical and physical connections among many diverse
AND

program. Such interoperability is only possible with a robust set of standards.4
====vs NIB==== 
**Text:** **The 50 states and all relevant territories should establish and fund infrastructure banks. These banks should do everything entailed in our Puentes evidence**

**States solve the NIB—empirically successful**
**Puentes 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Senior Fellow @ the Metropolitan Policy Program of the Brookings Institution, [Robert, Brookings-Testimony to the US/China Investment Forum/US Department of Treasury, “New Approaches for Infrastructure Finance: State and Local Perspective,” April 11, 2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2012/04/11-infrastructure-finance-puentes]]</span>, DKP]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Undersecretary Brainard, Vice Chairman Xiaoqiang, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PPP projects during this time.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2012/04/11-infrastructure-finance-puentes#note6|[6]]]</span> </span>


====vs Mayport==== 
**Text: Florida should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure necessary to sustain a home port for a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at the Naval Station Mayport.**

**Florida solves – GAO report proves**
**Wavy, 11** – division of the Virginia Government Accountability Office, (Wavy.com, news source Report March 30 2011 “GAO: Fla. could maintain nuclear carrier”, [[http://www.wavy.com/dpp/military/GAO-Fla-industry-can-maintain-nuclear-carrier]])[rkezios]

NORFOLK, Va. (AP) - Ship-repair firms in northeast Florida
AND
$425 million in annual revenue if a carrier permanently sails to Mayport.


====vs Climate Resiliency==== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Text: The fifty states should substantially </span>increase its investment in the development of resilient transportation infrastructure.**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">States take interest in transportation infrastructure – they access the aff’s federal key warrants</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AASHTO 09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(American Association for State Highway Transportation Officials – representing transportation infrastructure in the 50 states, May 29, 2009, “Transportation and Sustainability Best Practices Background”, https://www.dot.ny.gov/programs/greenlites/repository/AASHTO%20Sustainability%20Briefing%20Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the 2008 FHWA ... in Rhode Island and Louisiana.</span>


**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The states take efforts now – local governments are better for management</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AASHTO,9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(American Association for State Highway Transportation Officials – representing transportation infrastructure in the 50 states, May 29, 2009, “Transportation and Sustainability Best Practices Background”, https://www.dot.ny.gov/programs/greenlites/repository/AASHTO%20Sustainability%20Briefing%20Paper.pdf)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Of the many sustainability elements, ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its CSS clearinghouse link (May 2009). </span>
===Port Improvement=== 
**Text:** **The United States federal government should complete the Port Improvement Project through the Port of Guam Improvement Enterprise Program.**

**CP solves long term economy- jobs, technological innovation, and private sector**
**Port Authority of Guam 09**
(ECONOMIC IMPACT AND JOBS<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>ANALYSIS OF THE PORT<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>IMPROVEMENT PROJECT, August 2009, BTS Associates)
The Port Improvement Project will enable increased employment in Guam, particularly in the¶
AND
make¶ Guam a contributor to the defense industrial base of the future.

**CP generates better jobs and stimulus for economic growth**
**Port Authority of Guam 09**
(ECONOMIC IMPACT AND JOBS<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>ANALYSIS OF THE PORT<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>IMPROVEMENT PROJECT, August 2009, BTS Associates)
The Port Improvement Project will generate jobs and economic stimulus in a severely distressed¶
AND
49.9%¶ higher than the average private sector wage in Guam..
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">Diversity Forums</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: Our counter advocacy is to create a non competitive forum in which we [mandates of the plan]</span>**



**Discussion forums solve case better.**

**Zompetti ’04**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Interjecting the </span>__personalized__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">into debate rounds has become highly problematic. As discussions on eDebate </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">to personalizing debate, however, are, in my opinion, enormous.</span>



**Two net benefits-**



**1) Alliance splitting- personalizing debate causing backlash and resistance against the cause and turns case.**

**Zompetti ’04**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The purpose of this essay is to outline what I strongly believe </span>__is a fundamental__

__AND__

__of debating has emerged wrought with frustrations, anxiety, resistance and backlash.__





**2. Debate rounds are bad forums- lack of time, moving advocacy target, and they deflect from community-wide discussions- turns the case**

**Zompetti ’04**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>



__The second major problem with this turn in contemporary policy debate is its deflection,__

__AND__

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">how personalized debating prevents examination of more important factors such as resource disparity.</span>



**Limiting these discussions to a small, competitive debate round fails—we need a broader forum to prevent group polarization, which makes genuine dialogue and progress impossible.**

**Talisse 5**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Talisse, Robert, philosophy professor at Vanderbilt, “Deliberativist Response to Activist Challenges, Philosophy and Social Criticism, vol 31, no.4)FS</span>

__Group polarization is a well-documented phenomenon that has ‘been found all over__

__AND__

__of justice__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Insofar as the activist denies this, he is unreasonable. div</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">HMTF Firewalls</span>=== 

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Text: The United States federal government should establish firewalls on the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, mandating that it only be utilized for expedited port maintenance and dredging. </span>**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Firewalls result in funding for port dredging without increasing spending </span>**

**<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Weakley, 8 </span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 7pt;">(1AC Author) – Realize America’s Maritime promise, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association (James, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 7pt;">) // EK</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Harbor Maintenance Tax and the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund were established in the Water </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

__would be used__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">for their intended purpose and not merely for deficit reduction.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Tower</span>=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should build a freestanding inflatable tower twenty kilometers into space made out of pneumatically inflated sections.**



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Inflatable space towers are the best alternative to space elevators-Solves the case and net benefits**</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Quine et al., 9** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[BM, Department of Earth and Space Science and Engineering, York University, and Department of Physics and Astronomy, York University, R.K. Seth, Department of Physics and Astronomy, York University, and Z.H., Department of Earth and Space Science and Engineering, York University, “A free-standing space elevator structure: A practical alternative to the space tether”, http://pi.library.yorku.ca/dspace/bitstream/handle/10315/2587/AA_3369_Quine_Space_Elevator_Final_2009.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Space tethers have been investigated</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> widely </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">as a means to provide easy access to space</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">methods for construction and its utility for space launch and other applications are discussed </span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**And, the counterplan solves and avoids the internal net benefit-It Doesn’t Fall Down**</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Quine et al., 9** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[BM, Department of Earth and Space Science and Engineering, York University, and Department of Physics and Astronomy, York University, R.K. Seth, Department of Physics and Astronomy, York University, and Z.H., Department of Earth and Space Science and Engineering, York University, “A free-standing space elevator structure: A practical alternative to the space tether”, http://pi.library.yorku.ca/dspace/bitstream/handle/10315/2587/AA_3369_Quine_Space_Elevator_Final_2009.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It has previously been proposed</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, most famously by Arthur C. Clarke in his </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">to access safely a region of space with a view extending hundreds of kilometers</span>





**And, the space elevator falling down causes extinction-Only the CP solves**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The Last Redoubt, 9** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The Last Redoubt is run by a laboratory researcher in molecular biology and a manager of software development for a private university medical center in the United States, “Space Elevators Do Not Go All the Way to The Top”, http://last-redoubt.com/articles/6/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">When something does go wrong, it could be disastrous for a substantial fraction of </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">much of the cable was on the bottom portion after the initial break</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Delegations</span>=== 

**Text: <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Congress should delegate the authority to [mandate of the plan] to the [agency]. The [agency] should pursue and enact the congressional delegation.</span>**



**Delegation lets Obama avoid blame – solves best avoids delay, complexity, and confusion**

**Schoenbrod ’93** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David Schoenbrod,- professor of law at NYU, "Power Without Responsibility", 1993, pg. 95-96)</span>

Second, presidents must take personal responsibility for laws embodied in statues that they sign

AND

increases the opportunity for legislators and the president to do politically valuable casework.


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">Word PICs</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">Tribal PIC</span>==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should create a Native American Infrastructure Bank to renovate and construct roads, bridges and transportation systems on Native American reservations.</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rejecting ‘tribal’ as a term is key to effective policy</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lowe, et al, 97</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> historian from Boston University (Chris, Tunde Brimah from University of Denver, Pearl-Alice Marsh from African Policy Information Center, William Minter from African Policy Information Center, and Monde Muyangwa from National Summit on Africa, “Talking about "Tribe"</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Moving from Stereotypes to Analysis”, November, Africa Action, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.africaaction.org/talking-about-tribe.html]]</span> SW)</span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">On the contrary, it is an attempt to face the reality of ethnic divisions </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>

**__to the similar questions that press on humanity everywhere in the world today.__**

==Kritiks== 
===Nietzsche=== 
**The affirmative’s fixation with ending suffering negates life. Instead of deluding ourselves with dreams of escaping the inevitability of suffering followed by a meaningless death, we should embrace this suffering as a testing and show of strength.**
**Kain,** professor of philosophy at Santa Clara, **2007** [Philip J., “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence,” Journal of Nietzsche Studies 33 (2007), 49-63]

At the center of Nietzsche's vision lies his concept of the "terror and horror
AND
, we cannot eliminate suffering; we can only seek to mask it.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ressentiment destroys the ability to value human life- makes their impacts inevitable. </span>
<span class="underline">Nietzsche 87</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[“Genealogy of Morals”, second essay “Guilt…” pg. 497 in “The Basic Writings of Nietzsche”]</span>
How can one create a memory for the human animal? How can one impress
AND
social existence as present realities upon these slaves of momentary affect and desire.


**Embrace the status quo. Acceptance of the necessity of the existing world is also acceptance of the inevitability of chaos and chance. We must submit ourselves to the one dice-roll of the status quo, rather than resentfully trying to control the dice through claims to predictions and causality.**
**DELEUZE 1986** (Gilles, French philosopher, “Nietzsche and Philosophy,” Columbia UP, p. 25-7) vp

The game has two moments which are those of a dicethrow – the dice that
AND
the repetition of a dicethrow by the nature of the fatally obtained number.
===Give Back the Land=== 
**The aff ignores the prior question of Native American colonization --we are colonial occupiers of stolen land.**
**Churchill, 03** (Ward, Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader, “I am Indigenist: Notes on the Ideology of the Fourth World”).

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Leaving aside questions concerning the validity of various treaties</span>, __the beginning point for any__
__<span style="background-color: aqua;">AND</span>__
__for attainment of everyone seriously committed to accomplishing positive change in North America__.

**The origins of violence outlined by the 1AC began, not with transportation ignorance, but with the genocide of the Native Americans. The only way to address these issues is to begin by taking this material reality seriously.**
**Rogin, 88** (http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Political_Repression/Political_Repression_US.html. “Political Repression in the United States”, from the book //Ronald Reagan: The Movie and other episodes in political demonology,// Michael, Prof of Poli Sci UC Berkeley).

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Masterless Indians had challenged European institutional restraints at the beginning of American history. Early </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__, and radical dissent-form the major loci of American political suppression.__

**Thus we affirm impossible realism and give back the land. This is the first priority to the first Americans. Until we recognize that we are currently on stolen ground and dismantle the United States all together can we liberate native America from the grip of its imperial chokehold.**
**Churchill 96** [Ward, former professor of ethnic studies at university of colorado, boulder, “i am indigenist,” from a native son pgs 89-94

__The question which inevitably arises with regard to indigenous land claims,__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">especially </span>__in the__
__AND__
__realism.” Isn’t it time we all went to work on attaining it?__


**This is a crucial starting point by addressing the material conditions of violence.**
**Churchill, 03** (Ward, Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader, “I am Indigenist: Notes on the Ideology of the Fourth World”).

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Not only is it perfectly reasonable to assert that a restoration of native control over </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">make themselves part of the problem rather than becoming part of the solution.</span>

**Taking the decolonization of North America seriously is the only way to control the state. It is impossible to end oppression without starting in Indian Country. Otherwise, extinction is inevitable.**
**Churchill, 03** (Ward, Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader, “Radioactive Colonization”).

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is worth observing that the ensuing </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">decolonization</span>__ __of Native North America would offer benefits__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">goes around, comes around, ” as Charlie Manson liked to say). </span>

===Mann=== 
**The very nature of intellectual warfare is useless. Regardless of the aff’s intentions, they will never succeed and are a form of systems-maintenance, and a mask of the status-quo tricked out with beautiful illusory truths.**
**Mann** 19**96** [Dept. of English, Pomona College, The Nine Grounds of Intellectual Warfare, Postmodern Culture ARON]

As the economy in general and technological development in particular come to be seen in
AND
exchange ideas only in order to destroy thought itself with these ludicrous gifts.

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">And, constantly demanding that we become critical warriors is the nature of rhetorical criticism. The duty to “fight the good fight” only exists in our heads, because the post-modern borders that we speak of exist only on the pages of books, the K becomes a method of entrapment and an END to politics.</span>**
**Mann, 1996,** [Dept. of English, Pomona College, //The Nine Grounds of Intellectual Warfare//, Postmodern Culture ARON]

It would be a mistake to assume that this metamorphosis of discourse as war into
AND
becoming critical warriors or being relieved of the demand that we do so.

**And, acting as a singularity and attempting to reject all formalized identiy in favor of its own being separate from the state is “identifiable,” and becoming of the principle enemy of the state. Our opponents valorize this position as the one of moral resistance, yet they fail to realize that calling us to join in their demonstration will inevitably result in state-sponsored violence.**

**Agamben 1993,** Giorgio**,** The Coming Community, Translated by Michael Hardt, 83-5 ARON

WHAT COULD be the politics of whatever singularity, that is: of a being
AND
a Tiananmen, and, sooner or later, the tanks will appear.



**Embrace the tactical usage of fog. Rather than self-congratulate for the strength we have mobilized through our criticism, we must appear weak yet be tactical- we must not let the enemy see what we truly think of them if we are ever to be victorious.**

**Mann, 1996**, [Dept. of English, Pomona College, //The Nine Grounds of Intellectual Warfare//, Postmodern Culture ARON]

Consider what Clausewitz calls the fog of war -- its untheorizable turmoil, error,
AND
There are many more than nine grounds, but the rest are secret.
===EcoJustice=== 
<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 1: Competition </span>**</span>

<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. Negation Theory- in order to negate the affirmative we require a stable locus of offense which informs the judge’s political approach to the 1AC versus the 1NC substantive strategy</span>**</span>

B. Judge the 1AC As A Rhetorical Artifact- The affirmative should not be
AND
arguments don’t rise to the level of meaning they should win the debate round

<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 2:</span>**</span>
<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Framework is earth first- academic spaces must focus primarily on the question of human relationships to nature- the impact turns and outweighs the aff case </span>**</span>
<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bowers ‘8</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought,) </span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Transitions: Educational Reforms that Promote Ecological Intelligence or the Assumptions Underlying Modernity?]</span>__
Leadership is needed in preparingclassroom teachers with the necessary knowledge and pedagogical skills that will
AND
fisheries, petroleum, and other natural minerals.Pg. 182-184


<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Only our framework articulates a meaningful role for your ballot- you are primarily an educator, not an activist.</span>**</span>
<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bowers ‘7</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought,), </span><span class="berief">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Handbook for Faculty Workshops on How to Introduce Cultural Commons and Ecojustice Issues into Their Courses</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">]</span>

In conducting a workshop,it is important to remember thatthe disciplinary perspectives of faculty
AND
reliant and consumer-oriented cultures. Pg. 3-5//1nc//



//<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The aff focus on emancipator knowledge comes at the expense of environmental protection- fixation on cultural transformation promotes a rootless individualism that cannot come to grips with impending ecological collapse </span>**</span>//
//<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bowers ‘5</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought “Is transformative learning the trojan horse of western globalization?,” </span><span class="berief">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Journal of Transformative Education</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, 3 (2), pg. 116-125 </span>// www.cabowers.net/pdf/Transformative%20theorist-Commons.pdf]
It is important to acknowledge that the rise of liberal/Enlightenment ideasin the late
AND
that these earlier liberal theorists were unaware of. Pg. 9-15



<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Our K epistemologically indicts the entirety of the 1AC- emphasis on liberal conceptions of social justice and progress reinforce enlightenment thinking incompatible with conservation </span>**</span>
<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bowers ‘8</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought,) </span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Transitions: Educational Reforms that Promote Ecological Intelligence or the Assumptions Underlying Modernity</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">?]</span>

Yet there continue to be differences between how liberals understand the nature of progress.
AND
discourse that addresses what needs to be conserved. Pg. 87-89


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our kritik links to their rhetorical strategy, not their goals. Social justice necessitates an individualistic relation to the world incompatible with environmental protection </span>
<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bowers 07</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought,), “Philosophy, Language, and the Titanic Mind-Set” </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Language & Ecology</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> vol. 2 no.1 2007]</span>
The chief connection between the two questions has to do with the historical roots of
AND
them on a collision course with environmental limits. Pg. 1-3




<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is“the third way.” It facilitates cultural pluralism and paves the way for an ecologically sustainable world </span>**</span>
<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bowers 06</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Renewing the Commons: University Reform in an Era of Weakened Democracy and Environmental Crises</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">,]</span>

The alternative iswhat I shall call “the third way” to curriculum reform.
AND
as people become more involved in the mutual support systems in their community.
The typical response of academics to this proposal for reform will likely be one of
AND
past misconceptions that have led to various forms of enclosure and cultural domination.
The last chapter should end on a note of optimism. Given the analysis in
AND
-industrial andmore ecologically sustainable world? Pg. 19-20 //1nc//

//<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">No Perms- Privileging ecojustice prevents our ecological concerns from just becoming an </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">“add-on” way of thinking </span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">that fails to challenge the cultural assumptions leading to this crisis. The proper framing of the debate is needed to maximize support for transitioning to a sustainable future</span>**</span>//
//<span class="berief">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bowers 06</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Renewing the Commons: University Reform in an Era of Weakened Democracy and Environmental Crises</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">,]</span>//

//While a healthy cultural commons has a proven record of success in enabling cultures in//
//AND//
//and importance of the cultural commons. Pg. 85-87// 1nc
===Cap=== 
**Infrastructure investment is a tool of the capitalist state—people, values and goods all become commodities to be transported**
**Giddens and Held 82** (Anthony and David; M.A. and Ph.D. in economics, Prof. at Cambridge, Director of the London School of Economics, he has 15 honorary degrees; Master of University College, Durham, professor of politics and international relations at Durham University; “Classes, Power and Conflict: Classical and Contemporary Debates”; Pg. 253)RSW

7. Policies which pursue the goal of reorganizing, maintaining and generalizing exchange relationships
AND
of the capitalist state against the obstructive resistance of the capitalist class itself.



**Capitalism results in neo-imperialist wars, the destruction of the environment and the subjugation and genocide of entire sections of the population**
**Everest 12** (Larry; correspondent for Revolution newspaper; 5/24/12; “WAR AND GLOBAL CAPITALISM: “Money for Jobs Not for War”: American Chauvinism and Reformist Illusions” http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=31024)RSW

“Money for Jobs and Education! Jobs and Education, Not War and Occupation
AND
of the people in the U.S. and around the world.


**Alternative text: Reject the affirmative as a means of refusing complicity with capitalism.**

**Rejecting capitalism is key to opening up new alternatives. Only complete refusal, not piecemeal reform, can prevent otherwise inevitable slavery and extinction.**
**Herod, 04** (James, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/4thEd/4-index.htm, Getting Free, 4th Edition
A sketch of an association of democratic, autonomous neighborhoods and how to create it, Fourth Edition, January 2004

It is time to try to describe, at first abstractly and later concretely,
AND
. Otherwise we are doomed to perpetual slavery and possibly even to extinction.



===Daoism=== 
**No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kirkland</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">98</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]</span>
Why It Is Wrong to Resent
AND

the new state of things.

**The alternative is to forego all action to achieve desired ends.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kirkland</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">96</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “The Book of the Way,” 24-29, [[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf]]]</span>

The Teachings of the Daode
AND

can thwart its unceasing operation.

**Suffering is inevitable. Confronted with this fact, any system of ethics will collapse into crippling nihilism. Only the alternative allows a way out – in line with the Tao, we can appreciate existence. Even if they are right about their impacts, that only gives the alt solvency.**
**Lin No Date** – (Derek, Taoist Columnist, “The Salt,” http://www.taoism.net/living/index.htm)//BATMAN

Once upon a time in
AND

the lake you become.
===Market Security=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">‘Security’ politics become sold as a commodity preserving neoliberal economic development that facilitates commodification.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> 20**__08__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 156, MT)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">With the production of (in)security, capital</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> thereby finds itself once more </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">so doing it shores up rather than challenges the logic of state power.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The era of pancapitalism consumes us in it’s commodification of all aspects of life – this is the biggest impact in the round</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bey 97</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (Hakim, an American political writer, essayist, and poet, Studied at Columbia University. //The Obelisk,// </span>[[http://www.t0.or.at/hakimbey/obelisk.htm%5D|__http://www.t0.or.at/hakimbey/obelisk.htm__]]//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">, </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">May 1st 1997, MT)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Analogously, since 1989-91 </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">we have entered a new "dark age</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">" </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. This, then, is the hermetic crisis of the tactical media.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The alternative is to reject the aff as a means of labeling the 1AC speech act as a means of imagery commodification. This is key to exposing the cracks in the system – every rejection is key</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bey</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> 19</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">93</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (Hakim; Ontological Anarchist of the Information Age; </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.hermetic.com/bey/boundary.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">, MT)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">I'll admit that my own taste might run toward an even more violent approach to </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">: -- one, ten, a thousand occult assaults on the institutions.ma</span>
===Bataille=== 
====<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Short Shell</span>==== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Excess is inevitable – the 1AC’s attempt to contain and transcend it through utility inevitably fails** </span>
**Land 92** – lecturer in Continental Philosophy at Warwick University (Nick, “The Thirst for Annihilation” pg. 23-24)[rkezios]
Belonging alongside ‘sacrifice’ in Bataille’s work is the word ‘expenditure’, dépense.
AND
of a true end, which does not serve anything’ [VII 298].

**Our alternative is to refuse the 1ac’s utilitarian ethics as a revolutionary act of sacrifice – that’s the only way to reverse nuclear annihilation, slavery and escape the current political order**
**Goldhammer 5** - Ph.D. in political science from the University of California, Berkeley (Jesse, “The Headless Republic”, pg 10-14)[rkezios]
In chapter 4, I examine how the renegade surrealist Georges Bataille used the sacrificial
AND
sign that a community in crisis is pregnant with a new political order.

====K aff Shell==== 
<span class="TitleChar">**The 1AC posits value in accumulation and production, destroying any value not found in utility. Instead we must restore the sacredness of expenditure and excess.**</span>
**Land 92** – lecturer in Continental Philosophy at Warwick University (Nick, “The Thirst for Annihilation” pg. 23-24)[rkezios]

<span class="TitleChar">Belonging alongside ‘sacrifice’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Bataille’s work </span><span class="TitleChar">is the word ‘</span>expenditure’<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, dépense. </span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of a true end, which does not serve anything’ [VII 298].</span>

**Morality is nothing more than an obsession of utility, structuring reality into the ‘good’ and ‘evil’**
**Itzkowitz 99 –** Assoc Prof Philosophy at Marietta College (Kenneth, //College Literature// 26.1)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bataille rejects the notion of a unified good. When he criticizes the moral good</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
, the practitioner of vice<span class="TitleChar">;</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the role model would be closer to Sade</span>

**Utility fetishism results in a destructive telos – it finds fault in reality and strives to ‘fix it’ – the impact is ressantimant. The only escape is through a chaotic embrace of life.**
**Turanli 3** (Aydan, Associate Prof. at Istanbul Technical University, “Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein: An Offense to the Quest for Another World,” The Journal of Nietzsche Studies issue 26 pg 55-63)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The craving for absolutely general specifications results in doing metaphysics. Unlike Wittgenstein, Nietzsche </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"to show the fly the way out of the fly-bottle"</span>

**Turns racism**
<span class="TitleChar">**Baudrillard 76** (Jean, “Symbolic Exchange and Death”, pg. 125-126)[rkezios]</span>

Racism is modern<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Previous races or cultures were ignored or eliminated, but never </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">serving as their model: the exclusion of the dead and of death.</span>

**Our alternative is to refuse the 1ac’s utilitarian ethics as a revolutionary act of sacrifice – that’s the only way to reverse nuclear annihilation, slavery and escape the current political order**
**Goldhammer 5** - Ph.D. in political science from the University of California, Berkeley (Jesse, “The Headless Republic”, pg 10-14)[rkezios]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In chapter 4, I examine how the renegade surrealist Georges Bataille used the sacrificial </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">sign that a community in crisis is pregnant with a new political order.</span>

<span class="TitleChar">**All action mutilates the totality of our existence, tapering it off in subordination to a goal. Only through positive processes of enactment can we truly encounter freedom**</span>
<span class="TitleChar">**Bataille 45** (Georges, “On Nietzsche”, pg. xxiii-xxv)[rkezios]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nonetheless, I don't want my inclination to make fun of myself or act comic </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__pleasure, holiness, or death.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Entirety jacks further tasks to fulfill.)</span>

===Kappeler=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The affirmative’s concept of violence as external from their own lives allows individuals to abdicate their responsibility. Denial of our individual culpability with violence forecloses the possibility of meaningful change; in the process, violence becomes more likely. </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">KAPPELER IN 1995</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Susanne Kappeler, //The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior,// pg 1-4]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What is striking is that the </span>__violenc__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">e which is talked about </span>__is always the violence__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">is am unmistakable signal to society that racist violence does indeed 'pay off'.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Political violence is sustained by organized thinking that looks at violence through meta-analysis. We need to have deeper insight that realizes that each of us are culpable for violence. This is integral to ending the cycle of violence.</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">KAPPELER IN 1995</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Susanne Kappeler, //The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior,// pg 8-11]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; text-align: left;">Moreover, personal behaviour is no alternative to `political' action; there is no </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; text-align: left;">AND</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">and that there is no such thing as not acting or doing nothing.</span>__</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Their inter-subjective understanding of violence reduces the people they discuss to instruments that can be pillaged. </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">KAPPELER IN 1995</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Susanne Kappeler, //The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior,// pg 124-128]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; text-align: left;">The terms may indeed be troublesome if we wish them to mean the opposite of </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; text-align: left;">AND</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">`its relationship', and hence puts its own `end' to it.</span>__</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We need to interrogate our own will to violence; only be politicizing the way we think about violence can we find ways to end the cycle of violence. </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">KAPPELER IN 1995</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Susanne Kappeler, //The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior,// pg 4-5]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If we nevertheless continue to explain violence by its ‘circumstances’ and attempt to counter </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">for any political struggle against </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">violence and for a non-violent society</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
===Security=== 
**Enmity motivated by security will cause extinction, the threats they name aren~’t real but are invented by leaders manipulating us.**
**Mack**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> 19</span>**88**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. "The Enemy System" 1988. [[</span>http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html-http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html]]<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, MT)</span>
The threat of nuclear annihilation has stimulated us to try to understand what it is
AND
communication of this reality must become a major focus of our educational system.

**Our alternative is to reject the security fetishism of the 1AC, their flawed methodology and discourse to eschew the logic of security.**
**Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy**
**Cheeseman** and **Bruce**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> 19</span>**96**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Graeme, Senior Lecturer at the University of New South Wales, and Robert, Associate Professor in social sciences at Curtin university, "Discourses of Danger %26 Dread Frontiers", p. 5-8, MT)</span>
This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of
AND
resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?

**The alternative solves - breaking out of our obsession with security allows alternative relationships to the future - their predictions are ideologically loaded and suspect.**
**Neocleous**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> 20</span>**08**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics %26 History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. "CRITIQUE OF SECURITY" 2008. Pg. 185-186, MT)</span>
The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is
AND
; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.143
==T/Procedurals== 
===Broadband=== 
**Interpretation:**
**Communication infrastructure is distinct from transportation infrastructure**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">IEDC 12</span> (International Economic Development Council, “Economic Development Reference Guide”, http://www.iedconline.org/?p=Guide_Infrastructure)

Infrastructure encompasses existing //transportation//,
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> networks Local area networks (LAN)</span>
===Loan Guarantees=== 
**A) interpretation - Investment in infrastructure is capital spending – prefer //intent to define//**
**CBO, 9** – Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October, [[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf]])
In this analysis, investment in infrastructure is defined as capital spending on transportation,
AND
which is formed by spending on educational programs or on research and development.

**B. Violation – the aff uses loan guarantees – those are distinct from federal funding**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Ward 11**</span>Elizabeth Ward, Elizabeth was awarded an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh and an MS ChE from Polytechnic Institute of NYU, worked as a chemical engineer for both the US EPA in DC, and at DuPont before becoming a banker, then consultant with Washington Advisors MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011 Solyandra was a Loan Not a Venture Capital Investment [[http://greenrisks.blogspot.com/2011/11/solyandra-was-loan-not-venture-capital.html]] BK
Thursday, Energy Secretary Steven Chu sat through more than five hours of questioning by
AND
program to aid viable projects in obtaining loans to build commercial scale projects.


===Maintenance=== 
**Interpretation: “Transport investment” must be new infrastructure, not repairs or maintenance**
**Collenette 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hon. David M. Collenette, P.C., M.P. Minister of Transportation of Canada Transportation in Canada 1999 annual reporthttp://publications.gc.ca/collections/Collection/T1-10-1999E.pdf BK</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whether </span>__made by__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> business or </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">existing infrastructure, machinery and equipment.</span>


===Military=== 
**Infrastructure is physical capital that provides public services – it excludes the military**
**Fourie 6**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM</span>
One way to define infrastructure is to describe it in terms of its characteristics.
AND
, while urban planners might refer to them as transportation modalities and utilitcies.

**Transportation infrastructure services are strictly limited to facilitating private economic activity**
**Musick, 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Congressional Budget Office~’s Microeconomic Studies Division (Nathan, "Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,"</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf-http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]]</span>

Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on two types
AND
those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).
==Disads== 
===De Dev=== 
**Collapse of society is inevitable—it’s better to have it now than to have a catastrophic one in the future**
**MacKenzie 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Debora, Are We Doomed, New Scientist, Vol. 197 Issue 2650, p32-35, 4p, 4 May 2005, EBSCO, AMiles) </span>

DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation. Literature and film abound with tales of plague
AND
stagnation or collapse, and in the long run this cannot be sustainable.

**Growth makes eco-collapse inevitable**
Speth, law prof, 8—Served as President Jimmy Carter’s White House environmental
AND
Crossing from Crisis to Sustainability, Gigapedia, 6-9, AMiles)

But the much larger and more threatening impacts stem from the economic activity of those
AND
modern capitalism, in each case seeking to identify the transformative changes needed.



**Extinction**
**Chen 2k**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Professor of Law and Vance K. Opperman Research Scholar, University of Minnesota Law School (Jim, Globalization and Its Losers, Winter 2000, 9 Minn. J. Global Trade 157, Lexis, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ellipses in original </span>

Conscious decisions to allow the extinction of a species or the destruction of an entire
AND
Homo sapiens -- in ten million years, perhaps a hundred million. 348
===Nonfalsifiability=== 
**Non-falsifiability disproves their methodology and causes extinction**
**Coyne, 06**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)</span>
Supernatural forces and events, essential
AND
<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span>
====<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Bataille Link</span>==== 
**The K is non-falsifiable**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Olson, 94</span> – professor of philosophy at Allegheny College, masters in theological studies from the University of Dallas, (Carl, “Eroticism, violence, and sacrifice: A postmodern theory of religion and ritual,” Method & Theory in the Study of Religion, ProQuest)//JKahn
4. Eroticism and death Without
AND
sacrificial victim and society .

===Status Gap=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic growth is diffusing globally, enabling the “rise of the rest”—the U.S. is encouraging integration of emerging powers</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Berliner</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, director at the NDN</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Jake Berliner, Deputy Policy Director of the New Democratic Network’s Globalization Initiative, April 23, 2010, “The Rise of the Rest: How New Economic Powers are Reshaping the Globe,” online: [[http://ndn.org/essay/2010/04/rise-rest-how-new-economic-powers-are-reshaping-globe]] __G-Berg__)</span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span>__structure of the global__
AND

__of the new global economy.__



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The plan’s increase of the material power gap causes global backlash against U.S. power that makes effective leadership impossible.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Maher</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Ph.D. in pol sci, </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">11</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Richard Maher, Ph.D. in Political Science from Brown University, Winter 2011, “The Paradox of American Unipolarity: Why the United States May Be Better Off in a Post-Unipolar World,” Orbis, Vol. 55, No. 1, p. 53-68 __G-Berg__)</span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Since the disintegration of the </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>

__itself in the ‘‘post-unipolar’’ world.__



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. acceptance of China’s and Russia’s rising status is key to cooperation on terrorism, prolif, and north korea</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Larson</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, pol sci prof, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">10—</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Larson & Shevchenko 10 – Deborah Welch Larson, Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Los Angeles, and Alexei Shevchenko, Assistant Professor of Political Science at California State University, Fullerton, Spring 2010, “Status Seekers: Chinese and Russian Responses to U.S. Primacy,” International Security, Vol. 34, No. 4, p. 63-95 __G-Berg__)</span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Since the end of the </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>

__some elements of social competition.__




===Red Spread=== 
**The Soviet Lion is far from Dead- one by one the nations of the free world are falling to the Communist Menace- Militarism and Strength now is Key**
**NYQUIST 03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., Defence Analyst, April 28, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jrnyquist.com/nyquist_2003_0428.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
The source of the conflict is basic. According to Popov, “our progressive
AND
Russia’s president. Germany is now tied to Russia with hoops of steel.


**Their “kissy happy time” policy is traitorous and aids the Reds- their grand shift away from militarism opens the floodgates to Soviet Nuclear Strike. Their hippie philosophy ignores the reality of the USSR**
**NYQUIST 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R. Nyquist, a WorldNetDaily contributing editor and a renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations, is the author of "Origins of the Fourth World War." http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19774)</span>
The greatest danger facing America is a possible nuclear attack from Russia. This danger
AND
almost hear Russia's top generals saying, "Let us test the Americans."


**Soviet biological and nuclear attacks will kill millions and plunge the world into a New Dark Age, turning Case**
**NYQUIST 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R. Nyquist, a WorldNetDaily contributing editor and a renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations, is the author of "Origins of the Fourth World War." http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19773)</span>
In Russian thinking, a nuclear war is not simply an exchange of nuclear strikes
AND
the rubble of cities already bombed would be a laughable kind of deterrence.

===Navy Budget=== 
**FY 2013 Navy modernization budget stable**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AIAA 6/11/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Deconstructing the defense budget”, [[http://www.militaryaerospace.com/news/2012/06/11/deconstructing-the-defense-budget.html]], Hemanth)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Early this year, the Obama administration issued guidelines for a new national defense strategy </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.1 billion for 12 Boeing EA-18 Growler electronic warfare aircraft.</span>

**Plan trades off with Naval modernization—accesses a bigger internal link to the case**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Peterson 2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gordon, Capt. Gordon I. Peterson, U.S. Navy (Ret.) has served as the military legislative assistant for Senator Jim Webb of Virginia since January 2007. He is responsible for liaison to the Senate Armed Services Committee and oversight of military issues relating to all branches of the U.S. armed forces, the senior editor of Sea Power magazine since 1998, “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida: A Critical Assessment”, [[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]], Hemanth)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given this extraordinary financial crisis, the need to reduce non-critical federal spending</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
//only be funded at the expense of existing military construction and modernization projects.//

**External impact – modernization is key to BMD**
**O’Rourke 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, June 10, 2010, Navy Aegis Cruiser and Destroyer Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RS22595.pdf/)//BATMAN</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>Navy<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">’s</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> proposed FY2011 budget requests funding for one </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Aegis cruiser </span>modernization<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> availability, 10 </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">get more BMD-capable DDG-51s into the fleet sooner</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. 12</span>

**Missile defense key to econ and the grid**
**__Lambakis__**20**__07__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Steven, Fellow at the National Institute for Public Policy, Managing Editor of Comparative Strategy, A Leading International Journal of Global Affairs and Strategic Studies, National Security and International Affairs Analyst Specializing in Space Power and Policy Studies, “Missile Defense From Space”, 2-17-07, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/02/missile_defense_from_space.html|__http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/02/missile_defense_from_space.html__]])</span>

__<span style="background-color: lime;">The ballistic missile threat</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to the United States, its deployed forces, and allies </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">space defenses would deliver an improved missile defense system, pursuing this course of</span>

**Economic decline causes nuclear & bio-war**
**National Review ‘8**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[National Review Online, October 28, 2008 Kerpen, policy director for Americans for Prosperity From Panic to Depression?, [[@http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=OWQ3ZGYzZTQyZGY4ZWFiZWUxNmYwZTJiNWVkMTIxMmU=]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It’s important that we avoid all these policy errors</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> — not just for the sake </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">of such extended duration </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">would risk armed conflicts on an even greater scale</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**grid Collapse causes extinction**
**Adams ‘11**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Mike Adams; Editor-in-Chief and founder of Natural News Network, Mike has authored over 1800 articles on environmental and health issues and authored 11 books. This article draws its information from sources including The International Business Times Science, The World Nuclear Association, National Geographic, and NASA; “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns” Sept. 13th 2011;] [[http://www.naturalnews.com/033564_solar_flares_nuclear_power_plants.html]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Imagine a world </span>without electricity<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Even for just a week. Imagine New York </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
means a<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> near-total </span>collapse of the human population<span style="font-size: 7pt;">on our planet.na</span>
===Politics=== 
====Immigration - Ethics==== 
**We have a moral obligation to support comprehensive reform –solves exploitation and takes a stand against unethical practices – this is the politics of invisibility – we refuse to contemplate those that are affected by our decisions**
**Noorani 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ali, Executive Director of the Reform Immigration FOR America campaign and National Immigration Forum, Why We Must Continue Pushing for Comprehensive Immigration Reform, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://immigration.change.org/blog/view/why_we_must_continue_pushing_for_comprehensive_immigration_reform]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">There are 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States today. And there </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">comprehensive reform to all 11 million undocumented immigrants, leaving no one behind.</span>

**This supports a system of power of domination – causes war and destruction** 
**LaBalme 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Fen, //Activism.net,// “Activism: Pease: NVCD: Discrimination,” 2002, http://www.activism.net/peace/nvcdh/discrimination.shtml, accessed July 2, 2009). </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this action, </span>__our struggle is__ __not only against missiles and bombs, but__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that nonviolence begins at home, in the ways we treat each other. </span>

**It will culminate in extinction – we control the scale of violence**
**Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn)(Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization).</span>
====Immigration - Bio Terror==== 
**Skilled worker access will determine the future of the biotech industry**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dahms 3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (executive director of the California State University System Biotechnology Program (CSUPERB); chair of the Workforce Committee, Biotechnology Industry Organization; and a member of the ASBMB Education and Professional Development Committee, (A. Stephen, “ Foreign Scientists Seen Essential to U.S. Biotechnology,” in Pan-Organizational Summit on the U.S. Science and Engineering Workforce: Meeting Summary, National Academy of Sciences, [[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bookshelf/picrender.fcgi?book=nap10727&blobtype=pdf]])</span>
The scarcity of skilled technicians is seen by the biotech<span class="TitleChar">nology </span>industry<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the U.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">directed toward influencing greater congressional and federal agency attention to these important topics. </span>

**Solves bioterror**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bailey, 1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ronald, award-winning science correspondent for Reason magazine and Reason.com, where he writes a weekly science and technology column. Bailey is the author of the book Liberation Biology: The Moral and Scientific Case for the Biotech Revolution (Prometheus, 2005), and his work was featured in The Best American Science and Nature Writing 2004. In 2006, Bailey was shortlisted by the editors of Nature Biotechnology as one of the personalities who have made the "most significant contributions" to biotechnology in the last 10 years. 11/7/1, “The Best Biodefense,” Reason, [[http://reason.com/archives/2001/11/07/the-best-biodefense]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But Cipro and other antibiotics are just a small part of the arsenal that could </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">, </span>America’s best biodefense is a vital and profitable pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Extinction**
Steinbrenner, 97
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John Steinbrenner, Senior Fellow – Brookings, Foreign Policy, 12-22-1997, Lexis</span>

<span class="TitleChar">Although human pathogens are often lumped with nuclear explosives</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and lethal chemicals as potential </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">for a global contagion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this sort </span><span class="TitleChar">but not necessarily its outer limit.</span>
====Fiscal Cliff - Econ==== 
**Failure to compromise on the fiscal cliff causes __global economic collapse__**
**Dadush, 11/7**-senior associate and director of Carnegie’s International Economics Program, previous World Bank director of international trade and director of economic policy [Uri, “U.S. fiscal cliff risks dragging global economy into darkness,” [[http://edition.cnn.com/2012/11/07/business/opinion-dadush-obama-economy/index.html]], ALB]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One thing is certain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the immediate aftermath of a grueling and divisive campaign</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">accept phased tax increases</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- both departing from their diametrically opposed electoral platforms.</span>


**Global economic decline causes extinction**
**Aulin and Lachman, 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">–Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute AND fellow at the American Enterprise Institute [Michael and Desmon, “The Global Economy Unravels, Forbes, [[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]], ALB]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conversely, global policymakers do not seem to have grasped the downside risks to the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
may be<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a series of small explosions that coalesce into </span>a big bang<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
====Fiscal Cliff - Warming==== 

**Compromise on fiscal cliff paves the way for second term Obama agenda-INCLUDING action on climate change, immigration reform, and education investment**
**Montgomery and Goldfarb, 11/6** [Lori and Zachary, The Washington Post, “Fresh from reelection, president finds himself on edge of ‘fiscal cliff,’ [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/decision2012/fiscal-cliff-clock-starts-in-earnest-as-election-fades-to-background/2012/11/06/c4dfde6e-27b2-11e2-b2a0-ae18d6159439_story.html]], ALB]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>Obamareturns<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to Washington</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the campaign trail Wednesday </span>to face an epic year
AND
also “//give confidence that the political system can address a major issue.”//

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>__**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Tickell ‘8** (Oliver, Climate Researcher, “On a Planet 4C Hotter, All We Can Prepare for is Extinction,” The Guardian, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We need to get prepared for [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2008/aug/06/climatechange.scienceofclimatechange|four degrees of global warming]], Bob Watson told </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
warming caused by human emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===Elections=== 
====China Bashing==== 
**Romney will label China a currency manipulator-that causes a trade war**
**Shobert, 12**-Managing Director of Rubicon Strategy Group, also author of upcoming book Blame China, [Benjamin A.,“Romney lays ground for China trade war,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/NB22Cb01.html]]</span>, ALB]
Part of what Romney wrote aligns with his early September 2011 economic plan, where
AND
American imagination, and one American politics seems bent on making a reality.

China bashing will undermine cooperation on North Korea and warming
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">NYT 10</span> [“Eye on China, House Votes for Greater Tariff Powers,” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/30/business/30currency.html?_r=1&src=un&feedurl=http%3A%2F%2Fjson8.nytimes.com%2Fpages%2Fpolitics%2Findex.jsonp]
The Obama administration never took an emphatic position on the legislation and some officials say
AND
this bill because it signals to China that Congress’s patience is running out.”

Extinction – north korea
Pat <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Fungamwango</span> October 25, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1999</span> Africa-at-Large; Third world war: Watch the Koreas Africa News
Lusaka - If there is one place today where the much-dreaded Third World
AND
few days ago that it was moving towards normalising relations with North Korea.


====Financial Regulations==== 
**Republican administration would halt financial regulation-causes global economic crisis**
**Konczal, 12**-fellow at the Roosevelt Institute ~~[Michael, "Financial Regulation," Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/financial_regulation034477.php-http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/financial_regulation034477.php]], ALB~~]====
Immediately after the GOP took the House last year, Alabama Republican and chairman of
AND
White House and Congress in each of the major battlegrounds on financial reform.


**Global economic decline causes extinction**
**Aulin and Lachman, 9** –Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute AND fellow at the American Enterprise Institute ~~[Michael and Desmon, "The Global Economy Unravels, Forbes, [[http://www.aei.org/article/100187-http://www.aei.org/article/100187]], ALB~~]
Conversely, global policymakers do not seem to have grasped the downside risks to the
AND
may be a series of small explosions that coalesce into a big bang.
==Round Reports== 
===Greenhill=== 
====Round 2 - Loyola FM==== 
Aff: Increase port infrastructure in Guam
Advantages: China deterrence, Terrorism

1nc:
T military
Security K
Delegations CP
Port Improvement CP
Obama Good

2nr: Security

====Round 3 - Centennial KM==== 
Aff: Climate Resiliency
Advantage: Econ

1nc:
T maintenance
Security K
States CP
Elections

2nr: T maintenance

====Round 5 - Lexington AM==== 
Aff: Guam Road Networks
Advantages: Japan Alliance, South China Sea deterrence

1nc:
T military
Security K
Japan Withdrawal CP
Obama Good

2nr: Japan Withdrawal CP and Obama Good

===Longbeach=== 
====Round 1 - Juan Diego MF==== 
Aff: Defense Access Roads
Advanages:

1nc:
T military
Security K
States CP
Elections DA

2nr: Security K
====Round 4 - Northwood WW==== 
Aff: Bering Strait
Advantages: Russian Relations, Racism

1nc:
Bataille K
Imagination CP
Elections DA
Red Spread DA

2nr: Bataille K
====Round 6 - CPS AH==== 
Aff: Mayport
Advantages: Heg, Venezuelan Instability

1nc:
T military
Security K
States CP
Elections

2nr: Florida CP and Elections

===Saint Mark's=== 
====Round 1 - Liberal Arts & Science HS==== 
Aff: US Congress should pass the Realize America Maritime Promise Act
Advantages: Trade, LNG, Ag

1nc:
T capital spending
Cap K
Delegations CP
Elections DA

2nr: Cap K

====Round 4 - Barstow ML==== 
Aff: NIB
Advantages: Econ, Competitiveness

1nc:
T Broadband
T Loan Guarantees
Cap K
States CP
Elections DA

2nr: Cap K

====Round 6 - Berkeley Prep DX==== 
Aff: NIB
Advantages: Slow Growth, Elections

1nc:
T Loan Guarantees
Privatization CP
Elections DA

2nr: Privatization CP

===Meadows=== 
====Round 1 - Juan Diego CH==== 
Aff: Defense Access Roads
Advantages: Deterrence (china, north korea, iran scenarios)

1nc:
T military
Security K
Status Gap DA
States CP
Elections DA

2nr: Status Gap DA

====Round 4 - CPS HY==== 
Aff: Dredging
Advantages: Trade, Ag

1nc:
States CP
Cap K
T maintenance
Elections

2nr: Cap K

====Round 6 - Green Valley JH==== 
Aff: ITS
Advantages: Econ, Bioterror

1nc:
T Infrastructure
T Vehicles
States CP
Elections
Security K

2nr: Security K

===Glenbrooks=== 
====Round 2 - MBA SW==== 
Aff: Disabilities
Advantages: The advantage, existential risk bad

1nc:
Framework
T Maintenance
States CP
Kappeler K
Fiscal Cliff Politics DA

2nr: Kappeler K

====Round 3 - Kinkaid RT==== 
Aff: Transportation Apartheid
Advantage: Racism, Existential risk bad

1nc:
T Vehicles
NEPA CP
Fiscal Cliff Politics DA
Kappeler K
Bataille K

2nr: Bataille K

====Round 6 - CPS GY==== 
Aff: Mayport
Advantages: Heg, Topicality

1nc:
T Military
Security K
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA

2nr: Security

===Alta=== 
====Round 1 - West BN==== 
Aff: Remove dams
Advantages: Bio-D, Anthro Bad

1nc:
T increase
Delegations CP
Bataille K
Fiscal Cliff Politics DA

2nr: Bataille K

====Round 3 - CPS BG==== 
Aff - Whiteness
Advantages - Eventalism, Assemblage

1nc:
Nietzsche K
Mann K
Eco Justice K

2nr: Nietzsche K

====Round 5 - Lone Peak SM==== 
Aff - HSR
Advantages - Peak Oil, Econ

1nc:
T Vehicles
Cap K
De Dev DA
Fiscal Cliff Politics DA
Biofuels Advantages CP

2nr: Cap K

===Emory=== 
====Round 1 - Cairo AD==== 
Aff: Gas Tax
Advantages: Energy Policy, Manufacturing

1nc:
T Capital Spending
Cap K
Immigration Politics DA
Non Fund CP

2nr: Non Fund CP and Immigration

====Round 4 - Katy Taylor KR==== 
Aff: Anti-Aesthetics
Advantages: Bataille

1nc:
Daoism K
Mann K
Kappeler K
Nonfalsifiablity DA

2nr: Kappeler K + case turns

====Round 5 - Baltimore City College MB==== 
Aff: Biopolitics of Disposability
Advantages: Disposability Bad

1nc:
Nietzsche K
Ecojustice K

2nr: Nietzsche K

===Golden Desert=== 
====Round 1 - Highland AB==== 
Aff: Neon Violets
Advantages: Structural Violence

1nc:
Nietzsche K
Diversity Forums CP
Framework

2nr: Diversity Forums CP

====Round 4 - Bishop Guertin ID==== 
Aff: Dredging
Advantages: Trade, Manufacturing

1nc:
Security K
HMTF Firewalls CP
T maintenance
Immigration Politics DA

2nr: Security K

====Round 6 - Rowland Hall BG==== 
Aff: CCS
Advantages: South China Sea Instability, Warming

1nc:
Delegations CP
Immigration Politics DA
T pipelines
Bataille K

2nr: Bataille K

====Doubles - St. Vincent De Paul KY==== 
Aff: On The Road
Advantages: Deconstruction

1nc:
Cap K
Diversity Forums CP
Agonism

2nr: Agonism and Diversity Forums CP

====Octas - Westminster LP==== 
Aff: NIB
Advantages: Econ, Heg

1nc:
Market Security K
T increase
Privatization CP
Immigration Politics DA

2nr: Market Security

====Quarters - CPS GY==== 
Aff: Mayport
Advantages: Heg

1nc:
Security K
T military
Florida CP
Navy Budget DA

2nr: Navy Budget DA and case

===Berkeley=== 
====Round 1 - BAUDL TW==== 
Aff: New Orleans
Advantages: Racism

1nc:
T In = throughout
Bataille K
Delegations CP
Immigration Politics DA

2nr: T in = throughout

====Round 3 - Los Alamos BB==== 
Aff: Space Elevator
Advantages: Debris, Ozone, Water Shortages, Military Readiness, Econ

1nc:
T in
Security K
Tower CP
Immigration Politics DA

2nr: Security K

====Round 5 - Polytech MW==== 
Aff: Natives
Advantages: Structural Violence

1nc:
Give Back the Land K
Bataille K
Tribal PIC

2nr: Tribal PIC

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]