[[toc]]
**Note: Centennial KM** **will put __ALL__ cites up on the wiki after the round in which they are read. Please __DON'T__ e-mail Srinidhi or Michael during the TOC for cite requests. Instead, please e-mail Scott Brown at sbrowndebate@gmail.com.**
=Round 1 - Neg vs. Kinkaid= 
===1NC - T Humans=== 

They’re not topical - Space exploration must include direct human presence.

Logsdon ’09 professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)

Many believe that the only sustainable rationale for a government-funded

This policy seems totally consistent with the definition of exploration provided in the MIT white paper.

Development does too

Livingston ’07 former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)

Eric Westling is a science writer, pundit on science,

He defines space development as the rapid expansion of manned commercial projects in space.

This is a voting issue

Limits: There is an unlimited range of space technology and passive observation. Staffed missions key to check.
Ground: Staffed missions are key to domestic/international neg ground. Affs that launch on satellite or reorient a telescope have big impacts but don’t link to anything.
===1NC - Politics=== 

Student loan agreement inevitable – Obama pushing for tax increase to maintain low interest – Republicans fighting to cut health-care

Arizona Daily Star 4/26

Tax hike is barrier; GOP would prefer to tap health fund, Republicans push back on student loans

Mcclatchy Newspapers Mcclatchy Newspapers | Posted: Thursday, April 26, 2012 12:00 am | Comments

http://azstarnet.com/news/national/govt-and-politics/republicans-push-back-on-student-loans/article_4cd7b80c-e17c-52ff-95dd-a1376c92685e.html

WASHINGTON - For a brief moment

and is likely to keep the visa program as is.
Student Loans inevitable – Obama majorly investing pol cap and winning now to save the Prevention and Public Health Fund

Fram 4/26

THE ASSOCIATED PRESS April 26, 2012, 4:46PM ET text size: TT, Political battle over student loans heating up, ALAN FRAM, WASHINGTON, http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-04/D9UCR8EO0.htm

House Speaker John Boehner said Thursday that President Barack Obama was acting "beneath the dignity of the White House"

Senate Republicans have said they support keeping loan interest rates down for another year but oppose the Democrats' way of paying for it.
The plan destroys the compromise and forces huge political capital – finding funding for space policy is an enormous political challenge

Powell ’09 chron.com, NASA's mission for billions more may be an uphill battle, September 12, Stewart Powell

WASHINGTON — NASA supporters are bracing for an uphill battle to get the extra funding needed to take on missions more ambitious than visits to the international space station.

“If we see a lot of questions about additional spending at that hearing, we'll know we have trouble,” said one congressional staffer, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Earth science funding is unpopular – seen as a tradeoff with human spaceflight

Sheppard ’11 Kate, 2/11/11, http://motherjones.com/blue-marble/2011/02/republican-climate-nasa-budget, Mother Jones, “Taking Climate Denial to a New Level”

The spending plan the House GOP was supposed to roll out on Thursday included a number of cuts meant to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from doing anything about climate change

the earth science program accounted for a mere 7.5 percent of NASA's total budget.

Prevention and Public Health Fund solves economic security – stems disease rates and skyrocketing healthcare costs – biggest internal link to the economy

Pittman 4/27

The false choice of student loans and prevention, By Mary A. Pittman, president and chief executive officer, Public Health Institute - 04/27/12 09:07 AM ET, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/healthcare/224207-the-false-choice-of-student-loans-and-prevention

The House proposal to subsidize student loans by eliminating the Prevention and Public Health Fund,

Protecting the Prevention and Public Health Fund today is an investment in all of our futures.


Economic declines lead to global conflict

Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10 [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict

This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

===1NC - Adv CP=== 

The United States federal government should deploy sulphate aerosols in the stratosphere in sufficient quantities to stabilize average global temperature at safe levels. The United States federal government should substantially increase its hardening of its space assets
Solves warming

Victor et al, ‘9 (David G. Victor, M. Granger Morgan, Jay Apt, John Steinbruner, and Katharine Ricke, David G. Victor is a Professor at Stanford Law School, Director of Stanford's Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, and an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. M. Granger Morgan is Head of Carnegie Mellon University's Department of Engineering and Public Policy and Director of the Climate Decision Making Center. Jay Apt is Professor of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University. John Steinbruner is Professor of Public Policy and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland. Katharine Ricke is a doctoral student at Carnegie Mellon University., “The Geoengineering Option”, Foreign Affairs, March/April 2009)

Today, the term "geoengineering" refers to a variety of strategies designed to cool the climate.

just one percent (or less) of the cost of dramatically cutting emissions.
Satellite hardening solves for defense

Wilson,’01 (Tom, Space Commission Staff Member, “Threats to United States Space Capabilities” http://www.fas.org/spp/eprint/article05.html#ft86)

D. Hardening

Hardening of a space system's elements is the single most effective survivability measure

Analysts estimate that satellite hardening would increase the total system cost by between two and five percent of the total satellite cost.(88)
===1NC - RACE!=== 

The ethic of the affirmative is a bad one—voting to prioritize space exploration in the face of people suffering daily is a bad ethical choice

Yost, ‘10 [Keith Yost, staff columnist for The Tech, MIT's oldest and largest newspaper published by the undergraduate and graduate students of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2010 (“Point: Spaceman, go home. The U.S. should reduce spending on space exploration,” Published on April 9, 2010 (Volume 130, Issue 18) Available Online at http://tech.mit.edu/V130/N18/nasap.html]

The White House has announced plans to host a conference in Florida on April 15 during which President Obama will unveil his vision for the U.S. space program.

It is time to recognize that mankind has higher priorities than planting flags on planets.
The 1AC’s ignorance of social justice issues is based on a colorblind vision of the future that renders issues of race irrelevant

Bould , ’11 – Professor at the Institiute of Advanced Studies (Mark Bould, Senior Lecturer in Film Studies at the University of the West of England, Professor at the Institiute of Advanced Studies, Co-Editor of Science Fiction Film and Television Journal, Consultant editor of Science Fiction Studies, Advisory editor of The Horror Journal: The International Journal of Horror Studies, Associate editor of Historical Materialism: Research in Critical Marxist Theory, “The Ships Landed Long Ago: Afrofuturism and Black SF”, 2011, http://www.jstor.org/stable/4241520, 171-172)

From the 1950s onwards,

and the desegregation of Little Rock (1957).
Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.

McQuaid Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University ,’07

Kim-; SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;

“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.

Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age.

This essay addresses the fight to make America’s space program—like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.
The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.

DR. CRENSHAW Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. 1997

Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION

This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence

Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness 2like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence
Racism must be rejected through the ballot – moral obligation must come first

MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165

The struggle against racism will be long,

True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

===1NC - UN CP=== 

The United States federal government should multilaterally substantially augment necessary United Nations nanotechnology-enabled space systems beyond the earth’s mesosphere.
First—the CP is competitive—its is the possessive form of it - means the aff requires US ownership

The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, 2009, Fourth Edition, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/its

its (ĭts) adj. The possessive form of it. Used as a modifier before a noun: The airline canceled its early flight to New York.
Second—the CP solves the whole aff—they have no defense of unilateralism—we develop space via cooperation as a United Nations project anchored in the UN’s legal mechanism and forum—initiating cooperation over the aff through the United Nations solves the case better and is key to multilateralism

Hadani, ’10 [Wolfgang Rathgeber is a Scientific Staff Member; Institute of Radio Frequency Engineering and Radar Systems, Kai-Uwe Schrogl is the Director of European Space Policy Institute, Ray A. Williamson, “The Fair and Responsible Use: An International Perspective”, ed. by The European Space Policy Institute, pg. 150-153]

The United Nations through the Committee on Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS) has historically concentrated on two main areas:

Legal instruments should be updated and reinforced to serve as the framework for the fair and responsible use of space.156
US credibility at the UN is in question – increased engagement is key

Brimmers, ’11—Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations, Bureau of International Organization Affairs [Esther Brimmer has a PHD in IR from Oxford, Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations, Bureau of International Organization Affairs September 7th 2011 Remarks at the U.S. Institute of Peace, Sustaining America’s Global Leadership: U.S. Priorities at the United Nations http://www.state.gov/p/io/rm/2011/171747.htm]

So amid these calls for U.S. retrenchment

U.S. engagement in the United Nations is more essential than it has ever been.
Space is a key issue—multilateralism in space key to increase US diplomatic influence and credibility

Sabathier, et. Al, ’06 [September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier is a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf ]

The ISS program,

the departure of a particular nation (or, if the United States chooses to cease participating, of all nations) will reduce U.S. utility to the extent that the aggregate symbol of cooperation is valued.
U.S. multilateralism through the U.N. prevents disease spread, terrorism, war, climate instability and is key to global conflict resolution

Esther Brimmer September 7th 2011 Remarks at the U.S. Institute of Peace, Sustaining America’s Global Leadership: U.S. Priorities at the United Nations http://www.state.gov/p/io/rm/2011/171747.htm

[PHD in IR from Oxford, Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations, Bureau of International Organization Affairs]

Here in the United States, we face our own challenges.

We also know that to respond to these and other threats, U.S. engagement at the United Nations works.
International SSA system solves best under the framework of the UN—allows for international cooperation and space security—unilateral SSA isn’t shared and leads to the perception of the dominant unilateralism

Hitchens, ’05 [Theresa Hitchens, “Safeguarding Space: Building Cooperative Norms to Dampen Negative Trends”, Disarmament Diplomacy, Issue No. 81, Winter 2005]

International cooperation is furthest along on the issue of space debris,

with few or no avenues for waivers (such as those based on cost).

===1NC Debris Adv Ans=== 
Miscalculations don’t result in war – It’s empirically denied, and even if it happens, it won’t escalate.

Lambakis 01 Steven: Senior Analyst, National Institute for Public Policy, Hoover Institution, Managing editor of Comparative Strategy, “Space Weapons: Refuting the Critics” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/3479337.html

Likewise, World War I may have symbolically begun with the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand

the historical pattern is to use every available means to clarify perceptions and to consider decisions that might lead to war or escalation with care, not dispatch.
Russia would never go to war against the U.S. – Russians won’t risk it

Aron 07, Resident scholar and the director of Russian Studies at AEI, 6/29 (Leon, The United States and Russia, http://aei.org/publications/pubID.24606,filter.all/pub_detail.asp)
Yet the probability of a frontal confrontation and a new Cold War remains very remote for at least three reasons

Russia’s defense expenditures in 2005 ($47.77 billion) were less than one-eleventh of what the U.S. spent ($522 billion).[18]
Mutually assured destruction solves.

The Nation – 8/28/08 (“Toward a New New Cold War”, http://www.thenation.com/doc/20080915/cockburn)
As regards disastrous and unnecessary military expenditures,

I would hope there would always be somebody there under such hypothetical circumstances to remind them of these realities."

Squo Solves – newest radar tech in the Air Force’s Space Fence

Marks 3/29

Paul, chief tech correspondent for New Scientist magazine, an international science magazine, “New space radars track small but deadly space junk”, 3/29/2012, http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg21328576.300-new-space-radars-track-small-but-deadly-space-junk.html

Light is about to be shed in tis darkness.

"The fence will address the latter population against which we have had no real protection until now."
No miscalc from debris – hotline between US, China, and Russia

Opall-Rome 2/13

Barbara, staff writer for Space News, “U.S. Wants a Space Debris Hotline With China Patterned on the One With Russia”, 2/13/2012, http://www.spacenews.com/policy/120213-space-debris-hotline-china.html

The U.S. government wants to enlist Russia and China in an international code of conduct for space,

Frank Rose, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state for space and defense policy, said.
Low risk of collision – happens once every 1-5 years and easy to avoid

Stress the fact that a when their evidence says high risk, they mean more than .01% risk of collision… (1:10000 chance)

Eumetsat 3/30

The main purpose of the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) is to deliver weather and climate-related satellite data, images and products– 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, “Space debris and the risks to satellites”, 3/30/12, http://www.eumetsat.int/Home/Main/News/Features/817350?l=en

One definition of the word space is empty –

and Metop-A products for the Space Environment Monitor (SEM) and Global Ozone Monitoring Experiment (GOME) instruments were unavailable for a short period.
No long-term impact on satellites – shift to low altitude microsatellites

David 11

Leonard, staff writer for Space.com, “Ugly truth of space junk: No feasible solutions”, 5/10/11, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/42975224/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/ugly-truth-space-junk-no-feasible-solutions/#.T5cZWLP9kjo

All that being said, can anything be done?

And, nobody will claim somebody else did it."
Solar storms solve debris – speed reentry

Space.com 1/30

“Powerful Sun Storms May Sweep Away Space Junk”, 1/30/2012, http://www.space.com/14413-solar-storms-cleanup-falling-space-junk.html

Violent sun storms that shoot bursts of energy in Earth's direction have the potential to damage satellites and power infrastructures,

the pieces fall back toward the planet, often burning up in the atmosphere.
===1NC Warming Adv Ans=== 

1. No consensus over warming — reject their evidence which relies on the idea on face

Lindzen, Professor of Meteorology at MIT, 2008 (Richard. Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto. Edited by Ernesto Zedillo. “Is the global warming alarm founded on fact?” Page 29-32)

The public discourse on global warming has little in common with the standards of scientific discourse.

general-purpose bureaucrats, and advocates whose livelihood is tied to climate alarmism.
2. No impact – empirics

Willis, et. al, ‘10 [Kathy J. Willis, Keith D. Bennett, Shonil A. Bhagwat & H. John B. Birks (2010): 4 °C and beyond: what did this mean for biodiversity in the past?, Systematics and Biodiversity, 8:1, 3-9, http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/14772000903495833
The most recent climate models and fossil evidence for the early Eocene Climatic Optimum (53–51 million years ago)

rapid cooling immediately after the PETM, or subtle changes in plant–animal interactions (Harrington & Jaramillo, 2007).]
3. TURN – WATER VAPOR

Increased carbon emissions is key to check high altitude water vapor, which outweighs – prefer our evidence – their authors falsify data and their models don’t evaluate water vapor

Andrews, ’10 [January 29, 2010, Michael Andrews, “Dropping Water Vapor Levels are Naturally Negating Carbon's Warming Effects”, http://www.dailytech.com/Dropping+Water+Vapor+Levels+are+Naturally+Negating+Carbons+Warming+Effects+/article17553.htm
***Note – he is citing a peer-reviewed study by Susan Solomon , Karen H. Rosenlof and Robert W. Portmann, John S. Daniel, Sean M. Davis, Todd J. Sanford –research scientists for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Gian-Kasper Plattner – works at Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Sidlerstrasse 5, 3012 Bern, Switzerland

Recently there has been a rash of incidents in which climate alarmists have been embarrassingly caught falsifying data or exaggerating facts and figures.

Thus much of the model based research used to predict warming is likely badly flawed.
4. Failing to connect warming to the issue of racism engages in racial marginalizing and circumvents the environmental environment

Tim Wise April 13th 2011 Tim Wise and White Privilege http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/ [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]

But as troubling as colorblindness can be when evinced by liberals,

but is to weaken the fight for survival.’


5. Specifically, approaching warming without disrupting the racial framework misses the boat – any effort to just solve warming are ineffectual “market-based” approaches that prop up the racial heirarchy

MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8 [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]

[*297] Fear of eroding the hierarchies that define race explains why politicians and other elites have consistently championed ineffectual "market-based approaches" to global warming

"problems, [like global warming] that arise to threaten the predominance of the traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." n52
6. If their causality is true, past emissions make the impact inevitable

Mayer Hillman, Senior Fellow at the Policy Studies Institute, 2007

The Suicidal Planet: How To Prevent Global Climate Catastrophe, p. 25-6

The effects of climate change cannot quickly be reversed by reducing or even eliminating future emissions of greenhouse gases.

While elevated levels of greenhouse gases remain in the atmosphere, additional warming will occur.
7. TURN – SO2

SO2 is holding off global warming now

Warren ‘08

Matthew, Enviromental Writer for the Australian, Temperatures tipped to pause for a decade, May 2, 2008 Friday, Lexis

RISING global temperatures may stall for the next decade,

saying the slowing of the currents may be caused by changes in the saltiness of ocean waters.
Reducing fossil fuel use and emissions reduces the SO2 in the atmosphere

EDIE ‘99

Environmental Data Interactive Exchange 6/99 http://www.edie.net/news/news_story.asp?id=1404

"In the atmosphere, Schlesinger said.

=Round 2 - Aff vs. Meadows (Race Sats)= 

===Plan Text=== 

As a stance against institutional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Michael and I advocate that
The United States federal government should substantially increase its Earth Observation capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.
===Contention 1 - The Inconvenient Truth=== 

Contemporary racism produces an illusion by focusing on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions

BARDNT Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization 1991

Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge

to White America; p.31-33

Racism can be expressed with an iron fist or with a velvet glove. At its coarsest and most unsophisticated, racism uses violence to enforce explicit laws to subjugate and control. Examples of such racism are the practice of slavery in the United States, the genocide of Jews in Nazi Germany, and the system of apartheid in South Africa. The evil of such blatant racism is obvious. Racism also assumes sophisticated forms that depend less on brute force than on psychological methods that dissipate resistance. In such forms, racism may in fact create the illusion that it does not exist and therefore be far more difficult to detect and eliminate. Yet its power to oppress is no less than that of open and blatant racism. Iron fist or velvet glove, the results are the same. For example, under a blatant form of racism, laws explicitly dictate where members of the subjugated race can live, the limits of their education, and the kind of work they must do. As a result, they are undereducated, underemployed, and ghettoized. However, under a more sophisticated system of racism, members of the same race have no explicit restrictions on where they live, no legal limitations on their education, nor on the kind of jobs they can have. Yet, they are still undereducated, underemployed, and ghettoized. It is, of course, emphatically denied that racism exists, but it obviously does exist because of the observable results. It is this sophisticated form that racism has taken in the United States, particularly during the past thirty years, and that we are seeking to describe e and define in this book. If racism is prejudice plus power, then contemporary racism’s greatest power is this ability to create illusions and delude victims and perpetrators alike. It deludes the victims into believing that their rulers have only their best interests at heart. It deludes the dominant group into believing that it is not racist, that it is treating its victims well, and that there is no need to change. This power to create illusions is devastating, for it provides justification to the dominant group for its actions. A few more examples may be helpful here. We have already seen the illusion that is created when racism is described simply in terms of personal prejudice and individual bigotry. As we discussed a few pages earlier, such an understanding of racism does not begin to explain racism’s incredible power. Yet, as long as this illusion is maintained, the energy for change will be focused only on improving individual attitudes and actions, and the actual power of racism which is lodged in society’s systems and institutions will be untouched. Another illustration is the illusion that the victims of racism are responsible for their own plight. Racism’s victims are blamed for their problems in many ways. In our nation’s inner cities, people of color are blamed for the deteriorating condition of their housing, even though it began long before they came there and continued because of their forced overcrowding. They are blamed for their unemployment and underemployment, even though our economic system requires varying degrees of unemployment in order to maintain itself. Amazingly, this illusion is so successful that even the victims of racism often believe that their suffering is a product of their own failures. It is, therefore, a matter of great importance to them, as well as to us, to find ways of exposing the disguises and illusions that hide racism’s power. We will be able to comprehend the definition of racism as prejudice plus power only to the degree that we are able to see this power at work.
The Scenario for Institutional Racism is Climate Denial
The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project

CFR 9/25/11 Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap__the_american__allergy__to_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader__

__NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked between treatises on algae and prehistoric turquoise beads, the study on page 460 of a long-ago issue of the U.S. journal Science drew little attention. "I don't think there were any newspaper articles about it or anything like that," the author recalls. But the headline on the 1975 report was bold: "Are We on the Brink of a Pronounced Global Warming?" And this article that coined the term may have marked the last time a mention of "global warming" didn't set off an instant outcry of angry denial.__ _ EDITOR'S NOTE: Climate change has already provoked debate in a U.S. presidential campaign barely begun. An Associated Press journalist draws on decades of climate reporting to offer a retrospective and analysis on global warming and the undying urge to deny. ___ In the paper, Columbia University geoscientist Wally Broecker calculated how much carbon dioxide would accumulate in the atmosphere in the coming 35 years, and how temperatures consequently would rise. His numbers have proven almost dead-on correct. Meanwhile, other powerful evidence poured in over those decades, showing the "greenhouse effect" is real and is happening. And yet resistance to the idea among many in the U.S. appears to have hardened. What's going on? "The desire to disbelieve deepens as the scale of the threat grows," concludes economist-ethicist Clive Hamilton. He and others who track what they call "denialism" find that its nature is changing in America, last redoubt of climate naysayers. It has taken on a more partisan, ideological tone. Polls find a widening Republican-Democratic gap on climate. Republican presidential candidate Rick Perry even accuses climate scientists of lying for money. Global warming looms as a debatable question in yet another U.S. election campaign. From his big-windowed office overlooking the wooded campus of the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in Palisades, N.Y., Broecker has observed this deepening of the desire to disbelieve. "The opposition by the Republicans has gotten stronger and stronger," the 79-year-old "grandfather of climate science" said in an interview. "But, of course, the push by the Democrats has become stronger and stronger, and as it has become a more important issue, it has become more polarized." The solution: "Eventually it'll become damned clear that the Earth is warming and the warming is beyond anything we have experienced in millions of years, and people will have to admit..." He stopped and laughed. "Well, I suppose they could say God is burning us up." The basic physics of anthropogenic — manmade — global warming has been clear for more than a century, since researchers proved that carbon dioxide traps heat. Others later showed CO2 was building up in the atmosphere from the burning of coal, oil and other fossil fuels. Weather stations then filled in the rest: Temperatures were rising. "As a physicist, putting CO2 into the air is good enough for me. It's the physics that convinces me," said veteran Cambridge University researcher Liz Morris. But she said work must go on to refine climate data and computer climate models, "to convince the deeply reluctant organizers of this world." The reluctance to rein in carbon emissions revealed itself early on. In the 1980s, as scientists studied Greenland's buried ice for clues to past climate, upgraded their computer models peering into the future, and improved global temperature analyses, the fossil-fuel industries were mobilizing for a campaign to question the science. By 1988, NASA climatologist James Hansen could appear before a U.S. Senate committee and warn that global warming had begun, a dramatic announcement later confirmed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), a new, U.N.-sponsored network of hundreds of international scientists. But when Hansen was called back to testify in 1989, the White House of President George H.W. Bush edited this government scientist's remarks to water down his conclusions, and Hansen declined to appear. That was the year U.S. oil and coal interests formed the Global Climate Coalition to combat efforts to shift economies away from their products. Britain's Royal Society and other researchers later determined that oil giant Exxon disbursed millions of dollars annually to think tanks and a handful of supposed experts to sow doubt about the facts. In 1997, two years after the IPCC declared the "balance of evidence suggests a discernible human 1influence on global climate," the world's nations gathered in Kyoto, Japan, to try to do something about it. The naysayers were there as well. "The statement that we'll have continued warming with an increase in CO2 is opinion, not fact," oil executive William F. O'Keefe of the Global Climate Coalition insisted to reporters in Kyoto. The late Bert Bolin, then IPCC chief, despaired. "I'm not really surprised at the political reaction," the Swedish climatologist told The Associated Press. "I am surprised at the way some of the scientific findings have been rejected in an unscientific manner." In fact, a document emerged years later showing that the industry coalition's own scientific team had quietly advised it that the basic science of global warming was indisputable. Kyoto's final agreement called for limited rollbacks in greenhouse emissions. The United States didn't even join in that. And by 2000, the CO2 built up in the atmosphere to 369 parts per million — just 4 ppm less than Broecker predicted — compared with 280 ppm before the industrial revolution. Global temperatures rose as well, by 0.6 degrees C (1.1 degrees F) in the 20th century. And the mercury just kept rising. The decade 2000-2009 was the warmest on record, and 2010 and 2005 were the warmest years on record. Satellite and other monitoring, meanwhile, found nights were warming faster than days, and winters more than summers, and the upper atmosphere was cooling while the lower atmosphere warmed — all clear signals greenhouse warming was at work, not some other factor. The impact has been widespread. An authoritative study this August reported that hundreds of species are retreating toward the poles, egrets showing up in southern England, American robins in Eskimo villages. Some, such as polar bears, have nowhere to go. Eventual large-scale extinctions are feared. The heat is cutting into wheat yields, nurturing beetles that are destroying northern forests, attracting malarial mosquitoes to higher altitudes. From the Rockies to the Himalayas, glaciers are shrinking, sending ever more water into the world's seas. Because of accelerated melt in Greenland and elsewhere, the eight-nation Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Program projects ocean levels will rise 90 to 160 centimeters (35 to 63 inches) by 2100, threatening coastlines everywhere. "We are scared, really and truly," diplomat Laurence Edwards, from the Pacific's Marshall Islands, told the AP before the 1997 Kyoto meeting. Today in his low-lying home islands, rising seas have washed away shoreline graveyards, saltwater has invaded wells, and islanders desperately seek aid to build a seawall to shield their capital. The oceans are turning more acidic, too, from absorbing excess carbon dioxide. Acidifying seas will harm plankton, shellfish and other marine life up the food chain. Biologists fear the world's coral reefs, home to much ocean life and already damaged from warmer waters, will largely disappear in this century. The greatest fears may focus on "feedbacks" in the Arctic, warming twice as fast as the rest of the world. The Arctic Ocean's summer ice cap has shrunk by half and is expected to essentially vanish by 2030 or 2040, the U.S. National Snow and Ice Data Center reported Sept. 15. Ashore, meanwhile, the Arctic tundra's permafrost is thawing and releasing methane, a powerful greenhouse gas. These changes will feed on themselves: Released methane leads to warmer skies, which will release more methane. Ice-free Arctic waters absorb more of the sun's heat than do reflective ice and snow, and so melt will beget melt. The frozen Arctic is a controller of Northern Hemisphere climate; an unfrozen one could upend age-old weather patterns across continents. In the face of years of scientific findings and growing impacts, the doubters persist. They ignore long-term trends and seize on insignificant year-to-year blips in data to claim all is well. They focus on minor mistakes in thousands of pages of peer-reviewed studies to claim all is wrong. And they carom from one explanation to another for today's warming Earth: jet contrails, sunspots, cosmic rays, natural cycles. "Ninety-eight percent of the world's climate scientists say it's for real, and yet you still have deniers," observed former U.S. Rep. Sherwood Boehlert, a New York Republican who chaired the House's science committee. Christiana Figueres, Costa Rican head of the U.N.'s post-Kyoto climate negotiations, finds it "very, very perplexing, this apparent allergy that there is in the United States. Why?" The Australian scholar Hamilton sought to explain why in his 2010 book, "Requiem for a Species: Why We Resist the Truth About Climate Change." In an interview, he said he found a "transformation" from the 1990s and its industry-financed campaign, to an America where climate denial "has now become a marker of cultural identity in the 'angry' parts of the United States." "Climate denial has been incorporated in the broader movement of right-wing populism," he said, a movement that has "a visceral loathing of environmentalism." An in-depth study of a decade of Gallup polling finds statistical backing for that analysis. On the question of whether they believed the effects of global warming were already happening, the percentage of self-identified Republicans or conservatives answering "yes" plummeted from almost 50 percent in 2007-2008 to 30 percent or less in 2010, while liberals and Democrats remained at 70 percent or more, according to the study in this spring's Sociological Quarterly. A Pew Research Center poll last October found a similar left-right gap. The drop-off coincided with the election of Democrat Barack Obama as president and the Democratic effort in Congress, ultimately futile, to impose government caps on industrial greenhouse emissions. Boehlert, the veteran Republican congressman, noted that "high-profile people with an 'R' after their name, like Sarah Palin and Michele Bachmann, are saying it's all fiction. Pooh-poohing the science of climate change feeds into their basic narrative that all government is bad." The quarterly study's authors, Aaron M. McCright of Michigan State University and Riley E. Dunlap of Oklahoma State, suggested climate had joined abortion and other explosive, intractable issues as a mainstay of America's hardening left-right gap. "The culture wars have thus taken on a new dimension," they wrote. Al Gore, for one, remains upbeat. The former vice president and Nobel Prize-winning climate campaigner says "ferocity" in defense of false beliefs often increases "as the evidence proving them false builds." In an AP interview, he pointed to tipping points in recent history — the collapse of the Berlin Wall, the dismantling of U.S. racial segregation — when the potential for change built slowly in the background, until a critical mass was reached. "This is building toward a point where the falsehoods of climate denial will be unacceptable as a basis for policy much longer," Gore said. "As Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said, 'How long? Not long.'" Even Wally Broecker's jest — that deniers could blame God — may not be an option for long. Last May the Vatican's Pontifical Academy of Sciences, arm of an institution that once persecuted Galileo for his scientific findings, pronounced on manmade global warming: It's happening. Said the pope's scientific advisers, "We must protect the habitat that sustains us."
Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.

Mooney ’11, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial)

They’re the conservative white men (CWM) of climate change denial, and we’ve all gotten to know them in one way or another. But we haven’t had population-level statistics on them until recently, courtesy of a new paper in Global Environmental Change (apparently not online yet, but live in the blogosphere as of late last week) by sociologists Aaron McCright and Riley Dunlap. It’s entitled “Cool Dudes: The denial of climate change among conservative white males in the United States.” Among other data, McCright and Dunlap show the following: — 14% of the general public doesn’t worry about climate change at all, but among CWMs the percentage jumps to 39%. — 32% of adults deny there is a scientific consensus on climate change, but 59% of CWMs deny what the overwhelming majority of the world’s scientis have ts said. — 3 adults in 10 don’t believe recent global temperature increases are primarily caused by human activity. Twice that many – 6 CWMs out of every ten – feel that way. What’s more, and in line with a number of post I’ve written in the past, McCright and Dunlap also find among these CWMs a phenomenon I sometimes like to call “smart idiocy.” Even as they deny mainstream climate science, conservative white males are also more likely than average U.S. adults to think they understand the science they deny—that they’re right, the scientists are wrong, and they can prove it. Indeed, they’re just dying to debate you and refute you. The authors bring up two possible explanations for the broad CWM phenomenon, both based on literature in the social sciences. The first is “identity-protective cognition” theory (or what I would call motivated reasoning). The second is “system justification” theory, which is just what it sounds like: the study of why people, often implicitly and subconsciously, are motivated to ratify and reaffirm the status quo—why their default position is against, rather than for, progressive change. Motivated reasoning suggests that men who have “hierarchical” values—resisting reforms to increase economic or social equality, believing that some people should be running things and some should be taking orders, or that it’s perfectly okay and normal that some will succeed and some will fail—will be more inclined [to] defend a social system that’s structured in this way. Such a tendency has been used in the past to explain the “white male effect”: White men tend to downplay all manner of risks, especially environmental ones, but also risks posed by things like the vast proliferation of guns in America. This, presumably, is both because they’re less harmed by such risks overall (the burden often falls more on the disadvantaged), but also because they have trouble personally conceiving of the reality of these risks (they don’t see the current state of things as being very bad or objectionable). But why do men downplay climate risks in particular? Here’s where “system justification” theory comes in: If climate change is real and human caused, it potentially threatens the whole economic order and those who have built it and benefited from it. It is the most inconvenient of truths. So the idea is that the men who benefit from the fossil-fuel based energy system will rationalize and defend that system from challenge—and the science of climate change is, in some ways, the ultimate challenge. (More on this here.) This, by the way, may help to explain why conservatives so often liken the promotion of mainstream climate science, and advocacy for greenhouse gas emission controls, to a secret agenda to advance global socialism or communism. It isn’t—we’re so far from a left wing revolution in this country that the whole idea is laughable—but you can see how this wild claim might make more sense to them than it does to you and me. There’s also a strong element of groupthink here, write McCright and Dunlap. Conservative white male elites like Rush Limbaugh disseminate the climate denial message, and then their followers come to associate with it and build identities around it: To the extent that conservative white males in the general public view their brethren within the elite sectors as an ingroup, then we expect that the former also will tend to reject the global warming claims of the scientific community, the environmental movement, and environmental policy-makers. In short, they will espouse climate change denial to defend the information disseminated within their in-group and to protect their cultural identity as conservative white males. Honestly, while we’re cranking out all these theories, I am surprised the authors didn’t bring up what may be the most biologically grounded of them: “social dominance orientation,” or SDO. This refers to a particular personality type—usually male and right wing—who wants to dominate others, who sees the world as a harsh place (metaphorically, a “jungle”) where it’s either eat or be eaten, and who tends to really believe in a Machiavellian way of things. Fundamentally, this identity is all about testosterone firing and being an alpha male. SDOs are fine with inequality and in favor of hierarchy because frankly, they think some people (e.g., them) are just better than others, and therefore destined to get ahead. What are we to make of all of these theories? Certainly they’re more than just hand-waving: They’re all based on actual survey measurements of various tendencies within the population. So there is clearly some truth to all of them. They’re also overlapping, rather than mutually exclusive. My sense is that they’re all taking a nibble at something real; some, like “social dominance” theory, may describe certain individuals but not others. But if there’s a central theme uniting them all, it’s the idea that some people, perhaps especially conservative men, will be more comfortable with, and more inclined to rationalize, hierarchy. Now, do I think conservative white men consciously wake up in the morning and say to themselves, “I’m going to go on blogs and attack climate science today so I can screw over the little guy?” Certainly not. Rather, I simply think they experience modern climate science and climate advocacy as an affront, an attack on them and what they believe. They were brought up in a certain way, they believe certain things, and they have no reason to think of themselves as bad people—and indeed, mostly they’re not bad people. They give to charity. They go to church. They provide for a family. And so on. But then they perceive all these attacks on their values coming from outsiders—hippie environmentalists and ivory tower climate scientists. If you didn’t do anything wrong, and you consider yourself as reasonable and intelligent—but people are attacking you and your values—you maybe get kind of outraged and worked up. From there, the attacks on climate science and climate scientists may begin—and the affirmation of the in-group by attacking the out-group. Needless to say, Fox News, Rush Limbaugh’s radio show, and various climate denial blogs serve to fan the flames.
Climate denialism scars US space policy to the point where crucial earth observation satellites aren’t funded in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests

Patrick Gleick 8/31/2011 Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/ [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]

Anti-science ideology isn’t completely new in the U.S. — there is a dismaying history of irrational, pseudoscientific, or downright anti-scientific thinking and political culture here. But it seems to be gaining momentum — even as it runs counter to America’s scientific and technological strengths. Such strengths, in fact, underpin our economic and political strengths. I’m not talking about honest scientific skepticism and questioning – indeed, that is the very basis of good science. I’m talking about a disturbing combination of two factors: political cowardice hiding behind scientific skepticism; and political pandering to special interests by rejecting science, knowledge, and reason in favor of ideology, religion, or narrow economic self-interest. Sadly and with few brave exceptions, some politicians are active and aggressive at using false, misleading, or discredited science, or explicitly ignoring good science, in setting public policy to support ideology. History tells us this never leads to a good outcome. The Soviets let Lysenkoist ideology pollute their biological and genetic sciences in the 1930s, and they’ve never recovered. We saw it with the long, successful effort of the tobacco industry and their allies to confuse the public and delay regulations to protect public health, leading to millions of unnecessary cancer deaths. We saw it with the veto by Richard Nixon of the Clean Water Act (overridden with the help of some brave and influential Republican senators). And we see it now, in full flower, on the issue of climate change. Here is what the science conclusively tells us: climate change is real, it is already underway, and it is largely due to human activities. These findings are acknowledged by every single major scientific organization in the areas of climate, meteorology, geology, physics, chemistry, atmospheric science, and hydrology, as well as every single National Academy of Sciences, including our own, created by Abraham Lincoln as an independent non-governmental organization to provide the best scientific advice to the government. To quote from an open letter from 255 members of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences published in the leading journal Science: Scientific conclusions derive from an understanding of basic laws supported by laboratory experiments, observations of nature, and mathematical and computer modeling. Like all human beings, scientists make mistakes, but the scientific process is designed to find and correct them. This process is inherently adversarial — scientists build reputations and gain recognition not only for supporting conventional wisdom, but even more so for demonstrating that the scientific consensus is wrong and that there is a better explanation. That’s what Galileo, Pasteur, Darwin, and Einstein did. But when some conclusions have been thoroughly and deeply tested, questioned, and examined, they gain the status of “well-established theories” and are often spoken of as “facts.” For instance, there is compelling scientific evidence that our planet is about 4.5 billion years old (the theory of the origin of Earth), that our universe was born from a single event about 14 billion years ago (the Big Bang theory), and that today’s organisms evolved from ones living in the past (the theory of evolution). Even as these are overwhelmingly accepted by the scientific community, fame still awaits anyone who could show these theories to be wrong. Climate change now falls into this category: there is compelling, comprehensive, and consistent objective evidence that humans are changing the climate in ways that threaten our societies and the ecosystems on which we depend. By pretending that the science is bad, some politicians are trying to avoid the truly difficult policy debates that are their responsibility. And they are simultaneously using claims of budget problems to destroy the nation’s climate research capabilities and stop efforts to improve the science. For example, cuts in NOAA’s budget aimed at eliminating anything “climate” related are likely to lead to a gap in satellite coverage of extreme weather events — precisely the satellites that provided the data our meteorologists used to generate advances warnings for the extreme tornadoes and recent Hurricane Irene. For every $1 saved by delaying replacement satellites, society will face an estimated $3 to $5 in higher costs in the form of damages, injuries, deaths, and efforts to obtain data using other approaches — this is a false savings solely due to anti-climate ideology. And because of inaction on climate policy, uncontrolled climate changes are already beginning to impose serious costs on our economies: reductions in crop yields, extra impacts from extreme storm events, drought costs, and more. Things have gotten so bad that the highly respected scientific journal Nature called these actions “fundamentally anti-science” and an example of “willful ignorance,” and said:“It is hard to escape the conclusion that the US Congress has entered the intellectual wilderness, a sad state of affairs in a country that has led the world in many scientific arenas for so long.” The problem is, in part, that acting to reduce the risks of human-caused climate change could lead to policies that are inconvenient for powerful vested economic interests. We thus see a very well-endowed carbon-fuel industry willing to spend vast sums of money to confuse the public, support politicians and organizations whose influence they can buy, malign scientists who speak out, and create alternative “science” that is rejected over and over by independent review and analysis. Rather than have an honest, albeit difficult policy debate about what should be done about climate change, they postpone that debate by trying to discredit the science.
More accurate climate observations are the only means to properly measure and adapt to warming – space is key

Lewis et al ’10 [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June,http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

This is a question of priorities. Manned flight should remain a priority, but not the first priority. Earth observation data is critical to understanding the causes and effects of climate change and quantifying changing conditions in the environment. The paucity of satellites actually designed and in orbit to measure climate change is disturbing. The United States does not have a robust climate-monitoring infrastructure. In fact, the current infrastructure is in decline. Until that decline is reversed and an adequate space infrastructure put in place, building and launching satellites specifically designed for monitoring climate change should be the first priority for civil space spending. Manned spaceflight provides prestige, but Earth observation is crucial for security and economic well-being. The United States should continue to fund as a priority a more robust and adequate space infrastructure to measure climate change, building and orbiting satellites specifically designed to carry advanced sensors for such monitoring. Satellites provide globally consistent observations and the means to make simultaneous observations of diverse measurements that are essential for climate studies. They supply high-accuracy global observations of the atmosphere, ocean, and land surface that cannot be acquired by any other method. Satellite instruments supply accurate measurements on a near-daily basis for long periods and across broad geographic regions. They can reveal global patterns that ground or air sensors would be unable to detect—as in the case of data from NASA satellites that showed us the amount of pollution arriving in North America from Asia as equal to 15 percent of local emissions of the United States and Canada. This sort of data is crucial to effective management of emissions—the United States, for example, could put in place regulations to decrease emissions and find them neutralized by pollution from other regions. Satellites allow us to monitor the pattern of ice-sheet thickening and thinning. While Arctic ice once increased a few centimeters every year, it now melts at a rate of more than one meter annually. This knowledge would not exist without satellite laser altimetry from NASA’s ICESat satellite. Satellite observations serve an indispensable role—they have provided unprecedented knowledge of inaccessible regions. Of the 44 essential climate variables (ECV) recognized as necessary to support the needs of the parties to the UNFCCC for the purposes of the Convention, 26 depend on satellite observations. But deployments of new and replacement satellites have not kept pace with the termination of older systems. Innovation and investment in Earth observation technology have failed to keep pace with global needs for monitoring and verification. Much of our data comes from satellites put in orbit for other purposes, such as weather prediction and monitoring. The sensors on these weather satellites provide valuable data, but they are not optimized for monitoring climate change or for adequately assessing the effect of mitigation efforts. More precise and specialized data are needed to understand and predict climate change, and getting these data will require new orbital sensors. Countries have improved many of their climate observation capabilities, but reports suggest little progress in ensuring long-term continuity for several important observing systems. The bulk of climate data is collected by the United States, and NASA’s investment in the Earth Observing System missions has provided the climate-quality data used to establish trends in sea level, ozone concentrations, ocean color, solar irradiance, Earth’s energy balance, and other key variables. While this investment has made an invaluable contribution, it is not an operational system. Many satellites currently in orbit are operating well past their planned lifetimes. In the next eight years, half of the world’s Earth observation satellites will be past their useful life. One reason for this is that many of the satellites that provide critical data for monitoring climate change are experimental satellites (such as TRMM—the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission). Satellites built as research efforts provide real benefit, but if they are not replaced when their service life ends and if a permanent operational capability for Earth observation is not put in place, we will face insurmountable problems for observing capabilities and our ability to manage climate change. Many missions and observations for collecting climate data are at risk of interruption. These include measurements of ocean color that are critical for studying phytoplankton bloom and the role of ocean biomass as a carbon source and sink and data on the role of forests in the carbon cycle. Perhaps the most important shortcoming involves the monitoring of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and greenhouse gases. Reduction and regulation of CO2 emissions are part of every discussion on how to manage climate change, but the crash of NASA’s Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO) satellite left the world essentially bereft of the ability to make precise measurements to assess emissions reduction efforts. OCO cost approximately $278 million, which was about 2 percent of NASA’s annual budget for manned space flight in 2009. Its loss will cripple global carbon monitoring until we have its replacement, finally funded this year and scheduled for launch no later than February 2013. Existing GHG monitoring networks and programs are predominantly ground-based, but they are not truly adequate to the task. Ground-based networks are limited because they can only provide disjointed pieces of a larger picture. Moreover, these systems are aging, and investment for replacement has declined. We now rely on Japan’s GOSAT, the European Space Agency’s SCIAMACHY sensor, and Canada’s microsatellite, CanX-2, for observations of atmospheric concentrations of carbon; however, these sensors are not advanced enough to meet data requirements needed to understand critical aspects of the carbon cycle, and they are highly constrained by their range of coverage. For example, the carbon produced from a fossil fuel power plant is too small to measure with GOSAT, and low spatial resolution and high uncertainty of measurements limit the monitoring capabilities of SCIAMACHY. The implications are serious for measuring the effectiveness of climate policies. If reduction in GHG emissions (the most significant being carbon dioxide) is the centerpiece of mitigation efforts and a goal for both national legislation and international agreement, we are woefully unprepared to assess the effectiveness of these measures. It will be difficult to assess and adjust CO2-reducing measures without greater investment in orbiting sensors. The need for information has never been greater, but there are significant gaps in global Earth monitoring capabilities. Although more than 50 nations operate or plan to operate Earth observation satellites, most of these are basic electro-optical satellites, essentially orbiting digital cameras that lack the necessary sensors for precise climate monitoring. There are only a handful of dedicated satellites for monitoring climate change, and the time has passed when general-purpose weather satellites can meet our informational needs. Japan, Europe, and the United States operate satellites with some of the sensors needed to monitor climate change, but a recent National Academies study found that of the 26 essential climate variables that can be monitored from space, we have coverage of only 16. Only a coordinated federal policy and investment, including revised priorities for our civil space programs, can change this. For most of the last decade, NASA was unable to replace its climate-monitoring satellites. Replacing these satellites is crucial to avoid a drastic decline in collecting the most valuable information for monitoring climate change. The Obama administration has proposed a budget for NASA’s Earth science programs of $2.4 billion in new funding over the next five years, an increase of more than 60 percent. The new funding, which requires congressional approval, will help replace OCO and allow NASA to replace the twin GRACE satellites that make detailed measurements of Earth’s gravity field that can provide important climate data. The request for NOAA’s budget for climate-related activities has been increased as well. NOAA will be spending $2.2 billion to maintain and further develop satellites and to support climate research; $435 million has been requested to support the U.S. Global Change Research Program, with $77 million in new increases for core climate services and observations. Spending on space has always been a question of priorities. Until recently, those priorities were frozen in time, reflecting political needs that were decades out of date. Our national priorities have changed. A new priority, reflecting the new challenges to our security and national interest, involves monitoring and understanding climate change. Debate over climate change is fierce and there are many skeptics, but the signs of major changes are undeniable. Warnings of catastropheare likely overblown, but we do not fully understand the implications of climate change or the utility of various measures to mitigate it. Climate change is occurring, and it creates new risks. In this context, the recent decision to scale back spending on human space flight and increase spending on Earth observation is a better match for national priorities and interests. It updates a space policy that has been badly out of date for years. Observation of climate change began more than a century ago with simple measurements of the Earth’s average temperature. These were interesting, but inadequate. The breakthrough in understanding climate change came with Earth observation satellites. Satellites provide global awareness in ways that other technologies cannot match. The monitoring needed for a serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space.
Only increased climate data can solve – information key to policy

Brown '8 Oli is the Programme Manager with the International Institute for Sustainable Development (Forced Migration Review, "The Numbers Game", October 2008, Issue 31)

Estimates of the potential number of ‘climate change migrants’ vary hugely. In order to persuade policymakers of the need to act and to provide a sound basis for appropriate responses, there is an urgent need for better analysis, better data and better predictions. As early as 1990 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was arguing that the greatest single impact of climate change could be on human migration. So far, the scientific community has focused on establishing the extent and nature of anthropogenic climate change and its impact on our weather systems and coastlines. Much less time and energy, however, have been spent on empirical analysis of the impacts of climate change on human population distribution. Consequently, the figures that analysts have produced to date represent little more than well-educated guesswork. This is unsurprising; the science of climate change is complex enough, even before considering its impact on societies with widely differing resources and varied capacities to adapt to external shocks. To assess the future impact of climate change on complex changing communities is to heap prediction upon prediction, multiplying the potential margin of error. Perhaps the best-known estimate for future migration forced by climate was made by Professor Norman Myers of Oxford University. Looking ahead to 2050 he has argued that “when global warming takes hold there could be as many as 200 million people [displaced] by disruptions of monsoon systems and other rainfall regimes, by droughts of unprecedented severity and duration, and by sea-level rise and coastal flooding.” This is a daunting figure, a ten-fold increase on today’s entire population of documented refugees and IDPs. It would mean that by 2050 one in every 45 people in the world would have been displaced by climate change (from a predicted global population of nine billion people). Other estimates vary widely in terms of numbers, time frame and causes. In 2005 the UN University’s Institute for Environment and Human Security warned that the international community should prepare for 50 million ‘environmental refugees’ by 2010. The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) argues that by 2060 there could be 50 million ‘environmental refugees’ in Africa alone. Most apocalyptically, in 2007 Christian Aid suggested that nearly a billion people could be permanently displaced by 2050: 250 million by climate change-related phenomena such as droughts, floods and hurricanes, and 645 million by dams and other development projects. However, Professor Myers’ estimate of 200 million climate migrants by 2050 has become the generally accepted figure and is widely cited. But repetition does not make the figure inherently accurate. Professor Myers himself admits that his estimate, although calculated from the best available (and limited) data, required some “heroic extrapolations”. The simple fact is that nobody really knows with any degree of precision what climate change will mean for human population distribution. We know that climate change will redraw our coastlines, alter where we can grow food, move where and when we can find water, and expose us to fiercer storms or more severe droughts. We know that on current predictions the ‘carrying capacity’ of large parts of the world – the ability of different ecosystems to provide food, water and shelter for human populations – will be compromised by climate change. Intuitively we know that climate migration is likely to be a serious issue in future. We just don’t know how serious. And it is hard to persuade policymakers of its importance without concrete (or at least more sophisticated) figures. The estimates we have so far are no real foundation for an appropriate response either. The challenge now is to better understand how climate change could affect population distribution and then to develop effective ways to address the possible consequences of forced migration, such as social and economic dislocation, delayed development or conflict. For that we need clearer answers to some key questions: How many people are likely to move as a result of climate change? Where are they likely to come from and go to? How much warning will they have? Will they be able to return? Better data on any or all of the questions above will help identify the most vulnerable populations, the regions of greatest concern and the potential effects of climate migration on development and stability. Ultimately, better data would move the debate towards the three questions of most relevance to policymakers: Who should be responsible for providing for climate induced migrants? For how long will they typically need support? And how much will it all cost? Developing more solid predictions will require a lot of hard numbercrunching that is only now really starting. Those predictions are complicated by at least four factors: Migrants’ decisions to leave their homes are influenced by a number of complex factors; deciding causality between economic ‘pull’ and environmental ‘push’ is often highly subjective. Disaggregating the role of climate change from other environmental, economic and social factors requires an ambitious analytical step into the dark. In short, deducing cause and effect between climate change and forced migration is very difficult. Future climate migration will take place against a background of unprecedented changes in the number and distribution of the world’s population. The global population is currently growing at an annual rate of 1.1% and is predicted to peak at 9.075 billion by 2050 (from its 2005 level of 6.54 billion). Meanwhile, there is an accelerating move to urban areas. Already more than half of the world’s population lives in urban settings and the growth rate of the urban population is nearly double that of total population growth. Clearly it would be absurd to attribute the entire urban drift to climate change but disaggregating the additional role of climate change on existing rural-urban migration is very hard. Base-line data for current migration flows in many of the developing countries thought to be most vulnerable to climate change are patchy and incomplete. Nor is there much capacity in developing countries or the international community to gather this kind of data, particularly for internal displacement. Census data rarely include the kind of questions that would give a nuanced understanding of the reasons behind internal population movements. What limited capacity exists is focused on tracking cross-border migration – which only captures a part of the picture, given that the majority of forced climate migrants are likely to stay within their own borders. Finally, although climate modelling techniques have progressed dramatically over the past decade, we have not yet developed the modelling techniques that even begin to adequately account for the impact of individual choice, the potential for international action and the variability of future emissions and meteorological scenarios. We need more time, effort and energy to be put towards developing a better understanding of future forced migration.
This data lets the US build global adaptation solutions to solve warming

Lewis et al ’10 [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

Climate change will have pervasive and unavoidable effects on economic and national security. Managing these consequences and mitigating them when possible are new and difficult tasks for governments. Progress in mitigating and adapting to climate change will require the world’s countries to agree to coordinate their actions. Reaching such agreement will be no easy task. That said, climate change offers a unique opportunity for the United States to engage other nations in pursuing common interests and addressing future challenges. Not only is the United States well positioned to lead on this issue because of its significant space and scientific capacity, it also faces global expectations that it should shoulder the leadership burden for climate change. A commitment to building the space and information infrastructure needed to manage climate change could demonstrate the U.S. leadership, based on competence and advancing the global good, that the world respects and admires. Operationalization is the next step for dealing with climate change—to make the data and knowledge generation by satellites and science easier to use in policymaking. Operationalization requires a new approach. Climate change has largely been an issue of science. The existing vehicles for international cooperation and data sharing are aimed at the scientific community. Effective global management of climate requires a new approach with three integrated elements—space, networks, and collaboration. Our belief is that a concerted effort to analyze and share data from the many national efforts could significantly advance our understanding of the risks and causes of climate change, better measure the effects of mitigation policies, and guide planning on how to adapt to changes in the environment. Achieving such a concerted effort will require coordination must occur on several different levels if it is to have a meaningful effect. The first—the collection and measurement of relevant data—depends largely on satellites. Without the proper data, it would be very difficult to develop and aggregate a global picture of climate change and its nature and pace. It would be difficult to measure the effects of mitigation efforts, determine when or whether policies are effective, or predict when and how climate effects will affect local communities. The second level is to expand the analysis and sharing of information. In some ways, we are only in the early stages of developing a global enterprise for assessing climate change. Much of the research and analysis conducted thus far has been focused on understanding the nature and pace of climate change, forecasting future changes in Earth’s natural systems based on changes in different variables, and substantiating theories about how human efforts to reduce the effects of climate change might actually have some effect. More work is needed in each area to improve our understanding and update it as the natural environment continues to change. Finally, data must move from the scientific community to the policy community—to governments and policymakers—if data are to guide change. While the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change tailored analysis to meet policymakers’ needs in the hopes of reaching a global consensus for action, the challenge today is to extend and strengthen connections between the science and policy communities. A coordinated multinational effort to better inform the policy process can change this. Our belief is that a concerted effort to analyze and share data from the many national efforts could significantly advance our understanding of the risks and causes of climate change, better measure the effects of mitigation, and guide planning on adapting to changes in the environment. To this end, our recommendations follow: The U.S. approach to climate change policy needs to inform decisionmakers and planners in both government and the private sector by providing understandable metrics and analyses of the effectiveness of, and compliance with, mitigation programs and adaption plans. The customers for this should include federal agencies, state and local governments, private sector users, and other nations. To better serve the national interest, the United States should increase its Earth observation capabilities—especially space-based sensors for carbon monitoring—to improve our ability to understand the carbon cycle and to inform any future international agreement. This means that until these capabilities are adequate for monitoring climate change, investment in Earth observation satellites should take precedence over other space programs. Increased spending on earth observation satellites specifically designed for climate change should be maintained until the current capability shortfall is eliminated
Warming is real, anthropogenic and causes extinction

Deibel 2007

(Terry L., Deibel, Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007 “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft” pages 397-8)

Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. Scientists worldwide have been observing the gathering of this threat for three decades now, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty. Indeed not one of more than 900 articles on climate change published in refereed scientific journals from 1993 to 2003 doubted that anthropogenic warming is occurring. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming.” Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports shows: an international panel predicts “brutal droughts, floods and violent storms across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; the only debate is how much and how serious the effects will be. As the newspaper stories quoted above show, we are already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in more violent storms, spread of disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and threatened inundation of low-lying countries like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that “humankind’s continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life support system. At worst, says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University, “we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to heat the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then everything will collapse.” During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possibly end life on this planet. Global warming is the post-Cold War era’s equivalent of nuclear winter at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. Over the long run it puts dangers from terrorism and traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.
Independently, we need accurate and actionable data to create adaptation strategies

Foster et al., 9

“Ask the Climate Question: Adapting to Climate Change Impacts in Urban Region” June 2009 Ashley Lowe Josh Foster Steve Winkelman. Ashley Lowe has worked with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. She holds a B.A. in an interdisciplinary environmental program and a B.A. in Archaeology, both from the University of Virginia, and an M.S. in Environmental Policy from the University of Michigan. Josh Foster has over 14 years of experience working on climate adaptation, including 13 at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Climate Science Program Office as a manager for climate research applications and services. Has worked at NOAA's National Climate Services, National Integrated Drought Information System (NIDIS), Regional Integrated Climate Sciences and Assessments (RISA) Program, the International Research Institute for Climate and Society (IRI), the Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the US Global Change Research Program, the United Nations Development Program, the White House Office on Environmental Policy, and the White House Subcommittee on Water Availability and Quality (SWAQ). Josh also holds Masters in International Relations and in Environmental Management from Yale University, and a B.A. in International Relations and Environmental Policy, Minor in Latin American Studies, from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. Steve Winkleman managed ICF’s Climate Wise industrial energy efficiency program for the US EPA. Steve is a member of the National Academy of Sciences’ Sustainable Transport Committee. He holds a BS in Physics from the University of Michigan and an MA in Public Policy from the University of Minnesota. http://www.ccap.org/docs/resources/674/Urban_Climate_Adaptation-FINAL_CCAP%206-9-09.pdf

Understanding Your Specific Adaptation Needs Providing Actionable Science Accurate and relevant information is the cornerstone of effective adaptation planning and implementation. Scientific data and expertise shed light on the what, when, where and how of climate impacts and provide the basis for building adaptation strategies. But climate data from these sources is often produced at a large scale (e.g., state or regional) and a low resolution (i.e., too coarse) so that it is not easily applicable to the smaller scale at which local decision making takes place. Additionally, climate change information often is not easily accessible to decision makers, either being of an experimental nature or not available to the public. It can also be difficult to integrate this data with information that is important in the local decision-making process such as socio-economic, demographic, or other geographic data in GIS. Lastly, the language gap between the climate information producers (scientists) and the information users (local decision makers) makes interpreting and using climate information products more difficult. “Actionable Science,” as recently defined by one Urban Leader partner, is characterized as “data, analysis and forecasts that are sufficiently predictive, accepted and understandable to support decision making, including capital investment decision making.” 12 Science that is accessible, accurate and relevant enough to be applied at the local level is crucial to the successful implementation of adaptation initiatives. There are a number of ways that federal level climate information can be made more “actionable” for adaptation efforts. Satellite data could be used to refine and calibrate climate and hydrologic models, both of which are used in adaptation planning. Additionally, the federal government could help to fill in the data gaps within particular states and regions, such as, the gaps identified in understanding the links between ground water and surface water impacts.
Warming disproportionally affects minorities, we have a moral obligation to stop it

Moser and Dilling 2007 (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 7-8 Mkoo)

The problem of global warming is maybe the ultimate ‘‘commons’’ problem (Hardin, 1968; NRC, 2002; Dietz, Ostrom, and Stern, 2003). The nations of the world all share one atmosphere. When GHGs are emitted from anywhere, they affect the climate of the Earth as a whole. Rules about using the atmosphere for the discharge of GHGs are only slowly being defined, while monitoring, accountability, and consequences for ‘‘overusing’’ the global atmospheric commons are extremely difficult to ensure and implement. The ethical implications of sharing one atmospheric commons go further. Some regions are disproportionately affected by climate change, and societal vulnerability to these negative impacts is also highly uneven due to differential levels of exposure and sensitivity to the risks, and differential ability to cope and adapt (Agyeman, Bullard, and Evans, 2003; Kasperson, Kasperson, and Dow, 2001; Kasperson and Dow, 1991). Whether the decision is taken to maintain the status quo or undertake aggressive action to mitigate global warming, the burden and benefits of outcomes are unequally shared across nations and generations. Unfortunately, those who currently benefit from the status quo and who perceive themselves to be less severely impacted have little incentive to push for action (Agyeman, Bullard, and Evans, 2003; Kasperson, Kasperson, and Dow, 2001; Kasperson and Dow, 1991; Kasperson and Kasperson, 1991). Those, on the other hand, who are likely to be impacted more severely the poor within developing and developed countries have much incentive but little power and even fewer means to influence policy-making. In summary, the inherent natural characteristics and deep societal roots of climate change stack the deck against the issue being recognized as an urgent and actionable problem. Communicators who have succeeded in motivating action to address this problem have been able to negotiate these challenges and still find a way to excite and engage different audiences constructively. Throughout this volume we find examples and strategies that have worked in preventing audiences from getting bogged down in these characteristics of the problem in different settings.
*And systemic discrimination means marginalized communities are less likely to survive the impacts of warming borne by the elite

Minority Rights Groups International April 2008 http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf

[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]

Climate change is just beginning to be articulated as a human rights issue – rather than a purely development or environmental crisis. Yet the effects of global warming described above, go to the heart of minority rights, and the key issues of existence, identity, discrimination and participation. If marginalized communities experience systemic discrimination, then they are less likely to survive the upheavals of global warming. If a minority’s lifestyle is being eroded by environmental changes, then their unique culture and language are also under threat. If they cannot participate in the decisions that will affect the outcomes of global warming, then the chances are that their needs will be ignored or sidelined. These outcomes are violations of a state’s obligations to minorities, under international human rights law – a fact already being utilized by some indigenous groups seeking to hold their government to account for climate change-related impacts on their communities. The most famous attempt to use human rights law so far has been the petition submitted to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights on behalf of the Inuit in Alaska and Canada. This was submitted by Sheila WattClouthier, supported by the Inuit Circumpolar Council (ICC) against the United States in 2005. Their 175-page petition argued that the Arctic was more severely affected by climate change than any other place on earth and that the US, as the world’s largest greenhouse gas emitter, bore more responsibility for this than any other nation.


===Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race=== 

Failing to connect warming to the issue of racism engages in racial marginalizing and circumvents the environmental environment

Tim Wise April 13th 2011 Tim Wise and White Privilege http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/ [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]

But as troubling as colorblindness can be when evinced by liberals, colormuteness may be even worse. Colormuteness comes into play in the way many on the white liberal-left fail to give voice to the connections between a given issue about which they are passionate, and the issue of racism and racial inequity. So, for instance, when environmental activists focus on the harms of pollution to the planet in the abstract, or to non-human species, but largely ignore the day-to-day environmental issues facing people of color, like disproportionate exposure to lead paint, or municipal, medical and toxic waste, they marginalize black and brown folks within the movement, and in so doing, reinforce racial division and inequity. Likewise, when climate change activists focus on the ecological costs of global warming, but fail to discuss the way in which climate change disproportionately affects people of color around the globe, they undermine the ability of the green movement to gain strength, and they reinforce white privilege. How many climate change activists, for instance, really connect the dots between global warming and racism? Even as people of color are twice as likely as whites to live in the congested communities that experience the most smog and toxic concentration thanks to fossil fuel use? Even as heat waves connected to climate change kill people of color at twice the rate of their white counterparts? Even as agricultural disruptions due to warming — caused disproportionately by the white west — cost African nations $600 billion annually? Even as the contribution to fossil fuel emissions by people of color is 20 percent below that of whites, on average? Sadly, these facts are typically subordinated within climate activism to simple “the world is ending” rhetoric, or predictions (accurate though they may be) that unless emissions are brought under control global warming will eventually kill millions. Fact is, warming is killing a lot of people now, and most of them are black and brown. To build a global movement to roll back the ecological catastrophe facing us, environmentalists and clean energy advocates must connect the dots between planetary destruction and the real lives being destroyed currently, which are disproportionately of color. To do anything less is not only to engage in a form of racist marginalizing of people of color and their concerns, but is to weaken the fight for survival.’
This connection must be communicated through the debate forum to create real social change

Moser and Dilling 2007 (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 14-16 Mkoo)

The relationship between the climate problem and stimulating societal responses via communication is clearly more complex than is commonly accounted for. A fuller understanding of the role of communication and how it intersects with social change is necessary. While a high level of basic awareness has been achieved, understanding can (and some would argue should ) still be deepened significantly. But a high level of awareness and a better understanding of the science underlying climate change do not directly or necessarily translate into concern or action (e.g., voting, behavior changes, policy support, or other forms of engagement). Differently put, ‘‘better communication’’ goes beyond simply designing more effective ways of conveying information from an expert to a lay audience. Yet observation of current efforts suggests just that. For better or worse, a large share of the responsibility for communicating climate change still falls to scientists and others who lay claim to scientific or technical expertise. Among many of these communicators, the tripartite conviction that (1) climate change is essentially a scientific issue, (2) experts understand it and others don’t, and (3) the purpose of communication thus is to educate the ignorant is, in short, still alive and well. Communication on global warming based on these assumptions thus creates an abiding rift between listener and speaker, preventing the listener from truly gaining ownership of the problem because of its alleged purely technical nature and the implicit hierarchy of expert/lay person in which it is approached. The discussion above has demonstrated how this traditional approach to communication has failed to motivate the public is aware of the term ‘‘global warming,’’ but not energized by it to act. Climate change simply does not resonate deeply with the general public; it remains disconnected from people’s daily lives, from their more immediate concerns. This suggests, then, that climate change has not been communicated effectively until communicators understand how to bridge this ‘‘gap of meaning.’’ To do so, it seems to us, is impossible without understanding the ‘‘audience’’ more fully. ‘‘Know thy audience,’’ of course, is an old adage in communication practice. But the existing literature and the chapters in this book point to something more fundamental than simply going down a checklist of audience characteristics or surveying potential recipients of climate change information for what will resonate with them. We have come to see the importance of dialogue, of the genuine exchange among other-than-scientific viewpoints and needs, and the integration of climate change with other-than-climate change concerns. This has led us to a broader definition of communication in support of social change as a continuous and dynamic process unfolding among people that facilitates an exchange of ideas, feelings, and information as well as the forming of mutual understanding and common visions of a desirable future. Communication etymologically rooted in the same Latin word as communion points to meanings of participation and sharing, of imparting meaning, and making common (Harper, 2001). This volume moves us toward this broader conceptualization, to a fresh approach. It takes stock of the communication and social change challenges, practices, and debates, as well as of pertinent research and practical experience to draw lessons and propose more effective strategies. Contributors offer deeper insight into why the problem of global warming is not seen as urgent, and, in turn, how to redesign communication efforts so that they can support action from the personal to the political, from the household to the national and international level, rather than, at best, be irrelevant, or, at worst, a hindrance. As such, this book offers ways to improve on current practice designing communication strategies that empower rather than alienate and ways to envision new practices how to move beyond message delivery and toward dialogue and engagement


Specifically, approaching warming without disrupting the racial framework misses the boat – any effort to just solve warming are ineffectual “market-based” approaches that prop up the racial heirarchy

MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8 [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]

[*297] Fear of eroding the hierarchies that define race explains why politicians and other elites have consistently championed ineffectual "market-based approaches" to global warming. n36 By focusing public and private energy on relatively insignificant individual behavior changes, the Bush administration and other privileged elites are able to maintain the racial hierarchy that consolidates their economic and social power. n37 Politicians know that "[w]ithout white-over-black the state withers away." n38 Therefore, they have a profound incentive to maintain the racial hierarchy. Unsurprisingly, "because th[ese elites] accrue social and economic benefits by maintaining the status quo, they inevitably do." n39 This white consensus to maintain the spatial and mobility hierarchies that reify race is possible because, "[w]hite privilege thrives in highly racialized societies that espouse racial equality, but in which whites will not tolerate being either inconvenienced in order to achieve racial equality . . . or being denied the full benefits of their whiteness . . . ." n40 With so much white privilege to lose, it becomes clear why even most passionate environmental advocates are far more willing to call for, and make, small non-structural changes in their behavior to ameliorate [*298] global warming, but are unwilling to embrace significant or meaningful actions to address the crisis. n41 Even as global warming is starting to become the subject of increasing media coverage and as more environmental groups call for action to halt the crisis, most activism is limited to changes that maintain the existing spatial, social, economic and legal framework that defines American society. n42 Despite knowing for decades that we have been living unsustainable lifestyles, and "hav[ing] had some intuition that it was a binge and the earth couldn't support it, . . . aside from the easy things (biodegradable detergent, slightly smaller cars) we didn't do much. We didn't turn our lives around to prevent it." n43 Greenhouse emissions reduction challenges have cropped up on websites across the country, encouraging Americans to change their light bulbs, inflate their tires to the proper tire pressure to ensure optimal gas mileage, switch to hybrid cars, run dishwashers only when full, telecommute, or buy more efficient washers and dryers. n44 However, popular emissions challenge web sites are not suggesting that Americans give up their cars, move into smaller homes in more densely populated urban neighborhoods near public transportation, or take other substantive actions to mitigate the global climate crisis. n45 Even Al Gore, [*299] the most famous voice in the climate change movement, reminds his fellow Americans that "[l]ittle things matter . . . buy a hybrid if you can, buy a flex-fuel car if you can. Get a higher mileage car that's comfortable for your needs." n46 "[M]any yuppie progressive 'greens' are the [*300] ones who drove their SUVs to environmental rallies and, even worse, made their homes at the far exurban fringe, requiring massive car dependence in their daily lives," taking residential segregation and racial and spacial hierarchies to previously unimagined dimensions. n47 This focus on maintaining one's privileged lifestyle while making minimal changes reflects the power of the underlying structural impediments blocking a comprehensive response to global climate change in the United States. n48 It is not just political inaction that prevents a meaningful response. Millions of Americans do not demand a change in environmental policy because, just as with political elites, it is against the interests of those enjoying white privilege to take genuine steps to combat climate change. n49 Real climate action would ultimately require relinquishing the spatial, social, and economic markers that have created and protected whiteness and the privilege it confers. n50 Although "we too often fail to appreciate how important race remains as a system for amassing and defending wealth and privilege," the painfully slow reaction of the American public to the growing dangers of global warming highlights just how important racial privilege remains and how reluctant its beneficiaries are to give it up. n51 Elite reformists make meaningful change even more remote as they push for behaviors to tweak, but not to change the existing social, economic, and legal hierarchy in the face of [*301] "problems, [like global warming] that arise to threaten the predominance of the traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." n52
These systematic harms of structural violence must come before linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade

Abu-Jamal 98 (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html)

We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, in a nation that condones and ignores wide-ranging "structural' violence, of a kind that destroys human life with a breathtaking ruthlessness. Former Massachusetts prison official and writer, Dr. James Gilligan observes; By "structural violence" I mean the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted by those who are above them. Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of the class structure; and that structure is itself a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting "structural" with "behavioral violence" by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on. --(Gilligan, J., MD, Violence: Reflections On a National Epidemic (New York: Vintage, 1996), 192.) This form of violence, not covered by any of the majoritarian, corporate, ruling-class protected media, is invisible to us and because of its invisibility, all the more insidious. How dangerous is it--really? Gilligan notes: [E]very fifteen years, on the average, as many people die because of relative poverty as would be killed in a nuclear war that caused 232 million deaths; and every single year, two to three times as many people die from poverty throughout the world as were killed by the Nazi genocide of the Jews over a six-year period. This is, in effect, the equivalent of an ongoing, unending, in fact accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide on the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world. [Gilligan, p. 196]
Your extinction scenarios are exagerrated. Western ideology emphasizes war because it specifically effects them.

Martin, ’82 [Brian Martin, “Critique of nuclear extinction”, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, 1982, pp. 287-300. http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/82jpr.html]

(g) White, western orientation. Most of the continuing large-scale suffering in the world - caused by poverty, starvation, disease and torture - is borne by the poor, non-white peoples of the third world. A global nuclear war might well kill fewer people than have died of starvation and hunger-related disease in the past 50 or 100 years.[22] Smaller nuclear wars would make this sort of contrast greater.[23] Nuclear war is the one source of possible deaths of millions of people that would affect mainly white, rich, western societies (China and Japan are the prime possible exceptions). By comparison, the direct effect of global nuclear war on nonwhite, poor, third world populations would be relatively small. White westerners may tend to identify their own plight with that of the rest of the world, and hence exaggerate the threat of destruction wreaked on their own societies into one for all of humanity. White westerners may also tend to see the rest of the world as vitally dependent on themselves for survival, and hence see catastrophe for all as a result of a nuclear war which destroys 'civilisation'. In practice, poor non-white populations arguably would be better off without the attentions of white, western 'civilisation' - although nuclear war is hardly the way to achieve this. These considerations suggest the importance of strengthening links between peace struggles and struggles for justice, equality and freedom from exploitation in poor countries.
Impacts of nuclear war only seek to mask the oppression and exploitation of white supremacy and institutionally racist practices

Omalade 1984 (Barbara-a historian of black women for the past twenty years and an organizer in both the women’s and civil rights/black power movements City College Center for Worker Education in New York City Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust; WOMEN’S STUDIES QUARTERLY, Vol. 12., No. 2, Teaching about Peace, War, and Women in the Military, Summer, p. 12;http://www.jstor.org/stable/4004305)

In April, 1979, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency released a report on the effects of nuclear war that concludes that, in a general nuclear war between the United States and the Soviet Union, 25 to 100 million people would be killed. This is approximately the same number of African people who died between 1492 and 1890 as a result of the African slave trade to the New World. The same federal report also comments on the destruction of urban housing that would cause massive shortages after a nuclear war, as well as on the crops that would be lost, causing massive food shortages. Of course, for people of color the world over, starvation is already a common problem, when, for example, a nation’s crops are grown for export rather than to feed its own people. And the housing of people of color throughout the world’s urban areas is already blighted and inhumane: families live in shacks, shanty towns, or on the streets; even in the urban areas of North America, the poor may live without heat or running water. For people of color, the world as we knew it ended centuries ago. Our world, with its own languages, customs and ways, ended. And we are only now beginning to see with increasing clarity that our task is to reclaim that world, struggle for it, and rebuild it in our own image. The “death culture” we live in has convinced many to be more concerned with death than with life, more willing to demonstrate for “survival at any cost” than to struggle for liberty and peace with dignity. Nuclear disarmament becomes a safe issue when it is not linked to the daily and historic issues of racism, to the ways in which people of color continue to be murdered. Acts of war, nuclear holocausts, and genocide have already been declared on our jobs, our housing, our schools, our families, and our lands. As women of color, we are warriors, not pacifists. We must fight as a people on all fronts, or we will continue to die as a people. We have fought in people’s wars in China, in Cuba, in Guinea-Bissau, and in such struggles as the civil rights movement, the women’s movement, and in countless daily encounters with landlords, welfare departments, and schools. These struggles are not abstractions, but the only means by which we have gained the ability to eat and to provide for the future of our people. We wonder who will lead the battle for nuclear disarmament with the vigor and clarity that women of color have learned from participating in other struggles. Who will make the political links among racism, sexism, imperialism, cultural integrity, and nuclear arsenals and housing? Who will stand up?
Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.

MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000

Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165

The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission, probably never achieved, yet for this very reason, it is a struggle to be undertaken without surcease and without concessions. One cannot be indulgent toward racism. One cannot even let the monster in the house, especially not in a mask. To give it merely a foothold means to augment the bestial part in us and in other people which is to diminish what is human. To accept the racist universe to the slightest degree is to endorse fear, injustice, and violence. It is to accept the persistence of the dark history in which we still largely live. It is to agree that the outsider will always be a possible victim (and which [person] man is not [themself] himself an outsider relative to someone else?). Racism illustrates in sum, the inevitable negativity of the condition of the dominated; that is it illuminates in a certain sense the entire human condition. The anti-racist struggle, difficult though it is, and always in question, is nevertheless one of the prologues to the ultimate passage from animality to humanity. In that sense, we cannot fail to rise to the racist challenge. However, it remains true that one’s moral conduct only emerges from a choice: one has to want it. It is a choice among other choices, and always debatable in its foundations and its consequences. Let us say, broadly speaking, that the choice to conduct oneself morally is the condition for the establishment of a human order for which racism is the very negation. This is almost a redundancy. One cannot found a moral order, let alone a legislative order, on racism because racism signifies the exclusion of the other and his or her subjection to violence and domination. From an ethical point of view, if one can deploy a little religious language, racism is “the truly capital sin.”fn22 It is not an accident that almost all of humanity’s spiritual traditions counsel respect for the weak, for orphans, widows, or strangers. It is not just a question of theoretical counsel respect for the weak, for orphans, widows or strangers. It is not just a question of theoretical morality and disinterested commandments. Such unanimity in the safeguarding of the other suggests the real utility of such sentiments. All things considered, we have an interest in banishing injustice, because injustice engenders violence and death. Of course, this is debatable. There are those who think that if one is strong enough, the assault on and oppression of others is permissible. But no one is ever sure of remaining the strongest. One day, perhaps, the roles will be reversed. All unjust society contains within itself the seeds of its own death. It is probably smarter to treat others with respect so that they treat you with respect. “Recall,” says the bible, “that you were once a stranger in Egypt,” which means both that you ought to respect the stranger because you were a stranger yourself and that you risk becoming once again someday. It is an ethical and a practical appeal – indeed, it is a contract, however implicit it might be. In short, the refusal of racism is the condition for all theoretical and practical morality. Because, in the end, the ethical choice commands the political choice. A just society must be a society accepted by all. If this contractual principle is not accepted, then only conflict, violence, and destruction will be our lot. If it is accepted, we can hope someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.
The plan action is a starting point against white supremcy, fiat is insufficient but we should embrace the plan as an ideal.

Franklin 1993

John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p. 45

Neither the courts nor the Congress nor the president can declare by fiat, resolution, or executive order that the United States is a color-blind society. They can only facilitate a movement in that direction by discharging their duties in a way that reflects their commitment to such a goal. From that point on, it is the people of all colors who must work in every way possible to attain that goal. Those who insist that we should conduct ourselves as if such a utopian state already existed have no interest in achieving it and, indeed, would be horrified if we even approached it.
To truly break down racism the government must spearhead the effort

Franklin 1993

John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p.73-74

We now live in an age when the role of government is inevitably important whether we are referring to preschool education in Seattle or the aircraft industry in that area, whether we are talking about welfare in Detroit or the creaky, wavering automotive industry there. What we need so desperately is the assumption of responsibility at the highest levels in the public and private sectors to make a strong pitch for the elimination of the uglier aspects of the color line so that we can have a healthier, happier, even gentler society. We need to appreciate the importance of legislation, judicial decisions, and executive orders in setting the stage for eliminating the color line. Without them it is not possible for individuals or groups of individuals, however dedicated, to make a good-faith and successful effort to eliminate the color line. Yet we cannot expect too much of these public efforts, important as they are. These public efforts must be combined with private efforts to promote mutual respect and a willingness to make judgments of others based on what they have done and can do, and not on who they are. If we can somehow teach ourselves these lessons in human relations, perhaps we can take the first feeble steps toward creating the kind of community about which some of our forebears spoke and wrote, and the kind of nation about which so many of us have dreamed but never realized.


=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 
===India DA=== 
The Congress Party will win the presidential election now, but it needs the support of Left parties

Daily Excelsior, 3-26-2012

(“Presidential elections crucial for Congress”

http://pugodesk.winwinhosting.net/dailyexcelsior/presidential-elections-crucial-for-congress/)

Another major challenge is in the offing in forthcoming Presidential election slated for July

adding that the Congress has 31 per cent of the total votes against 24 per cent of the BJP.
The Congress Party will push FDI in retail after the elections—needs opposition support

United News of India, 4-20-2012

"The process of economic reforms is an ongoing

UNI AR SW 1812 NNNN Published by HT Syndication with permission from United News of India.
If the US out-competes India, it will spark anti-Americanism

Wimbush, 2006

(S. Enders, Sr VP of Hudson Institute, “STRATEGIC INDIA”, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/StrategicIndia-Final-Wimbush.pdf)

Under this scenario, Indian strategists would be unable to realize their geopolitical ambitions.

Deepening Indian-Iranian ties would further worsen U.S.-Indian ties.

Technonationalism in space generates broad support from India

Mashelkar, No Date [R.A. Mashelkar is the President, Global Research Alliance, “Technonationalism to Technoglobalism”, Last Date referenced in Article – 2008www.nif.org.in/dwn_files/mashelkar/Technonationalism-2.doc]

It was through the path of ‘technonationalism’ that India developed self-reliance through its own technologies in space,

has served the civilian needs in communication, meteorology, broadcasting and remote sensing.
Key to jumpstart Indian economy

Blake, 2005

(Robert O., Charge d'Affaires, United States Embassy India, “Expanding the United States and India economic cooperation”, DISAM Journal, Summer

http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0IAJ/is_4_27/ai_n27866190/pg_2/)

The retail industry is another example of an area needing reform.

unifying existing market fragments into a national whole.
The global economy is on the brink, reviving India’s economy is key to avoid a global meltdown

The Financial Express, 12-2-2011 (LexisNexis)

Fears that the world is staring at another economic

will also slow downto 5.6% in 2012 from 7.5% in 2010.
Global Nuclear War

Merlini 2011

Cesare, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute of International Affairs & fellow @ brookings, A Post Secular World, Survival, 53: 2, 117 — 130, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf

Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of possibilities,

hand in hand with chauvinism and a sense of lack of appropriate recognition by others, stemming from a self-perception of rising influence and power

=Round 5 - New Aff - Planning= 

===Plan=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the earth’s mesosphere.

===Contention 1 is The Status Quo=== 

US space policy is dominated by ad hoc and reactionary decisionmaking – built in response to the threat of soviet expansion, it has yet to ever have a clear vision and risks numerous failed programs and arms races

HSU Sr. Fellow, ATWG & COX Founder and Director ATWG 2k9

Feng-Ph.D. and Ken- Ph.D. ATWG = Aerospace Technology Working Group; Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development-A Unified Strategic Vision; SPACEREF, February 20; http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702

4. Space Development vs. Space Exploration--What NASA Can or Cannot Deliver

The U.S. space program and NASA have had astonishing successes back in the Apollo moon-landing era nearly four decades ago. Unfortunately, such astonishing success were replaced rather quickly by frustrations and a series of failed programs, severe cost overruns, project cancellations, and decimated achievement of program goals, as represented by the costly and risky Space Shuttle program, along with many other short-lived programs ever since the early 1970s. Most of us within the space technical community would understand that development of affordable access to space, or low-cost space transportation capability, is the stepping stone not only for humanity to expand our economic presence in low earth orbit, but it also allows us to explore new destinations beyond LEO in a sustainable manner.However, many in the public, some even within the space advocacy community, find it hard to comprehend why such a change of NASA's fortune or track record occurred so dramatically--from the profound successes of the Apollo project to the devastating failure and disastrous and wasteful fate of the Space Shuttle program. Frankly, we believe that the causes of such a tragic phenomenon were rooted deeply in the very reasons that led to the creation of such a U.S. space agency called NASA back in the late 1950s. In other words, the change that occurred in NASA, as indicated in its track record, was inevitable and destined to happen, due to the very nature of its organizational or political governance, which was mainly created to respond to the challenges of the space race during the cold war era. Indeed, the lackluster performance of post-Apollo NASA was predetermined nearly from the day it was created. Yes, it was a unique organization extremely capable of taking on urgent national challenges like the Apollo, and in winning the space race, NASA did exactly what it was supposed to achieve! It would be hard to believe that NASA could fail to achieve success of the Apollo project, given the fact that it enjoyed full public, political and budgetary support throughout the entire project, and that the NASA budget back then was more than 10% of the U.S. GDP, a factor of 5 or more greater than the post-Apollo era. Furthermore, such solid societal support of NASA had never blinked, even under circumstances such that our first Apollo mission was launched eight months after the Apollo-1 fire disaster, and that Apollo-11 was launched some three months after the near-miss anomaly of Apollo 8--a profound spirit that America had back then that has since been lost for taking risks and constantly pushing the envelope of engineering and science in the new frontiers! It was evident that NASA's fortune of managing successful programs took a sudden dive for the worse right after the Apollo-17 mission was completed in 1972. Some might believe the obscure budget level and weak political support of NASA was to blame for the downturn of the agency in the post-Apollo era. However, while there was some skin-deep truth to such blame, the real truth lies deeply beneath the geopolitical complexities of the inherent NASA governing paradigm under which the agency was created: a military entity converted for the purpose of winning the space race. In other words, the space agency was much like a child born prematurely out of a C-section to satisfy tactical needs during the space race, rather than a well-structured government institution created for meeting America's strategic goals and its national or international interests. This was something of uttermost strategic importance that had never been thought about or debated back then, due to historic reasons, and we owe it to the nation, the American people and all of humanity to do the needed rethinking, and therefore reforming of NASA at this pivotal crossroad! America's national strategic goal or interests should include strengthening the U.S. and world economy, enhancing our leadership in science exploration and technology development, ensuring national security, and promoting world peace for sustainable human development. We need to understand that our political systems and the general public within our democratic society tend to respond to urgent needs very decisively and effectively when competing against an external threat, but they perform poorly during peace time, when there are no apparent or imminent external threats or perceived enemies. Yet, often, such "urgent needs" of national interests are either short-term objectives or responsive tactical goals without much of strategic value. In fact, the several major U.S. national labs created under the DOE are excellent examples of how government institutions could be adequately established and transformed to deliver strategic value in terms of science and technology advancements for the nation. Clearly, due to the space race, the Apollo program started without much strategic vision or planning from the get-go, so America's space program was destined to lose direction soon after winning the space race. And this explains why the hardware and launch & crew vehicle systems were created, either without any strategic values, or they simply lost any such long-term applications (if there were any) immediately after the completion of the program. In fact, the lack of documentation and well-managed institutional and corporate memories on critical technologies from the Apollo project speaks for itself. Because of this lack of memory and well-kept technical heritages within the space agency, NASA and its current Constellation program has experienced great difficulty in the past few years in trying to understand and benefit from some critical technical achievements (such as the Saturn-V launch vehicle systems, etc.) that were successfully dealt with back in the Apollo project. As a nation striving to prosper and build our financial and technological strength during today's post-cold-war times and under an increasingly globalized and mutually dependent world economy, America cannot (and must not) afford another such huge spending space exploration program--one that might end up winning (or even provoking) an unwanted space race, or winning tactical space goals (such as beating others in building a costly lunar post first), but ultimately end up failing the nation in skyrocketing debt, or hurting America's long-term interests from wasteful space programs of little strategic and ecwonomic values. Obviously, given the existing status quo and the political governance paradigm of the U.S. space agency that evolved from the space race era, what NASA cannot deliver are any successful, affordable or sustainable space programs (especially any space transportation or infrastructure development programs) without severe budget overruns or schedule delays during a post-cold war international geopolitical environment. That is why under such a systemic paralysis of NASA, huge cost overruns or schedule delays have become the rule rather than the exception. That is also why some of us within the space community have been either reluctant to accept or very much against any ideas of a broader international collaborations strategy in human space exploration or development endeavors. Furthermore, with the existing NASA structure, we tend to amplify or exaggerate the threats of any space achievements from other nations, such as when the launch of China's Shenzhou-5 was perceived as a big threat, and became the primary drive behind the quick sale of the Bush VSE. So the lack of strategic vigor is almost destined to repeat the failures of the agency and thus ultimately hurt our strategic interests. Has anyone imagined why we needed to even respond to a "space race to the Moon" when America won the race four decades ago?! Has anyone imagined what the Bush's VSE or the Constellation architecture would look like back in late 2003 had the Changhe-1 of China been designed to be a Mars Lander, instead of a lunar orbiter? We believe that a responsive vision for space exploration with independent wisdom and strategic merit is good for America, but a responsive space vision largely influenced or misled by external events without strategic merit can be detrimental, not only to America's long-term interests, but the interests of all humanity as well. The inability of NASA to efficiently handle space exploration programs aimed at peaceful discoveries is precisely because during the "peace-time" environment, all the needed budgetary and political support to sustain the operations of the ten-plus NASA centers and organizations was largely diminished, and replaced with the complex issues of fierce competing battles to survive (fund) within NASA organizations. Given such organizational deficiencies of NASA hierarchies as it was created, it simply became a organization severely incapable of planning or doing anything with strategic vision or value. The post-Apollo NASA, as it has been for the past 40 years, simply became a visionless jobs-providing enterprise that achieves little or nothing in spaceinfrastructuredevelopment, especially in the effort for reusable or affordable launch-systems development. Indeed, this explains why in the past, numerous NASA programs or proposals with excellent design concepts were discarded, whereas wasteful projects with costly or unnecessarily complex and risky designs survived. To name just a few: the Shuttle II, Shuttle-C, and the National Launch Systems (NLS) were replaced by the current architecture of the Space Shuttle; and the X-30, National Space Plan (NASP), the X-33 Single Stage to Orbit (SSTO), the Space Launch Initiative (SLI), and OSP (Orbital Space Plane) were cancelled one after another. It is quite clear that without adequate reform and without a long-overdue overhaul of NASA's organizational and political governing infrastructures right after the completion of Apollo project, NASA is destined to deliver wasteful or failed programs. In fact, the selection of the Space Shuttle system design concept and configuration was heavily influenced by NASA's internal and inter-state politics, a textbook case of such organizational deficiencies. That's why we believe that the current Constellation program is at high risk of repeating the post-Apollo "track record" of NASA and we strongly urge the reform of NASA and recommend, as elaborated in the following two sections, how the nation's space enterprise should be adequately chartered, managed, and guided by the proposed USV, to take on the concurrent challenges of fulfilling the strategic goals of space exploration and space development.
The United States has yet to truly “explore” space – “exploration” is the process of charting a path for the future of humanity in space – current space exploration is conflated with “development” and thus driven by exigent circumstances and obsessed with short term deadlines and the physical deployment of technology in space

Sykes, ’10 [Mark V. Sykes is CEO and Director of the Planetary Science Institute. He is the Chair of the NASA Small Bodies Assessment Group and is the former Chair of the Division for Planetary Sciences of the American Astronomical Society., “Towards a smarter future in space”, April 26, 2010, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1613/1]

It is almost fifty years since the United States entered the space race with the launch of Alan Shepard on May 5, 1961. It was a Cold War exigency that resulted in the spectacular success of the Apollo program, from which our human space program has subsequently suffered. Apollo was sold to Congress as needed to beat the Russians. It was sold to the American public as the dawn of an ever-expanding space age. We beat the Russians. Continuing with dead-end goals with time-certain dates, like the Moon by 2020, perpetuates a space program that is more like the bread and circuses of a declining Roman empire than a bridge to the future. We need to be smarter. Let other nations push towards achieving the fifty-year-old goals we have never gone beyond. It is time to think beyond these terminal ambitions. What do we want our future to be 50, 100, 200 years from now? What needs to be done to achieve it? The Augustine panel, in its recent review of US human spaceflight plans, concluded “that the ultimate goal of human exploration is to chart a path for human expansion into the solar system.” This would be a truly ambitious and inspiring goal. We would be grappling with questions for which we do not know the answers. We do not know if humans and other terrestrial creatures require the gravity of Earth to live and reproduce over generations. We do not know if resources can be cost-effectively utilized to create self-sustaining environments for humans beyond Earth. However, today we do have the tools and the ability to answer these questions without large budgets and find out whether our options as a spacefaring species are open or limited. Exploration means confronting the unknown. It is time to be explorers. It is time to be trailblazers—not to be first and plant flags, but to find a path for the rest of us to follow. Even if human expansion is possible, it cannot be realized overnight. It does require a systematic, practical approach with decision points that determine whether or not we take the next step as knowledge in critical areas is gained. One benefit of this expanded vision of space exploration is to give new purpose to the International Space Station (ISS), which has been scheduled to be deorbited as early as 2015 before the White House announced it would extend it to 2020 or beyond as part of its new plan. It is the one location we have to run the fundamental long-duration animal life cycle experiments to determine if there are biological barriers to low-gravity development and living. This would require the installation of some version of the centrifuge that was cancelled in 2006. An assessment of space resources is also needed for purposes of fuel, shielding, and other raw materials to build up a space transportation infrastructure. Much of this is expected to be available from near Earth asteroids, but that is not certain. There would need to be a systematic effort using a wide range of ground-based telescopes as well as space-based assets to determine the population, their dynamical accessibility, and their composition. Much of this work could be undertaken by modest-sized telescopes at universities around the country. This would be followed up with sample return missions to determine the detailed mineralogies of typical targets and whether desired materials could be extracted economically. For identified resource targets, processing would probably be automated, with perhaps human accompaniment on the first emplacement mission. Testing of these processes would again best be undertaken in the low-gravity environment of the space station. The Moon would be a near-term target of automated in situ resource utilization demonstration experiments. Whether the Moon could be a site for future settlement, however, would depend upon the outcome of low-gravity biological experiments conducted on ISS. Cost-effective utilization of the lunar surface would still require a more self-sustainable space transportation infrastructure. Should we ultimately determine that the Moon and/or Mars are places that humans could live, the plan should be to go there when we are truly ready to stay and expand, with many trips for people being one-way. If we ultimately learn that humans are limited to the Earth, then all of the capabilities developed towards supporting an infrastructure for permanent human activity in space and on the surface of other worlds would still be of great value to the continuing cost-effectiveness of our strategic space activities in our near-Earth environment. It would also put renewed focus on how we treat the one planet we can live on. Exploring the possibility of settlement beyond Earth as a goal lays out a large number of scientific and technical challenges that will drive the development of new ideas and new industries. It invites public engagement and the dream of participation by many—not just passive viewing of another space spectacular. Whether our advancement is slow or fast, it is important that it always be forward. President Obama, though, has yet to point the way.
PLANNING IS NECESSARY TO ADDRESS ADHOC DECISIONMAKING

The human presence in space has developed into an integral aspect of human social and economic life. Lacking from debates is a comprehensive informed set of visions, integrated ideas about possibilities cast against constraints, trade-offs and uncertainties.

Even in the absence of global consensus, visions enable policymakers to solve challenges facing human presence. The consequences of adhocdecisionmaking pleases NO ONE! Serious visions cannot assure the BEST outcomes but they can avoid the WORST!
BOCK KROC Institute for Intl Peace Studies, Notre Dame IN. et al 2k9

Joseph G.-, Wade L. Huntley-US Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA; Miranda Weingartner-WeingartnerConsultingm, Ontario Canada; Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space; SPACE POLICY XX (2009) 1-14; SCIENCEDIRECT online; http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA523690

The future of the human presence in space has many faces.The uses of satellites in daily life are now ubiquitous. Dramatictelescopic images reveal the grandeur of the cosmos as neverbefore. Robotic rovers have spent years exploring the surface ofour nearest neighboring planet, while new precise measuringtechniques have revealed the existence of hundreds of planetsaround nearby stars. China recently sent its ﬁrst human intospace, and the USA has established plans for human travel toMars. Even recreational uses of space are now at hand. The 21stcentury will see the human presence in space develop into anintegral aspect of human social and economic life. These prospects raise many issues. Accordingly, policiesshaping current space activities are much debated in many arenas around the globe.The agenda of issues is wide-ranging,including improving space surveillance data and trafﬁcmanagement, preventing and mitigating space debris, concernsover space security and possible weapons deployment, the useof space travel for scientiﬁc advancement, the implications of‘‘space tourism,’’ and the possibility of eventual ‘‘spacecolonization’’ for scientiﬁc, exploratory and commercialpurposes. These debates beneﬁt from considerable ongoing efforts togenerate relevant information, both technical and political.The decision-making processes often reﬂect the input of themany constituencies with near-term stakes in their outcomes.But lacking from these debates is a comprehensive and informed set of visions for the overarching objectives of the advancing human presence in space. This absence is ironic, given that human interests in space are intrinsically visionary. Perhaps no other element ofcontemporary human life so inspires the imagination. Scienceﬁction wonderment has motivated careers. In many nations,space-related achievements epitomize national purpose andpride. At this level, we are rife with visions. But dreams do not constitute a basis for serious public policy planning. Lacking are what might best be termed‘‘realistic visions’’,that is, a set of integrated ideas about possibilities cast against the background of varying constraints, tradeoffs, and uncertainties. Realistic visions would map out how interests and forces operating within the expanding human presence in space will interact to produce outcomes over longer-term time frames. Visions must also account for variance on ultimate aspirations. Hence, no single vision can sufﬁce; such visions are not themselves policy-setting directions. Rather, creative visions of this nature contribute to contemporary policy debates by providing a foundation, beyond simple speculation, for tracing the potential longer-term consequences of immediate policy questions. Even in the absence of global value convergence, such visions can enable policy makers to anticipate and preemptively solve many of the challenges that the advancinghuman presence in space will pose. Without such reﬂection, policy making is driven by extant knowledge, current political forces and short-term objectives.As in many other areas of human life, the long-term consequences of a perpetually ad hoc and unintegrated decisionmaking process may please no-one. The incorporation of serious visions into policy-making processes will not insure the ‘‘best’’ outcomes - impossible in the absence of globalvalues consensus - but they can help avoid the worst outcomes, which are easier to identify. The future of the human presence in space is, of course,unpredictable. Uncertainty pervades two discrete dimensions: we do not know how technology and the materialprospects of the human presence in space will evolve, and wedo not know how space-relevant human organizationalprocesses will evolve either on or off the Earth. Thisunpredictability greatly complicates the development ofpolicy-useful visions of the long-term human presence inspace.
===Advantage 1 is Space Security=== 

The issue of space security poses a central uncertaintiy in the future of space, but the United States has no plan – left to its own devices, ad hoc decisionmaking brings about the worst case scenario through reactionary policies

BOCK KROC Institute for Intl Peace Studies, Notre Dame IN. et al 2k9

Joseph G.-, Wade L. Huntley-US Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA; Miranda Weingartner-WeingartnerConsultingm, Ontario Canada; Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space; SPACE POLICY XX (2009) 1-14; SCIENCEDIRECT online; http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA523690

Space security cuts across the uncertainty of the future ofhumanity’s presence in space. The concerns andcontroversiesover the potential of warfare to be conducted in or throughspace highlight these uncertainties. No-one favors sucha prospect, of course. But there is no agreement on the meansof avoiding it or even on the priority of avoiding it, in thecontext of other terrestrial security tradeoffs. For the better part of the past decade, the focus of theseconcerns has been the prospect of space weaponization. Buthere as well, there is no consensus on the deﬁnition ofa ‘‘space weapon’’ or even agreement on whether or not suchcapabilities have already been deployed.Certainly, a numberof governments currently maintain capabilities in space thatfacilitate terrestrial (land, sea or air) military activities,including use of force. However, many of these capabilitiesunambiguously promote peace and stability, satellitesproviding early warning of missile launches and surveillance,for example, enable national technical veriﬁcation of armscontrol agreements, daily reassurance of the absence ofmalicious intentions and deterrence-enhancing conﬁdence incrisis-response capabilities. The factors driving space-based security and militaryconsiderations are complex and opaque. Debate on spacesecurity issues tends to highlight opposing conceptions ofautonomy and collectivity among spacefaring states; whatJames Clay Moltz has termed ‘‘space nationalism’’ and‘‘global institutionalism’’.But there are also commonthreads among these positions less apparent than theirdivergences. The USA, widely acknowledged to be the world’s dominant military space power, increasingly relies on both military and civilian satellite resources for a wide array ofterrestrial military functions. Many strategists perceive USspace reliance as exposing potential vulnerabilities in broaderUS force postures. The rapid pace of technological changehas fueled concerns that the timelines for maintainingadequate degrees of conﬁdence are unpredictable. China’sJanuary 2007 launch of a missile to destroy a defunctChinese satellite, displaying anti-satellite weapon capabilities, punctuated these concerns. The Bush administration came to power pushing ambitious goals for research and development of space-relatedweapons systems while stone-walling diplomatic initiativesto restrain such efforts. The administration’s 2006 NationalSpace Policy articulated the underlying purposes to sustain‘‘unhindered’’ US space access, to oppose any legal regimesor arms control agreements restricting US space activities,and to ‘‘develop and deploy space capabilities that sustainUS advantage.’’ This posture reinforced earlier US militarydoctrinal developments establishing intentions to maintainUS dominancein space for the foreseeable future, andreﬂected wider administration military force posture intentions. In truth, there has never been unanimity even among USmilitary strategists that qualitative leaps forward in weaponizing space would satisfactorily answer immediate threatconcerns. Indeed, many of the doctrinal ambitions for developing space weapons resulted not from uniﬁed national policyaims but from parochial bureaucratic processes and politicalcompetitions. The Bush administration considerably increasedfunding for research and development of advanced spaceweapons, but as time passed funding ﬂows also fell short of doctrinal ambitions. Behind these concerns, however, has been a consistentpresumption that the increasing militarization of space andthe ever-present potential for space-related combat are an inevitable result of natural historical progression. Forexample, the US Space Command’s widely-circulated 1998‘‘Vision for 2020’’ anticipated that space wouldeventually‘‘evolve into a separate and equal medium of warfare’’ andoutlined requisite US preparations for that inevitability. The subsequent and more notorious report of theCommission to Assess United States National SecuritySpace Management and Organization, chaired by soon-to-beUS Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, viewed theeventual extension of warfare into space a ‘‘virtualcertainty’’, famously warning of an impending ‘‘Space Pearl Harbor’’, and recommended that the USA ‘‘vigorouslypursue’’ full-scale capabilities for space weaponsdeployment.
Planning of the future is key to create a cooperative future in space – There is a presumption that warfare in space can only be held back by treaties, however there can be a more self sustaining and less artificial solution – realistic visions that focus on a future can address how the US pragmatically approaches space

BOCK KROC Institute for Intl Peace Studies, Notre Dame IN. et al 2k9

Joseph G.-, Wade L. Huntley-US Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA; Miranda Weingartner-WeingartnerConsultingm, Ontario Canada; Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space; SPACE POLICY XX (2009) 1-14; SCIENCEDIRECT online; http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA523690

This presumption that weaponry and warfare in space can be prevented only by restraining the endemic forces of humanconﬂict suggests a limitation of vision. The concept is one of straight forward negation, as in a dike holding back a surgingsea or a wall resisting encroaching hordes. Negation goals omit the prospect that the underlying pressures themselves may be in some manner relieved. With respect to space security, this means addressing whether the security dynamics generating potential for weaponization and conﬂict in space might be redressed at a deeper, more self-sustaining level than dependence upon static treaty structures allows. That deeper level involves the dynamic nature of stateinterests themselves. Most proposals for international cooperation in space security activities, whether a full-ﬂedged formalPAROS-like treaty, or more modest arrangements to fashion‘‘rules of the road’’, emphasize the potential to realize states’existing common interests. Such cooperation, even when institutionalized, may endure only so long as the underlying interestconvergence persists; and given the energetic expansion andevolving nature of the human presence in space, the persistenceof interest convergence cannot be assumed. As circumstancesmove tectonically, the energies required to keep intact thestructures built upon those foundations increase to a point ofunsustainability. Conﬂict’s trumping of regimes remains, in some sense, inevitable. Few space security analysts have focused on the possibilitiesfor cooperation to function more organically as an element of theevolution of human space activities, rather than simply asa structure applied to that evolution. The more organic, possibility reﬂects the potential over time for cooperative agreementsand institutions to change state interests themselves. Processesfacilitating such evolution include strategic interest convergence, information creation and sharing, ‘‘spillover’’ and‘‘feedback’’ effects, issue scope expansion and integration, andthe facilitation of transnational linkages. Interacting synergistically with the interests they are inﬂuencing, such cooperationevolves dynamically as well. As such cooperation deepens itsroots among all parties, it can begin to endure self-sustainably. The potential for more organic principles and cooperative institutions to shape the nature of political relations themselves suggests a more expansive concept of the underlying nature of interstate relations, one that need not alwaysresemble the realist image of a Hobbesian ‘‘war of all againstall’’. Hedley Bull’s ‘‘anarchical society’’ and Daniel Deudney’s ‘‘negarchy,’’ for example, capture the past and presentexistence of international political orders that, despite theabsence of hierarchical government, have functioned asqualitatively distinct governance systems. Application of concepts of qualitatively distinct political ordering principles to developing governance conditions of the future humanpresence in space is as yet largely unexplored.The ﬂuidity ofinterests and capabilities with respect to space activitiessuggests a relatively large potential for organized cooperationto inﬂuence their evolution. Such cooperative principles andinstitutions would then become intrinsic to the dynamicpolitical forces shaping the expanding human presence inspace, growing and evolving with them, rather than acting asexogenous static structures seeking to constrain those forces. The rate and uncertainty of change in both the technologicaland political dimensions of expanding human space activitiescomplicates this task. Herein lies the value of ‘‘realistic visions’’.Rigorous articulations of the interplay of the wide variety ofconstraints, tradeoffs, uncertainties, and values entailed in humanexpansion into space can facilitate evaluation of the applicabilityof alternative governanceconcepts to human space activities inthe context of dynamic change.Among other things, such visions can explore how alternative futures in space are intimately linked to terrestrialconditions. As the human presence in space develops into anintegral aspect of global life, it will increasingly reﬂect theprevailing conditions of global life. Anticipation of spaceweaponization premises continued earthly insecurity andconﬂict, while ambitions for growing commercial andexploratory development of space presume increasing international integration and collaboration. A future in which spacebecomes a domain of conﬂict and arms race competition maybe irreconcilable with visions for increasing peaceful humanpresence embodied in today’s growing commercial andexploratory activities. Choices among alternative futures forthe human presence in space may depend upon choices amongalternative futures for life on Earth as well.
That escalates – another space arms race breaks down all cooperation and results in global rapid militarization and escalation as all liberal institutions collapse

BOCK KROC Institute for Intl Peace Studies, Notre Dame IN. et al 2k9

Joseph G.-, Wade L. Huntley-US Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA; Miranda Weingartner-WeingartnerConsultingm, Ontario Canada; Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space; SPACE POLICY XX (2009) 1-14; SCIENCEDIRECT online; http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA523690
4.3. Scenario A: ‘‘Back to the Future’’ ‘‘Back to the Future’’ describes a future characterized by a high degree of technological breakthrough wherein power is projected by rule of force. In 2009 global tensions create an atmosphere where nations increasingly test new defensive technology. In 2010 India explodes a satellite out of Low-Earth orbit (LEO) and the USA tests an orbital interceptor. Gazprom invests $1 billion in the development of a nanotechnology research lab. There is also a steady erosion of Outer Space Treaty norms and limits to protect commerce. By 2013 NATO is dissolved, seen as no longer relevant. The EU alliance shifts towards defending its borders. Human spaceflight continues, in an increasingly competitive atmosphere. The USA launches Aries I, with a crew. Generation Y seems more interested in environmental issues than space. By 2014 many nations begin deploying anti-satellite (ASAT) technology. In 2015 China, the USA, India and Russia field rival ASATs in orbit, as LEO orbits are at risk from debris. Commercial interests give up on LEO and eye the Moon, which fuels the race to establish a presence there. An increasingly protectionist USA leaves the World Trade Organization (WTO). In response, China recalls its debts from the USA. Meanwhile, European and Asian growth continues and, in 2018, a Chinese factory begins production of bulk carbon nanotubes. The USA and China race to produce the first space elevator. The civil lunar programs move forward. By 2020 a joint USeEU team land on and ‘reclaim’ the Moon. Lunar bases and the space elevator are established, as resources continue to dwindle on earth. Rival moon bases compete over mining rights and orbital lasers promote a defensive arms race in space. NATO is replaced by a new European Defence Organization (EDO). A coalition emerges, including the USA, the EU and India, in opposition to Russia and China. By 2025 African nations reject the influence of major powers and, thanks to the proliferation of technology, become space powers in their own right. In 2028 major powers withdraw from the Outer Space Treaty. Saudi oil fields are now officially empty, and the lunar colonies’ major export is solar power. Military bases on the Moon defend against rival solar farms. A Russian-Chinese coalition attacks the space elevator, which essentially strands the US-EU lunar colonies and seriously impairs energy availability on Earth. The UN breaks down and is dismantled. Treaties are ignored and tensions increase. The earth is highly militarized, and conflict occurs both on earth and in space. The future is tense, dark and uncertain. By 2030 Californian scientists claim to have discovered an alleged artificial signal from outer space. The signal offers the possibility of a new reason for hope. 4.4. Group observations on Scenario A In this scenario technological breakthroughs add to the rule of force rather than providing a means for international cooperation. States come together and drift apart based on their perceived interests. The group acknowledged the importance of ‘‘giving teeth’’ to the Outer Space Treaty and other treaties in order to enhance means of overcoming conflict in the future. However, treaties do erode when states or blocs of states perceive these no longer to serve their interests. Further, norms of the Outer Space Treaty may be eroded through the commercialization of space, rather than by conflict and militarization. The group recognized that cooperation is possible on some, but not all, issues. Following the Chinese recent ASAT test there were efforts to clarify the situation for all parties concerned and prevent repeat occurrences. This suggests in part that the UN breaking down is not realistic, and that there might be greater political will to move in a collaborative direction than the scenario suggests. The competition for resources breaks down liberal order and traps states into a situation where the rule of force is perceived as the only option. In this scenario democracies are not less likely to militarize. Politicians bear the responsibility for the implications of their actions. NASA remains a remnant of the Cold War, while the EU space plan is geared towards a broader array of concerns. The voice of civil society is then squashed. (There is also an option of a scenario where, instead of the EU, China becomes a regional champion, bringing other regional leaders like Brazil under a new transparent framework.) The rule of force is also justified for the protection of investments.
The impact is extinction – space based warfare results in hair trigger nuclear use and accidental escalation with nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons

MITCHELL et al,Prof of Communication & Director of Debate @ Univ of Pitt 2k1

Gordon-ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense, July http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html

A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, 'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.

===Advantage 2 is US Leadership=== 

US leadership is trapped by a state of disarray – the rise of the rest has threatened US lead on competitive and innovation based fronts, however a dysfunctional political system is threatening the resiliency of US leadership – the United States must adapt to the new world order

Zakaria, ’11 – editor of Newsweek International and managing editor of Foreign Affairs [Fareed Zakaria, B.A. from Yale and a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard, 3/3/11, “Are America's Best Days Behind Us?”, http://www.fareedzakaria.com/home/Articles/Entries/2011/3/3_Are_Americas_Best_Days_Behind_Us.html]

I am an American, not by accident of birth but by choice. I voted with my feet and became an American because I love this country and think it is exceptional. But when I look at the world today and the strong winds of technological change and global competition, it makes me nervous. Perhaps most unsettling is the fact that while these forces gather strength, Americans seem unable to grasp the magnitude of the challenges that face us. Despite the hyped talk of China's rise, most Americans operate on the assumption that the U.S. is still No. 1. But is it? Yes, the U.S. remains the world's largest economy, and we have the largest military by far, the most dynamic technology companies and a highly entrepreneurial climate. But these are snapshots of where we are right now. The decisions that created today's growth — decisions about education, infrastructure and the like — were made decades ago. What we see today is an American economy that has boomed because of policies and developments of the 1950s and '60s: the interstate-highway system, massive funding for science and technology, a public-education system that was the envy of the world and generous immigration policies. Look at some underlying measures today, and you will wonder about the future. The following rankings come from various lists, but they all tell the same story. According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), our 15-year-olds rank 17th in the world in science and 25th in math. We rank 12th among developed countries in college graduation (down from No. 1 for decades). We come in 79th in elementary-school enrollment. Our infrastructure is ranked 23rd in the world, well behind that of every other major advanced economy. American health numbers are stunning for a rich country: based on studies by the OECD and the World Health Organization, we're 27th in life expectancy, 18th in diabetes and first in obesity. Only a few decades ago, the U.S. stood tall in such rankings. No more. There are some areas in which we are still clearly No. 1, but they're not ones we usually brag about. We have the most guns. We have the most crime among rich countries. And, of course, we have by far the largest amount of debt in the world. The Rise of the Rest Many of these changes have taken place not because of America's missteps but because other countries are now playing the same game we are — and playing to win. There is a familiar refrain offered when these concerns are raised: "We heard all this in the 1980s. Japan was going to dominate the globe. It didn't happen, and America ended up back on top." It's a fair point as far as it goes. Japan did not manage to become the world's richest country — though for three decades it had the second largest economy and even now has the third largest. It is also a relatively small country. To become the largest economy in the world, it would have to have a per capita GDP twice that of the U.S. China would need to have an average income only one-fourth that of the U.S. to develop an economy that would surpass ours. But this misses the broader point. The Harvard historian Niall Ferguson, who has just written a book, Civilization: The West and the Rest, puts things in historical context: "For 500 years the West patented six killer applications that set it apart. The first to download them was Japan. Over the last century, one Asian country after another has downloaded these killer apps — competition, modern science, the rule of law and private property rights, modern medicine, the consumer society and the work ethic. Those six things are the secret sauce of Western civilization." To this historical challenge from nations that have figured out how the West won, add a technological revolution. It is now possible to produce more goods and services with fewer and fewer people, to shift work almost anywhere in the world and to do all this at warp speed. That is the world the U.S. now faces. Yet the country seems unready for the kind of radical adaptation it needs. The changes we are currently debating amount to rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic. Sure, the political system seems to be engaged in big debates about the budget, pensions and the nation's future. But this is mostly a sideshow. The battles in state capitals over public-employee pensions are real — the states are required to balance their budgets — but the larger discussion in Washington is about everything except what's important. The debate between Democrats and Republicans on the budget excludes the largest drivers of the long-term deficit — Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare — to say nothing of the biggest nonentitlement costs, like the tax break for interest on mortgages. Only four months ago, the Simpson-Bowles commission presented a series of highly intelligent solutions to our fiscal problems, proposing $4 trillion in savings, mostly through cuts in programs but also through some tax increases. They have been forgotten by both parties, in particular the Republicans, whose leading budgetary spokesman, Paul Ryan, praises the commission in the abstract even though he voted against its recommendations. Democrats, for their part, became apoplectic about a proposal to raise the retirement age for Social Security by one year — in 2050. Instead, Washington is likely to make across-the-board cuts in discretionary spending, where there is much less money and considerably less waste. President Obama's efforts to preserve and even increase resources for core programs appear to be failing in a Congress determined to demonstrate its clout. But reducing funds for things like education, scientific research, air-traffic control, NASA, infrastructure and alternative energy will not produce much in savings, and it will hurt the economy's long-term growth. It would happen at the very moment that countries from Germany to South Korea to China are making large investments in education, science, technology and infrastructure. We are cutting investments and subsidizing consumption — exactly the opposite of what are the main drivers of economic growth. So why are we tackling our economic problems in a manner that is shortsighted and wrong-footed? Because it is politically easy. The key to understanding the moves by both parties is that, for the most part, they are targeting programs that have neither a wide base of support nor influential interest groups behind them. (And that's precisely why they're not where the money is. The American political system is actually quite efficient. It distributes the big bucks to popular programs and powerful special interests.) And neither side will even talk about tax increases, though it is impossible to achieve long-term fiscal stability without them. Certain taxes — such as ones on carbon or gas — would have huge benefits beyond revenue, like energy efficiency. It's not that our democracy doesn't work; it's that it works only too well. American politics is now hyperresponsive to constituents' interests. And all those interests are dedicated to preserving the past rather than investing for the future. There are no lobbying groups for the next generation of industries, only for those companies that are here now with cash to spend. There are no special-interest groups for our children's economic well-being, only for people who get government benefits right now. The whole system is geared to preserve current subsidies, tax breaks and loopholes. That is why the federal government spends $4 on elderly people for every $1 it spends on those under 18. And when the time comes to make cuts, guess whose programs are first on the chopping board. That is a terrible sign of a society's priorities and outlook. The Perils of Success Why have our priorities become so mangled? Several decades ago, economist Mancur Olson wrote a book called The Rise and Decline of Nations. He was prompted by what he thought was a strange paradox after World War II. Britain, having won the war, slipped into deep stagnation, while Germany, the loser, grew powerfully year after year. Britain's fall was even more perplexing considering that it was the creator of the Industrial Revolution and was the world's original economic superpower. Olson concluded that, paradoxically, it was success that hurt Britain, while failure helped Germany. British society grew comfortable, complacent and rigid, and its economic and political arrangements became ever more elaborate and costly, focused on distribution rather than growth. Labor unions, the welfare state, protectionist policies and massive borrowing all shielded Britain from the new international competition. The system became sclerotic, and over time, the economic engine of the world turned creaky and sluggish. Germany, by contrast, was almost entirely destroyed by World War II. That gave it a chance not just to rebuild its physical infrastructure but also to revise its antiquated arrangements and institutions — the political system, the guilds, the economy — with a more modern frame of mind. Defeat made it possible to question everything and rebuild from scratch. America's success has made it sclerotic. We have sat on top of the world for almost a century, and our repeated economic, political and military victories have made us quite sure that we are destined to be No. 1 forever. We have some advantages. Size matters: when crises come, they do not overwhelm a country as big as the U.S. When the financial crisis hit nations such as Greece and Ireland, it dwarfed them. In the U.S., the problems occurred within the context of a $15 trillion economy and in a country that still has the trust of the world. Over the past three years, in the wake of the financial crisis, U.S. borrowing costs have gone down, not up. This is a powerful affirmation of America's strengths, but the problem is that they ensure that the U.S. will not really face up to its challenges. We adjust to the crisis of the moment and move on, but the underlying cancer continues to grow, eating away at the system. A crucial aspect of beginning to turn things around would be for the U.S. to make an honest accounting of where it stands and what it can learn from other countries. This kind of benchmarking is common among businesses but is sacrilege for the country as a whole. Any politician who dares suggest that the U.S. can learn from — let alone copy — other countries is likely to be denounced instantly. If someone points out that Europe gets better health care at half the cost, that's dangerously socialist thinking. If a business leader notes that tax rates in much of the industrialized world are lower and that there are far fewer loopholes than in the U.S., he is brushed aside as trying to impoverish American workers. If a commentator says — correctly — that social mobility from one generation to the next is greater in many European nations than in the U.S., he is laughed at. Yet several studies, the most recent from the OECD last year, have found that the average American has a much lower chance of moving out of his parents' income bracket than do people in places like Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Canada. And it's not just politicians and business leaders. It's all of us. Americans simply don't care much, know much or want to learn much about the outside world. We think of America as a globalized society because it has been at the center of the forces of globalization. But actually, the American economy is quite insular; exports account for only about 10% of it. Compare that with the many European countries where half the economy is trade-related, and you can understand why those societies seem more geared to international standards and competition. And that's the key to a competitive future for the U.S. If Olson is right in saying successful societies get sclerotic, the solution is to stay flexible. That means being able to start and shut down companies and hire and fire people. But it also means having a government that can help build out new technologies and infrastructure, that invests in the future and that can eliminate programs that stop working. When Franklin Roosevelt launched the New Deal, he spoke of the need for "bold, persistent experimentation," and he shut down programs when it was clear they didn't work. Today, every government program and subsidy seems eternal. What the Founding Fathers Knew Is any of this possible in a rich, democratic country? In fact it is. The countries of Northern Europe — Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland — have created a fascinating and mixed model of political economy. Their economies are extremely open and market-based. Most of them score very high on the Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom. But they also have generous welfare states and make major investments for future growth. Over the past 20 years, these countries have grown nearly as fast as, or in some cases faster than, the U.S. Germany has managed to retain its position as the world's export engine despite high wages and generous benefits. Now, America should not and cannot simply copy the Nordic model or any other. Americans would rebel at the high taxes that Northern Europeans pay — and those taxes are proving uncompetitive in a world where many other European countries have much lower rates and Singapore has a maximum personal rate of 20%. The American system is more dynamic, entrepreneurial and unequal than that of Europe and will remain so. But the example of Northern Europe shows that rich countries can stay competitive if they remain flexible, benchmark rigorously and embrace efficiency. American companies are, of course, highly efficient, but American government is not. By this I don't mean to echo the usual complaints about waste, fraud and abuse. In fact, there is less of those things than Americans think, except in the Pentagon with its $700 billion budget. The problem with the U.S. government is that its allocation of resources is highly inefficient. We spend vast amounts of money on subsidies for housing, agriculture and health, many of which distort the economy and do little for long-term growth. We spend too little on science, technology, innovation and infrastructure, which will produce growth and jobs in the future. For the past few decades, we have been able to be wasteful and get by. But we will not be able to do it much longer. The money is running out, and we will have to marshal funds and target spending far more strategically. This is not a question of too much or too little government, too much or too little spending. We need more government and more spending in some places and less in others. The tragedy is that Washington knows this. For all the partisan polarization there, most Republicans know that we have to invest in some key areas, and most Democrats know that we have to cut entitlement spending. But we have a political system that has become allergic to compromise and practical solutions. This may be our greatest blind spot. At the very moment that our political system has broken down, one hears only encomiums to it, the Constitution and the perfect Republic that it created. Now, as an immigrant, I love the special and, yes, exceptional nature of American democracy. I believe that the Constitution was one of the wonders of the world — in the 18th century. But today we face the reality of a system that has become creaky. We have an Electoral College that no one understands and a Senate that doesn't work, with rules and traditions that allow a single Senator to obstruct democracy without even explaining why. We have a crazy-quilt patchwork of towns, municipalities and states with overlapping authority, bureaucracies and resulting waste. We have a political system geared toward ceaseless fundraising and pandering to the interests of the present with no ability to plan, invest or build for the future. And if one mentions any of this, why, one is being unpatriotic, because we have the perfect system of government, handed down to us by demigods who walked the earth in the late 18th century and who serve as models for us today and forever.
RESTORlNG US SPACE LEADERSHIP THROUGH THE PLAN SOLVES

Policy chaos resulting from a lack of concrete visions and plans results in a collapsing aerospace i ndustrial base, decaying infrastructure, and kills US credibility to foreign partners

ATKINS Fmr chief of staff House Committee on Sci and Tech&NEWTON Dir for Aerospace and Def policy @ U of Ala 2k10

Chuck-former chief of staff to the US House of Representatives Committee on Science and Technology & Elizabeth- Take the Chaos Out of US Space Policy; May 10; SPACE NEWS ONLINE;

http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html

The current debate over U.S. civil space policy makes for fascinating reading, but recurring political chaos about the nation’s space exploration goals benefits no one.Leaving aside for a moment the merits of President Barack Obama’s proposal to redefine the human spaceflight program of NASA, we as a nation should ask: How should our country best make such judgments and, perhaps more important, how can we establish a process that would avoid the kind of instability we are experiencing and lead to better results? As we know, NASA originated in post-World War II geopolitics for the purpose of developing space systems that would help us master outer space for domestic and international benefits.The political decision to extend our mastery of new territory outside Earth’s orbit was a relatively easy one; at the time, the Soviet Union’s actions made clear the political and technological costs of not acting. Political choices about the space program today are not so obvious, and it is increasingly clear that the United States needs a better way of setting priorities, goals and missions for human space exploration than was used during Cold War conditions. By rough count, since 1969 there have been 24 presidential blue-ribbon panels and agency evaluations of NASA’s human space exploration direction, 22 attempts by Congress to terminate the international space station program and cancellations of at least 10 projects related to a space shuttle replacement. While NASA’s budget for human space exploration is approximately 0.5 percent of the total federal budget, these aborted projects represent billions of dollars that could have been spent achieving something for America. The programmatic churn results not only in a price tag for unrealized projects but also in the well-documented erosion of our aerospace industrial base, decaying infrastructure and the disengagement of our brightest young minds. We should add to this cost the country’s loss of credibility and stature when we derail the plans of our international partners and abandon leadership in one of the few remaining areas where we truly are pre-eminent. In short, churn carries many opportunity costs. The United States deserves a sustainable human space exploration effort that is responsibly planned and given the consistent support necessary for a complex technical effort to succeed. In this age of record deficits, unemployment and troubling geopolitics, we — or rather our elected leaders — could choose to proceed differently this time around, with a vision for policy stability. The key challenge is that reconsiderations of space policy seem to match the length of the presidential election cycle, or sometimes even the annual appropriations cycle. We need to provide greater intellectual continuity to these reviews if we are to have any hope of policy stability. Policy stability is not an unheard-of feat; examples exist where a prioritization process stabilizes long-term national plans while still enabling political accountability for public resources. For example, for the past 40 years, the space science community and, more recently, the Earth science community have managed an inclusive, deliberate process to determine the most important questions and missions of their disciplines for the decade to come. Their process sets 10-year research and technology priorities, taking the guesswork out of the scientific ends that the government should support, thereby reducing and even avoiding the annual churn otherwise created by the U.S. government’s legislative process or election cycles. The executive branch and Congress accept the scientific communities’ priorities and goals and determine the amount of public resources available. While funding and schedules can and do change with the budget process, the goals and destinations in space do not. It is time for human space exploration to be put on similar footing so that the political decisions are less about what the priorities, goals and missions are, and more about how many the country can afford at a given point in time, especially relative to other national needs. A managed and regular prioritization process should replace episodic, ad hoc presidential commissions in order to ensure that the compelling questions for human space exploration are asked and answered with an enduring consensus in an accountable way and that diverse and iconoclastic views are considered.
This threatens US national security and economic and soft power leadership

STERNER fellow @ the George C. Marshall Institute 2k10

Eric R.-he held senior staff positions on the House Armed Services and Science Committees and served in the Dept. of Defense and as NASA’s associate deputy administrator for Policy and Planning; Unforced Errors in the New National Space Policy;inFOCUS QUARTERLY, Fall; http://www.jewishpolicycenter.org/1889/national-space-policy

The United States has wrestled with the space age's implications since before the Soviet Union launched the first artificial satellite in 1957. Successive presidents often approached space issues in clusters of national security, civil, and commercial activities. More often than not, they addressed those issues in isolation from one another as problems arose. Consequently, national space policy has been frequently disjointed and given short shrift to interdependencies across the three sectors. This created substantial risk for U.S. space power, which is a critical component of its national security, economy, and soft power leadership. The U.S. space industry is a net exporter of goods and services, making it economically important, and space-derived goods and services form key components of critical U.S. infrastructure. Global space spending totaled some $262 billion last year with the United States clearly the dominant player. The U.S. armed forces depend on space systems, such as the Global Positioning System, communications satellites, and reconnaissance satellites for the global projection of American power. NASA has been the recognized leader of international efforts to explore space and U.S. commercial firms have led global space commerce. To its credit, the Obama administration, which released its National Space Policy in June 2010, attempted to reconcile that disjointedness. The policy is comprehensive, addressing issues in all three sectors, and forward leaning, seeking to fundamentally change the manner in which the U.S. government approaches civil space activity. Unfortunately, the policy contains a number of unforced errors that present real risks for U.S. national space power.
US Economic leadership key to global economic resiliency and prevent inevitable economic crises from escalating

Mandelbaum– Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins, ’05 [Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]

Although the spread of nuclear weapons, with the corresponding increase in the likelihood that a nuclear shot would be fired in anger somewhere in the world, counted as the most serious potential consequence of the abandonment by the United States of its role as the world's government, it was not the only one. In the previous period of American international reticence, the 1920s and 1930s, the global economy suffered serious damage that a more active American role might have mitigated. A twenty-first-century American retreat could have similarly adverse international economic consequences. The economic collapse of the 1930s caused extensive hardship throughout the world and led indirectly to World War II by paving the way for the people who started it to gain power in Germany and Japan. In retrospect, the Great Depression is widely believed to have been caused by a series of errors in public policy that made an economic downturn far worse than it would have been had governments responded to it in appropriate fashion. Since the 1930s, acting on the lessons drawn from that experience by professional economists, governments have taken steps that have helped to prevent a recurrence of the disasters of that decade.5 In the face of reduced demand, for example, governments have increased rather than cut spending. Fiscal and monetary crises have evoked rescue efforts rather than a studied indifference based on the assumption that market forces will readily reestablish a desirable economic equilibrium. In contrast to the widespread practice of the 1930s, political authorities now understand that putting up barriers to imports in an attempt to revive domestic production will in fact worsen economic conditions everywhere. Still, a serious, prolonged failure of the international economy, inflicting the kind of hardship the world experienced in the 1930s (which some Asian countries also suffered as a result of their fiscal crises in the 1990s) does not lie beyond the realm of possibility. Market economies remain subject to cyclical downturns, which public policy can limit but has not found a way to eliminate entirely. Markets also have an inherent tendency to form bubbles, excessive values for particular assets, whether seventeenth century Dutch tulips or twentieth century Japanese real estate and Thai currency, that cause economic harm when the bubble bursts and prices plunge. In responding to these events, governments can make errors. They can act too slowly, or fail to implement the proper policies, or implement improper ones. Moreover, the global economy and the national economies that comprise it, like a living organism, change constantly and sometimes rapidly: Capital flows across sovereign borders, for instance, far more rapidly and in much greater volume in the early twenty-first century than ever before. This means that measures that successfully address economic malfunctions at one time may have less effect at another, just as medical science must cope with the appearance of new strains of influenza against which existing vaccines are not effective. Most importantly, since the Great Depression, an active American international economic role has been crucial both in fortifying the conditions for global economic well-being and in coping with the problems that have occurred, especially periodic recessions and currency crises, by applying the lessons of the past. The absence of such a role could weaken those conditions and aggravate those problems. The overall American role in the world since World War II therefore has something in common with the theme of the Frank Capra film It's a Wonderful Life, in which the angel Clarence, played by Henry Travers, shows James Stewart, playing the bank clerk George Bailey, who believes his existence to have been worthless, how life in his small town of Bedford Falls would have unfolded had he never been born. George Bailey learns that people he knows and loves turn out to be far worse off without him. So it is with the United States and its role as the world's government. Without that role, the world very likely would have been in the past, and would become a less secure and less prosperous place. The abdication by the United States of some or all of the responsibilities for international security that it had come to bear in the first decade of the twenty-first century would deprive the international system of one of its principal safety features, which keeps countries from smashing into each other, as they are historically prone to do. In this sense, a world without America would be the equivalent of a freeway full of cars without brakes. Similarly, should the American government abandon some or all of the ways in which it had, at the dawn of the new century, come to support global economic activity, the world economy would function less effectively and might even suffer a severe and costly breakdown. A world without the United States would in this way resemble a fleet of cars without gasoline.


=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]