[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Niles Township Dam Removal 1ac== 

===Contention One: Inherency=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Over 430 dams have been dismantled in the last decade thanks to conservationists</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MSNBC 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44554709/ns/us_news-environment/t/largest-dam-removal-aims-bring-salmon-back/#.UAdWrjFWrnM, NBC, msnbc.com and news services, Largest dam removal aims to bring salmon back, ¶ 9/18/2011 2:26:17 AM ET)</span>
There has been an acceleration in dam removal in recent years in the United States
AND
//by dams and// questioning the safety of the impoundments, especially older ones.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">However, the federal government has chosen to maintain four major dams in the Snake River – despite the recommendation of an impartial judge</span>
William <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yardley</span>, writer for New York Times,4/26/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span> (April 26, 2012, “Now Off Case, Judge Weighs In on Dams”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/27/us/judge-says-snake-river-dams-should-go.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SEATTLE </span>__— A federal judge who spent a decade presiding over one of the most__ 
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">judge can do. But you can raise hell, and I did.” </span>

===Contention Two: Snake River Ecosystems=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Snake River dams are killing sockeye salmon – it’s a keystone species</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gray</span>, writer for Men’s Journal,3/13/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span> (Kevin, “Last Chance to Save the Salmon” Mens Journal, [[http://www.bluefish.org/lastsave.htm]])
__On the Lower Snake River__ -- the Columbia River's largest tributary -- __four dams in__ 
__AND__
River. "**__But it isn't. //The culprit is these gargantuan dams.//__**"

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">137 species rely on Snake River salmon for survival – including birds and land animals</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">S</span>ave <span style="font-size: 13pt;">O</span>ur <span style="font-size: 13pt;">W</span>ild <span style="font-size: 13pt;">S</span>almon<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, environmental advocacy group, </span>3/6/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2009</span> (“Why Restore Wild Salmon?”, Save Our Wild Salmon,
[[http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html]])
__Salmon and steelhead represent a critical ecological nutrient link between our oceans and our rivers__ 
__AND__
**__sea__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and again feed the people and wildlife of the Pacific Northwest</span>.

Biodiversity loss outweighs all impacts
Tobin 90
(Richard Tobin, THE EXPENDABLE FUTURE, 1990, p. 22 )

Norman Meyers observes, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">no other form of </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> diversity by destruction of natural habitats. </span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Orca whales need the salmon – only removing the dams helps both species survive</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hawley</span>, environmental journalist,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 2010</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steven, journalist, author of //Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities//, quotes Ken Balcomb, director for the Center for Whale Research on San Juan Island in Puget Sound, “The Idaho Tide,” Summer, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.patagonia.com/us/patagonia.go?&assetid=53761]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, LVS)</span>
The sin lies not in the wilderness, but in the dammed. Wild Idaho
AND
//only way to take advantage of it is to tear out the dams.////”//

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Puget Sound orcas are key to the global ocean ecosystem</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">National Wildlife Federation 06 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Orcas on the Edge,” 10/1, http://www.nwf.org/News-and-Magazines/National-Wildlife/Animals/Archives/2006/Orcas-on-the-Edge.aspx)</span>
Saving Puget Sound orcas will require cleaning up toxic waste sites, stemming storm-
AND
//marine ecosystem. And that ecosystem is two-thirds of our planet."//
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marine ecosystem collapse causes extinction of all species</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Craig</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law,</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 2003</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robin Kundis, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, just as they </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">- even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Biodiversity is approaching the tipping point, now is key</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Terra Daily 6/11/12</span> (Staff writers, TerraDaily: News About Planet Earth, [[http://www.terradaily.com/reports/Study_predicts_imminent_irreversible_planetary_collapse_999.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Using scientific theories, </span>**__toy ecosystem modeling and paleontological evidence as a crystal ball,__** 
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">know them, could irreversibly collapse in the proverbial blink of an eye.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dams destroy ecosystems – river connectivity is key</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Higgs</span>, JD, now an associate in the Perkins Cole Environment, Energy, and Resources Group, et al, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2002</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen Higgs, then a conservation assistant at American Rivers, and edited by Elizabeth Maclin and Margaret Bowman of //American Rivers// and Angela Bednarek of the //University of Pennsylvania//. February 2002.”THE ECOLOGY OF DAM REMOVAL: A Summary of Benefits and Impacts”, http://www.michigandnr.com/PUBLICATIONS/PDFS/fishing/dams/EcologyofDamRemoval.pdf)</span>
Ecological Consequences of Dams
__A dam disrupts river connectivity and can block passage both up- and downstream for__ 
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">combined </span>__negative impact of dams on aquatic species can adversely impact__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>__reproduction.__


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Biodiversity loss risks extinction</span>
**Walsh 10** [Bryan, covers environment, energy and — when the need arises — particularly alarming diseases for TIME magazine, Wildlife: A Global Convention on Biodiversity Opens in Japan, But Can It Make a Difference? October 18, 2010 http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2010/10/18/wildlife-a-global-convention-on-biodiversity-opens-in-japan-but-can-it-make-a-difference/#ixzz131wU6CSp]
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The story of non-human life on the planet Earth over the past few </span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">forgive us. We're losing nature.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> And </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that loss really is forever.</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Biodiversity loss will cause extinction-this cycle is unique.</span>
Jerry **__Coyne__**, Professor of Ecology at University of Chicago and Hopi Hoekstra, Professor of Biology at Harvard, 9/24/**__’7__**
([[http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatest-dying]])
Aside from the Great Dying, there have been four other mass extinctions, all
AND
__just another Great Dying, but__ perhaps **__the greatest dying of them all.__**

===Contention Three: Native Culture=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Klamath River Dam kills culture, the FERC should kill it.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCovey 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Donald McCovey journalist, The Times-Standard, 07/11/2012 02:35:21 AM PDT, http://www.times-standard.com/guest_opinion/ci_21050463/time-different-direction-klamath-dam-removal)phol</span>

The Resighini Rancheria is a small federally recognized tribe with a reservation at the top 
AND
for fish ladders that cost $240 million will render the project uneconomic.


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FERC key to removing K river dam.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hostler 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allie Hostler, Two Rivers Tribune, July 9, 2012, Siskiyou County Calls for FERC Action on Klamath Dams, Stalling Brings About Call to Actionhttp://www.tworiverstribune.com/2012/07/siskiyou-county-calls-for-ferc-action-on-klamath-dams/)phol</span>

Others disagree, like the Northwest Regional Director of the Pacific Coast Federation of
AND
. The meeting will be held on July 17, 2012 in Sacramento.



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Native Americans are currently the victims of cultural genocide.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rozzell 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rozzell, Kristin Lynn, Ph.D., The University of Texas at Arlington, 2007, Reinventing the self: Native American women's autobiographies, http://proquest.umi.com/pqdweb?RQT=305&attempt=1&skip=1&SQ=STYPE(dissertation)+AND+ISBN(9780549319733)&cfc=1)phol</span>

Native Americans do not have a champion as powerful as Spielberg, and their own
AND
a general apathy toward them is still a threat to native American cultures.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Genocide is a process, not an event.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rosenberg 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sheri P. Rosenberg, Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, New York, “Genocide Is a Process, Not an Event”, Genocide Studies and Prevention, Volume 7, Number 1, Spring 2012http://muse.jhu.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/journals/genocide_studies_and_prevention/v007/7.1.rosenberg.html)phol</span>


Among the categories of inquiry, there has been a thread of scholarship explicitly dedicated
AND
aids in the interpretation of the UNCG’s dual goals of prevention and punishment.

===Plan=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The United States Federal Government should remove the Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental, Little Goose, and Lower Granite dams.</span>

===Contention Four: Solvency=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal Government must pay do and fund the project</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Betsy </span>**Otto 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Former Vice Prsident 1999-2011of American Rivers Program, October 2000, “Paying for Dam Removal: A Guide to Selected Funding Sources,” American Rivers, http://www.michigandnr.com/publications/pdfs/Fishing/dams/Paying-Dam-Removal.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Specific Federal Congressional Appropriations </span>**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>__****__A number of federal agencies can be authorized by Congress__** 
**__AND__**
**__of Engineers to remove the Embrey Dam__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the Rappahannock River in Virginia. </span>




===Contention Five: No War=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Prefer our data – empirics disprove the vast majority of war and escalation claims</span>
**Goldstein**, professor emeritus of international relations at American University, **and Pinker**, psychology professor at Harvard, **2011** [Joshua S. Goldstein and Steven Pinker. “War is really going out of style.” The New York Times. December 18, 2011. Lexis.] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE departure of the last American troops from Iraq brings relief to a nation that </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__Neither North nor South Korea could win a war at an acceptable cost.__

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The media exaggerates violence – war is on the decline</span>
**Goldstein 2011** [Joshua Goldstein, professor emeritus of international relations at American University. “Think again: war.” Foreign Policy. Sept/Oct 2011. [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/think_again_war?page=full]]] AP
__If the world feels like a more violent place than it actually is, that's__ 
__AND__
__our behavior can sink, not of how high our standards have risen."__

Major war won’t happen

a.) Nuclear weapons, and economics


Deudney et al 9
<span style="background-color: white;">professor of political science at John Hopkins (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs,http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)</span>

This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing
AND
**__international system is__** far more **__primed for peace__** than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">International conflict is obsolete - the costs far outweigh any benefits</span>
**Mandelbaum**, Christian A. Herter Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy program at Johns Hopkins University, **1999** [Michael Mandelbaum. “Is Major War Obsolete?” Great Debate Series. February 25, 1999. [[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]]]
__My argument says__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, tacitly, that while this point of view, which was </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__in the ascendant, our own, liberalism, tends to be pacific.__
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]