= = 
=[[toc]]  Affirmative= 
==Other plan texts we've read:== 
Text: The United States Congress should offer Alaskan land grants for the completion of the Bering Strait tunnel within the maritime boundary of the United States.

==Contention 1 is Inherency== 

**Russia is fully committed to a Bering Strait tunnel—US support is the key barrier and the project would permanently cement US-Russian relations**
**MOSCOW NEWS 2012**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Tunneling to America?” April 28, lexis)</span>
__Russia__s Urals oil has been over …could be welded in steel.

**A massive __new__ transportation infrastructure spending bill was already passed this year**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon 6/29</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, staff writer, Congress passes transportation bill, halts __[[#|student loan]]__ rate hike, LA Times, 6/29/12, NP)</span>
WASHINGTON — <span class="DebateUnderline">Congress, in a rare display …projects in traffic-choked regions</span>.
==<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 2 is Winter is Coming</span>== 

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Obama’s Russian reset is doomed to failure – establishing economic ties is the only way to maintain relations</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">RFE/RL 10-3</span>-12 (Radio Free Europe, Radio Liberty, "Lavrov Says Russia-U.S. 'Reset' Can't Last Forever," [[http://www.rferl.org/content/lavrov-says-us-russia-reset-cant-last-forever/24727492.html]]//[10.04.12]//LL)
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Lavrov…</span> the cost of thousands of lives.

**The plan is key to rebuilding them – overcomes any alt causes**
**Kirakofe, 6-24**
[Clifford, professor at the Virginia Military Institute, US, Russia need to see their ties grow, Global Times, 6-24-2012, [[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml]]]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the interest of world peace</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the US elections in November.</span>

**Bering Strait tunnel is key to Russian influence**
**__ASSOCIATED PRESS__ 2007**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Hopes for Bering Strait tunnel linking Russia and Alaska revived, April 20, lexis)</span>
An idea first mulled in the …world leaders," the statement said.

**The aff cements a permanent peace of US-Russia cooperation**
**Barry 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [ Mark P. Barry, //Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace,// October 04, 2011//,// “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]], DMintz]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The Russian Impact on the U.S. and Canada</span>
Aside from building an ACRL,… task of permanent peace-building.

**Good Russian relations key to US soft power, climate, international trade, resource prices, regional conflicts, and the economy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Collins and Rojansky 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> James [appointed the director of the Russia and Eurasia __[[#|Program]]__ in January of 2007 He is an expert on the former Soviet Union, its successor states, and on the Middle East Ambassador Collins was the U.S. ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001. Prior to joining the Carnegie Endowment, he served as senior adviser at the public law and policy practice group Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, LLP] and Matthew [deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment. An expert on U.S. and Russian national security and nuclear weapons policies, his __[[#|work]]__ focuses on relations among the United States, NATO, and the states of the former Soviet Union. Additionally, he is responsible for Carnegie’s Ukraine Program and analysis of politics and security in Eastern Europe, including Belarus and Moldova. From 2007–2010, Rojansky served as executive director of the Partnership for a Secure America (PSA). Founded by former Congressman Lee Hamilton (D-IN) and former Senator Warren Rudman (R-NH), with a group of two dozen former senior leaders from both political parties, PSA seeks to rebuild bipartisan dialogue and productive debate on U.S. national security and foreign policy challenges. While at PSA, Rojansky orchestrated high-level bipartisan initiatives aimed at repairing the U.S.–Russia relationship, strengthening the U.S. commitment to nuclear arms control and nonproliferation, and leveraging global science engagement for diplomacy] “Why Russia Matters” //The Carnegie Endowment// 8/18/10 accessed: 6/29/12 </span>[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2010/08/18/why-russia-matters/3si]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> DR</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A year and a half after</span> …own borders, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it will have no choice.</span>

**We control all major impacts—everything is easier with Russian cooperation and harder without it**
**CFR TASK FORCE 2006** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf)</span>
Since the dissolution of the … with Russia are on a positive track.


==Contention 3 is Integration== 

**The plan leads to global rail integration—solves all war**
Craig <span class="Heading4Char">Burroughs </span>2/11/<span class="Heading4Char">10</span> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]], I.P.)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The benefits to international …real or perceived international injustices.</span>

**The aff would revitalize rail connections worldwide**
**PETROVSKY 2011**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Dr. Vladimir Petrovsky, Chief Researcher and Academic Secretary for Public and Media Relations, Institute of Far Eastern Studies (IFES), Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS), Member, Russian Academy of Military Sciences, Member, Council on International Cooperation, Russian Political Science Association (RPSA), Professor, Chair of Global Politics, Higher School of Economics, “Bering Strait Project - Russian Perspective Update,” Oct 4, http://www.upf.org/component/content/article/4018-v-petrovsky-bering-strait-project-russian-perspective-update)</span>
The Russian Railways Strategy does … a 'renaissance of railways."[10]

**Power links will be laid before the railroad is even completed—this alone pays for the project**
**BURROUGHS 2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>
The rail right-of-way can …completion of the overall project<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Connecting the US and Russian electrical grids spills over to unite the entire planet—solves energy availability and makes growth sustainable**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GENI 11</span> (9-6-11, Global Energy Network Institute, "Global Energy Grid - The Details," [[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/issues/overview/grid.shtml#existingtechnology|http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/issues/overview/grid.shtml#existingtechnology]]//[08.21.12]//LL)
All the earth's __resources__ were catalogued,…<span class="StyleUnderline"> environmental protection and sustainable development. </span>

**Plan leads to global energy connectivity unifying the globe and stabilizing population and preventing environmental catastrophe.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Buckminster </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fuller</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, Buckminster Fuller started the idea of the strait and created a project manifesto which is updated constantly, June 6, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, [[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/buckminster_fuller/criticalpath.shtml]], LSV</span>
The world energy network grid …development of new technologies." (Page 253)

**Wasteful development destroys biodiversity and causes massive dieoff**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CFBD, 12</span> (Center for Biological Diversity, “Overpopulation and Extinction,” Date is last modified, May 31, http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/campaigns/overpopulation/extinction/index.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We’re in the midst of the …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">threat level, but it is severe.</span>

**Biodiversity is key to check extinction**
**Watson 6** (Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17, http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The facts are clear. More…specter of massive human destruction.</span>

**Text: The United States federal government should offer Alaskan land grants for the completion of the Bering Strait tunnel within the maritime boundary of the United States.**
==<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>== 

**Land grants provide necessary access and guarantees for private investment.**
Craig <span class="Heading4Char">Burroughs </span>2/11/<span class="Heading4Char">10</span> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]], I.P.)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The big question in any …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">on their investment in the railroad’s bonds.</span>

**Direct federal involvement is key to access – outsourcing or delegating the plan will lock the US out**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Soloview, 12</span>
[Fyodor, Founder, Interbering.com, Interbering Breifing, 6-25-2012, [[http://www.interbering.com/]]]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Alaska will benefit from …Germany to end a war.</span>

**Relations occur between national governments, not private companies AND state actions aren’t perceived as national policy—undermines relations**
**DHOOGE 2000** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Lucien, Assistant Professor of Business Law, U of the Pacific, American Business Law Journal, Spring)</span>
The reaction of the United States … conflicts with our allies." 218


**US and Russia are key—other countries will get on board**
**RUSSIA & CIS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWSWIRE 2012**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Russian Railways chief believes tunnel can be built under Bering Strait,” April 9, lexis)</span>
A decision on building… is inevitable," he said.


**Shipping will pay for itself**
**BURROUGHS 2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>
Once an intercontinental rail link …very rapidly after its opening<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
=Negative= 

==Kritiks== 
===Pyschoanalysis=== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The affirmative is a psychological construct—their scenarios for conflict are products of paranoia that project our violent impulses onto the other </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mack 91</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">**–** Doctor of Psychiatry and a professor at Harvard University (John, “The Enemy System” http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/eJournal/article.asp?id=23 *Gender modified)</span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **threat of nuclear annihilation...** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">leadership, contribute powerfully to the process.</span>

**Their paranoid projections guarantee an endless cycle of wars**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hollander 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">**–** professor of Latin American history and women's studies at California State University (Nancy, "A Psychoanalytic Perspective on the Politics of Terror:In the Aftermath of 9/11" www.estadosgerais.org/mundial_rj/download/FLeitor_NHollander_ingl.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">In this sense, then, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">9-11 has</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">symbolically ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">mechanisms and stimulates paranoia. </span>

**Vote negative to interrogate cycles of enemy creation—this can create a fissure in dominant narratives that make war inevitable**
**Byles 3**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—English, U Cyprus (Joanna, Psychoanalysis and War: The Superego and Projective Identification, http://www.clas.ufl.edu/ipsa/journal/articles/art_byles01.shtml, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">It is here of course that </span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">language plays...</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">most importantly, </span><span class="Box">a way of thinking</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

===Security=== 
**The affirmative’s obsession with ranking and managing risk is the essence of security logic**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hagmann & Cavelty, 2012 </span>**(National risk registers: Security scientism and the propagation of permanent insecurity, John Hagmann and Myriam Dunn Cavelty, International Peace Research Institute, Oslo, Sage Journals Feb 15 2012)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">With the demise of...</span>and the adoption of risk logics.

**Infrastructural development is framed under a security logic**
Claudia **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Aradau</span>**, Department of War Studies King's College London,20**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>**[“Security that matters: critical infrastructure and objects of protection”, Security Dialogue vol. 42, no.5:491-514, http://oro.open.ac.uk/26408/1/Aradau_security_materiality_SD.pdf]MW
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The securitization of...entanglements with material discursive practices.</span>

**The impulse toward security justifies wars and oppression in the name of security**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 98</span>** (James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">No other concept in international relations...</span>____calcifying into a fearful sameness__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought.**
Mark **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous</span>**, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>** [//Critique of Security//, 185-6]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The only way out </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">of...</span>brave enough to return the gift."'


===Cap=== 

**Policies designed to reduce inequality legitimize structure inequalities rendered necessary and inevitable by the structural characteristics of market capitalism.**
Ruth **Levitas 2003** [University of Bristol, “The Idea of Social Inclusion”, http://socialpolicy.alberta.ca/files/documents/2003_social_inclusion_research_conference.pdf, RH]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Using utopia in the first, analytic...</span>__to be a transformative idea__.

**Public Transportation will be implemented to serve neoliberal interests and widen inequality**
**<span class="Author-Date">Farmer 11</span>**
Farmer Sociology Dep’t Roosevelt University 2011 Stephanie Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA Environment and Planning http://envplan.com/epa/fulltext/a43/a43409.pdf,KB
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Public transportation policy is one...</span>revanchist claims to the city (Smith, 1996).

**Neoliberalism creates multiple structural trends towards extinction**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">**Szentes 8** (Tamas, a Professor Emeritus at the Corvinus University of Budapest<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, “Globalisation and prospects of the world society”, 4/22 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.eadi.org/fileadmin/Documents/Events/exco/Glob.___prospects_-_jav..pdf|http://www.eadi.org/fileadmin/Documents/-Events/exco/Glob.___prospects_-_jav..pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">It’ s a common place...</span>changes in natural environment.

**Reject the affirmative as a means of refusing complicity with capitalism- Herod, 04**
(James, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/4thEd/4-index.htm]]</span>, Getting Free, 4th Edition, VR)
A sketch of an association of democratic, autonomous neighborhoods and how to create it, Fourth Edition, January 2004
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">It is time to try to describe...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">possibly even to extinction. </span>


==2NRS== 
===Bronx=== 
Round 1 vs Vasmir Rockets
T-vehicles
T-space

Round-3 vs national transportation infrastructure review board
T-transportation infrastructure i__nvestment__
cap k

Round 6 vs. Fix It infrastructure
Cap k

Octofinals vs. climate resiliency
T-maintenance

===Blue Key=== 
Round 1 vs. Alaskan Ports
T in
Elections DA (obama good russian relations)
States CP

Round 3 vs Port Dredging
Elections DA
Case (with heg bad)

Round 6 vs. Mississippi River delta aff
Elections DA
Case (with heg bad)

Quarterfinals vs Port Dredging
States CP
Spending DA

Finals vs Hydrogen fueling stations
Elections DA
Case

===MBA=== 
Round 1 vs LNG infrastructure aff
Psychoanalysis K

Round 3 vs guam
Security K

Round 5 vs Universal Design
"Universal Design" word pic
Debt Ceiling politics DA

===Crestian=== 
Round 1 vs Marine Transportation System
Hagel politics
case

Round 3 vs NIB
Hagel politics
case

Round 5 vs Nextgen
Hagel politics
case