==1AC Dam Removal Aff==


===Contention One: Inherency ===

====Over 430 dams have been dismantled in the last decade thanks to conservationists====
**MSNBC 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44554709/ns/us_news-environment/t/largest-dam-removal-aims-bring-salmon-back/~~%23.UAdWrjFWrnM, NBC, msnbc.com and news services, Largest dam removal aims to bring salmon back, ¶ 9/18/2011 2:26:17 AM ET)</span>
There has been an acceleration in dam removal in recent years in the United States.
AND
environmental harm caused by dams and questioning the safety of the impoundments, especially older ones.


====However, the federal government has chosen to maintain four major dams in the Snake River – despite the recommendation of an impartial judge====
William **Yardley**, writer for New York Times,** **4/26/**2012** (April 26, 2012, "Now Off Case, Judge Weighs In on Dams", [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/27/us/judge-says-snake-river-dams-should-go.html-http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/27/us/judge-says-snake-river-dams-should-go.html]])
SEATTLE — A federal judge who spent a decade presiding over one of the most
AND
judge can do. But you can raise hell, and I did."





===Contention Two: Snake River Ecosystems===

====The Snake River dams are killing sockeye salmon – it~’s a keystone species====
**Gray**, writer for Men~’s Journal,** **3/13/**2012** (Kevin, "Last Chance to Save the Salmon" Mens Journal, [[http://www.bluefish.org/lastsave.htm-http://www.bluefish.org/lastsave.htm]])
On the Lower Snake River — the Columbia River~’s largest tributary — four dams in
AND
author of Recovering a Lost River. "But it isn~’t. The culprit is these gargantuan dams."


====137 species rely on Snake River salmon for survival – including birds and land animals====
**S**ave **O**ur **W**ild **S**almon**, environmental advocacy group, **3/6/**2009** ("Why Restore Wild Salmon?", Save Our Wild Salmon,
[[http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html-http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html]])
Salmon and steelhead represent a critical ecological nutrient link between our oceans and our rivers
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> again feed the people and wildlife of the Pacific Northwest</span>.

Biodiversity loss outweighs all impacts
Tobin 90
(Richard Tobin, THE EXPENDABLE FUTURE, 1990, p. 22 )

Norman Meyers observes, no other form of environmental degradation "is anywhere so significant
AND
is the loss of genetic and species diversity by destruction of natural habitats. 



====Orca whales need the salmon – only removing the dams helps both species survive====
**Hawley**, environmental journalist,** 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steven, journalist, author of </span>Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, quotes Ken Balcomb, director for the Center for Whale Research on San Juan Island in Puget Sound, "The Idaho Tide," Summer, [[http://www.patagonia.com/us/patagonia.go?%26assetid=53761-http://www.patagonia.com/us/patagonia.go?%26assetid=53761]], LVS)</span>
The sin lies not in the wilderness, but in the dammed. Wild Idaho
AND
only way to take advantage of it is to tear out the dams."


====Puget Sound orcas are key to the global ocean ecosystem====
**National Wildlife Federation 06 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">("Orcas on the Edge," 10/1, http://www.nwf.org/News-and-Magazines/National-Wildlife/Animals/Archives/2006/Orcas-on-the-Edge.aspx)</span>
Saving Puget Sound orcas will require cleaning up toxic waste sites, stemming storm-
AND
marine ecosystem. And that ecosystem is two-thirds of our planet."

====Marine ecosystem collapse causes extinction of all species====
**Craig**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law,</span>** 2003** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robin Kundis, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155)</span>
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, just as they
AND
- even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.

====Biodiversity loss will cause extinction-this cycle is unique.====
Jerry Coyne, Professor of Ecology at University of Chicago and Hopi Hoekstra, Professor of Biology at Harvard, 9/24/~’7
([[http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatest-dying-http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatest-dying]])
Aside from the Great Dying, there have been four other mass extinctions, all
AND
just another Great Dying, but perhaps the greatest dying of them all.



====Biodiversity is approaching the tipping point, now is key====
**Terra Daily 6/11/12** (Staff writers, TerraDaily: News About Planet Earth, [[http://www.terradaily.com/reports/Study_predicts_imminent_irreversible_planetary_collapse_999.html-http://www.terradaily.com/reports/Study_predicts_imminent_irreversible_planetary_collapse_999.html]])
Using scientific theories, toy ecosystem modeling and paleontological evidence as a crystal ball,
AND
know them, could irreversibly collapse in the proverbial blink of an eye.


====Dams destroy ecosystems – river connectivity is key====
Higgs, JD, now an associate in the Perkins Cole Environment, Energy, and Resources Group, et al, 2002<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen Higgs, then a conservation assistant at American Rivers, and edited by Elizabeth Maclin and Margaret Bowman of </span>American Rivers <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and Angela Bednarek of the </span>University of Pennsylvania<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. February 2002."THE ECOLOGY OF DAM REMOVAL: A Summary of Benefits and Impacts", http://www.michigandnr.com/PUBLICATIONS/PDFS/fishing/dams/EcologyofDamRemoval.pdf)</span>
Ecological Consequences of Dams
A dam disrupts river connectivity and can block passage both up- and downstream for
AND
combined negative impact of dams on aquatic species can adversely impact¶ reproduction.







===Contention Three: Native Culture===


====The Klamath River Dam kills culture, the FERC should kill it.====
**McCovey 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Donald McCovey journalist and chairmen of the Resighini Rancheria tribal council, The Times-Standard, 07/11/2012 02:35:21 AM PDT, http://www.times-standard.com/guest_opinion/ci_21050463/time-different-direction-klamath-dam-removal)phol</span>

The Resighini Rancheria is a small federally recognized tribe with a reservation at the top
AND
for fish ladders that cost %24240 million will render the project uneconomic.



====FERC key to removing K river dam.====
**Hostler 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allie Hostler, Two Rivers Tribune, July 9, 2012, Siskiyou County Calls for FERC Action on Klamath Dams, Stalling Brings About Call to Actionhttp://www.tworiverstribune.com/2012/07/siskiyou-county-calls-for-ferc-action-on-klamath-dams/)phol</span>

Others disagree, like the Northwest Regional Director of the Pacific Coast Federation of
AND
. The meeting will be held on July 17, 2012 in Sacramento.




====Native Americans are currently the victims of cultural genocide.====
Rozzell 7<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rozzell, Kristin Lynn, Ph.D., The University of Texas at Arlington, 2007, Reinventing the self: Native American women~’s autobiographies, http://proquest.umi.com/pqdweb?RQT=305%26attempt=1%26skip=1%26SQ=STYPE(dissertation)+AND+ISBN(9780549319733)%26cfc=1)phol</span>

Native Americans do not have a champion as powerful as Spielberg, and their own
AND
a general apathy toward them is still a threat to native American cultures.


====Genocide is a process, not an event.====
**Rosenberg 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sheri P. Rosenberg, Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, New York, "Genocide Is a Process, Not an Event", Genocide Studies and Prevention, Volume 7, Number 1, Spring 2012http://muse.jhu.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/journals/genocide_studies_and_prevention/v007/7.1.rosenberg.html)phol</span>


Among the categories of inquiry, there has been a thread of scholarship explicitly dedicated
AND
aids in the interpretation of the UNCG~’s dual goals of prevention and punishment.


====Cultural diversity is vital for human survival====
Barsh 93 – (Russel Lawrence,<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Professor of Native American Studies at the University of Lethbridge, University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform, Winter, </span>1993<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 25 U. MICH. J. L. REF. 671)</span>




There no longer seems to be much difference in the Westernization of the Third World
AND
so. There is no alternative for Indian survival or for global survival.


— More evidence – Voting negative means the judge is ethically complicit in genocide. The role of the ballot should be to prevent the genocide of Native America.

Vetleson, 2k
(Arne Johan, Department of Philosophy University of Oslo, , "Genocide: A Case for the Responsibility of the Bystander", Journal of Peace Research, July, p. 520-522)
Outrage at what comes to pass may prompt the judgement that ~’this simply must
AND
being traced in any definite manner, to any final and definitive endpoint.



===Plan===


====The United States Federal Government should create waterways by removing the Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental, Little Goose, Klamath and Lower Granite dams.====



===Contention Four: Solvency===

====Federal Government must pay do and fund the project====
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Betsy </span>Otto 2000<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Former Vice Prsident 1999-2011of American Rivers Program, October 2000, "Paying for Dam Removal: A Guide to Selected Funding Sources," American Rivers, http://www.michigandnr.com/publications/pdfs/Fishing/dams/Paying-Dam-Removal.pdf</span>
Specific Federal Congressional Appropriations ¶ A number of federal agencies can be authorized by Congress
AND
of Engineers to remove the Embrey Dam on the Rappahannock River in Virginia.

===Contention Five: No War===

====Prefer our data – empirics disprove the vast majority of war and escalation claims====
Goldstein, professor emeritus of international relations at American University, and Pinker, psychology professor at Harvard, 2011 ~~[Joshua S. Goldstein and Steven Pinker. "War is really going out of style." The New York Times. December 18, 2011. Lexis.~~] AP
THE departure of the last American troops from Iraq brings relief to a nation that
AND
Neither North nor South Korea could win a war at an acceptable cost.


====The media exaggerates violence – war is on the decline====
Goldstein 2011 ~~[Joshua Goldstein, professor emeritus of international relations at American University. "Think again: war." Foreign Policy. Sept/Oct 2011. [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/think_again_war?page=full-http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/think_again_war?page=full]]~~] AP
If the world feels like a more violent place than it actually is, that~’s
AND
our behavior can sink, not of how high our standards have risen."

====Major war won’t happen====

a.) Nuclear weapons, and economics


Deudney et al 9
<span style="background-color: white;">professor of political science at John Hopkins (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs,http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)</span>

This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing
AND
international system is far more primed for peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.



====International conflict is obsolete - the costs far outweigh any benefits====
Mandelbaum, Christian A. Herter Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy program at Johns Hopkins University, 1999 ~~[Michael Mandelbaum. "Is Major War Obsolete?" Great Debate Series. February 25, 1999. [[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/-http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]]~~]
My argument says, tacitly, that while this point of view, which was
AND
in the ascendant, our own, liberalism, tends to be pacific.



====Their framing of a global nuclear war that ends in extinction delocalizes nuclear war and ignores the more significant problem of systemic violence====
Kato, Professor of Political Science at the University of Hawaii, 1993
(Masahide "Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze," Alternatives: Global, Local, Political. Page 347, MAG)
Nuclear criticism finds the likelihood of "extinction" as the most fundamental aspcct of
AND
subjectivity per se but to psychological defenses against the overwhelming possibility of extinction.