[[toc]]
= = 


=Round 2= 
Neg v. Pace Es
2NR: Neo-lib K and case

1NC T
**Interpretation and violation— the aff must be a net increase in development and/or exploration of space beyond Earth’s mesosphere**

**Beyond means farther than**
**Merriam Webster****No Date** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/beyond?show=0&t=1308684144)</span>
__Definition of BEYOND__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">1 </span>__: on or … to the farther side : farther__

**The mesosphere is at an altitude of 50 to 80km**
**EPA 10****–**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Environmental protection agency (2010, “Atmosphere”, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.epa.gov/apti/course422/ap1.html</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The first layer is … make up the upper atmosphere. </span>

**Violation - They A good part of the space elevator tech is below the mesosphere.**

**Vote negative—**

**Limits–they allow all robotic missions and satellites and ground-based affirmatives—anything tangentially related to the topic is topical under their interp**

**Negative ground–random space telescopes are impossible to get disad links to—setting humans as the standard creates a stable plan mechanism and provides equitable division of ground**

**They’re extra-tea—reason to reject the team—doesn’t affirm the resolution and gives the aff unpredictable advantage ground**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Swilley ‘11</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Scott, Major, US Army, School of Advanced Military Studies United States Army Command and General Staff College Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, “Space Power: A Theory for Sustaining US Security Through the Information Age”, 2011, http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada545154.pdf, AM)</span>

__Space situational awareness is defined …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, we put ourselves at a disadvantage.”</span>
1NC K

**Framing First---We must discursively contest the aff’s discourse of outer space as a site for neoliberal governance---only contestation prior to space development retains the conditions for imaginative transformation**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lupro ‘9</span>
(Michael, teaches in University … __the Age of Space Tourism__)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Space is not the final … </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">an appropriate place to start.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The aff acts to enclose space within the market – asteroids, orbital position, and even the sun itself are transformed into commodities while agency is re-figured into the disciplinary framework of economic competition – ensures a war of all against all</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">DeAngelis, ‘4 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Massimo DeAngelis, Reader in economics at the University of East London, Opposing fetishism by reclaiming our powers: The Social Forum movement, capitalist markets and the politics of alternatives, International Social Science Journal, 11/8/2004, Volume 56, Issue 182, Pages 591-604, http://www.thecornerhouse.org.uk/document/refinves.html] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There is not the space … pits livelihoods against each other.</span>

Globalization makes extinction inevitable- social and environmental factors build positive feedbacks create a cascade of destruction - only massive social reorganization of society can produce sustainable change and save the planet
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ehrenfeld ‘5, </span>
(David, Dept. of Ecology, Evolution, and Natural Resources @ Rutgers University, “The Environmental Limits to Globalization”, //Conservation Biology// Vol. 19 No. 2 April 2005)
The known effects of globalization … the global environment we share.
**Also turns the environment and causes structural violence.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Giroux ‘6</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, (Henry A. Giroux currently holds the Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in Canada. “Dirty Democracy and State Terrorism: The Politics of the New Authoritarianism in the United States,” Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East 26.2 (2006) 163-177.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While it would be ludicrous … children to leave their homes.16 </span>

**The alternative is to vote negative to contest the neo-liberal subjectivity of the affirmative.**
Competitiveness makes environmental and economic collapse and resource wars inevitable
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bristow ‘10</span>
(School of City & Regional Planning, Cardiff University) (Gillian, Resilient regions: re-‘place’ing regional competitiveness, Cambridge Journal of Regions, Economy and Society 2010, 3, 153–167)

In recent years, regional development … example Jackson, 2009; New Economics Foundation, 2008).
Competitiveness causes trade wars and protectionism- turns their offense
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Krugman ‘94, </span>
PhD (Paul, Nobel Prize winning Economist, Professor of Economics and International Affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University, Centenary Professor at the London School of Economics, and an op-ed columnist for The New York Times) March/April Foreign Affairs “Competitiveness: A Dangerous Obsession” l/n
A much more serious risk … will destroy the U.S. manufacturing base.



**Inevitable and no impact**
**Ross and Zittel 7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Martin N. Ross and Paul F. Zittel, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer”, 5/16/07, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, accessed 9.1.11, SWOLFF) </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Space transportation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, once dominated by … affect it in the future. </span></span>

**International regulations solve**
**NOAA No Date**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(NOAA, “The Ozone Layer” info page, Accessed 7/19/2011; </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.oar.noaa.gov/climate/t_ozonelayer.html</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; accessed 9.1.11, SWOLFF)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ozone-Depleting Substances Certain</span> __industrial …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to predict future ozone changes.</span></span>

**This nitric acid stuff is a joke – their author is a blog post writen by a person younger than I am named porkylee proves that their epistomology is based on using whatever means to enhance neoliberal control and disproves their impacts.**

**Don’t solve industrial workers and lab workers who sell nitric acid all over the world – rapid industrialization makes the impact more likely**
**Science ray your author 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (5/19/11, </span>[[http://scienceray.com/biology/ecology/about-nitric-acid/#ixzz1QJmsahzP|__…__ ]]<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) AS</span>

**__Nitric acid causes 7 percent of …__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, throat, esophagus and gastrointestinal tract. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Turns case – rapid industrialization allows for mechanized farm production which increases the use of Nitric Acid** </span>
<span class="Underline">**NESCA no date –** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">National Earth … )AS</span>

<span class="Underline">**People use nitric acid for …** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">glass and metal, including jewelry. </span>

**Neoliberal politics kills net more bio-diversity than the squo – alt solves**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cardillo, 6 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Dr. Marcel Cadillo Proffesor in the Biology Divison at Imperial College London (2006, Dr. Marcel Cadillo, “Disapearing Forests and Biodiversity Loss: Which areas should we protect?” International Forestry Review, Vol. 8, pp. 251-255 CS) </span>

<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.6667px;">Using this method it has … species appear particularly extinction-prone.</span>


<span class="Underline">**Growth is unsustainable because of physics, tech doesn’t solve and collapse is the only way to solve** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gilding 12** (Paul, international thought leader and advocate for sustainability, served as head of Greenpeace International, and is currently a faculty member for Cambridge University's Programme for Sustainability Leadership, February 2012 TED Talks,“The Earth is full” [[http://www.ted.com/talks/paul_gilding_the_earth_is_full.html]] )HDG *edited for ableist language </span>


<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Let me begin with four … </span><span class="Underline">need to get ready for.</span>

**Collapse is good—**

**Prevents extinction from environmental destruction**
**Speth ‘8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (James Gustave, Served as President Jimmy Carter’s White House environmental adviser and as head of the United Nations’ largest agency for international development Prof at Vermont law school. Former dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University . Former Professor of Law at Georgetown University Law Center, teaching environmental and constitutional law. .Former Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality in the Executive Office of the President. Co-founder of the Natural Resources Defense Council. Was law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Hugo L. Black JD, Yale. The Bridge at the Edge of the World: Capitalism, the Environment, and Crossing from Crisis to Sustainability, Gigapedia, 6-9) </span>
__But the much larger and …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">identify the transformative changes needed. </span>
<span class="Underline">**Prevents runaway warming which causes extinction.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Li 10,**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Dr. Minqi, Assistant Professor Department of Economics, University of Utah, “The 21st Century Crisis: Climate Catastrophe or Socialism” Paper prepared for the David Gordon Memorial Lecture at URPE Summer Conference 2010 JH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The global average surface temperature … </span><span class="Underline">and society-wide planning </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Section 6).</span>
<span class="Underline">**Growth is unsustainable and will cause agricultural collapse, nuclear war and environmental destruction culminating in extinction–only economic collapse causes cultural shift that solves.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Djordjevic ’98**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Johnny, BA Global Economics, Paper in Global Sustainability at UC, Irvine. “Sustainability,” Senior Seminar for Instructor: Peter A. Bowler, [[http://www.dbc.uci.edu/%7Esustain/global/sensem/djordj98.html|http://www.dbc.uci.edu/~sustain/global/sensem/djordj98.html]], AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Max Weber believed in the … will cease to support life. </span>

<span class="Underline">**No risk … of offense—decline prevents war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Deudney ’91**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Daniel, Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Princeton. “Environment and Security: Muddled Thinking,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists 47.3, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Poverty Wars. In a second scenario, … </span><span class="Underline">industrial products and </span>surplus wealth<span style="text-decoration: none;">.</span>

====<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC/1NR </span>==== 
2NC Impact Calc
**K outweighs—market logic causes collapse of the environment in the name of the profit motive—sustainability is rejected in the name of a subjectivity that leaves people only responsible for themselves—**

**Competition turns the aff—krugman and Krowley—undermines coop and causes protectionism—**

**Structural violence is the proximate cause of all war- creates priming that psychologically structures escalation**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois ‘4</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn) (Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This large and at first … ; and reversed feelings of victimization).</span>


**Turns case—**
**If true that there’s only … fuel—that turns the advantage.**
**If they just decrease launch costs in general, then that’s an incentive to continue rockets—turns the first advantage.**

2NC Framework
**The judge is a scholar in the space policy community who should use the ballot to challenge neo-liberal subjectivity—**

**The aff’s reduction of public policy to neoliberal governmentality partitions reality, creating a divide between “haves” and “have-nots” that structures institutional reality – that’s a DA to both the aff and their FW and it’s zero-sum which means the perm doesn’t solve**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gunder & Hillier ‘9 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Michael, Senior planning … </span>__Entanglement with Spatial Planning__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, pgs. 111-112)</span>

<span class="underline0">The hegemonic network</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, or bloc, … an impossibility (Gunder 2003a, 2003b).</span>
**Partioning of reality causes extinction–creates a background of violence that drives conflict and causes environmental collapse**
**Szentes ‘8** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Tamás Szentes, a Professor Emeritus at the Corvinus University of Budapest. “Globalisation and prospects of the world society” 4/22/08 http://www.eadi.org/fileadmin/Documents/Events/exco/Glob.___prospects_-_jav..pdf__</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It’ s a common place that human … </span>for the **final, last catastrophe****<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>**__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">One cannot doubt, of course, … irreversible changes in natural environment.</span>__


__2NC AT Saves the environment__
__**Prefer our impacts- the social consequences of globalization are unpredictable, but neoliberal destruction of the environment is certain and causes extinction**__
__<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ehrenfeld ‘5, </span>__
__(David, Dept. of Ecology, Evolution, and Natural Resources @ Rutgers University, “The Environmental Limits to Globalization”, //Conservation Biology// Vol. 19 No. 2 April 2005)__
__The social changes wrought by … hostile to its own survival<span class="underline0">.</span>__

__2NC Conditionality Good__
__**Conditionality good—**__

__**Key to neg flex and ground**—**multiple advocacies are the only way to test the affirmative from multiple angles and check aff topic bias—aff has unlimited ground this year—new affs are uniquely bad—need flexibility to get back to ground zero—turns clash**__

__**Key to assessment skills—forces the aff to assess the debate as it occurs—unique educational aspect of debate—portable skill—outweighs**__


__**Counter-interp—[ ]—yes it’s arbitrary but it’s a finite cap on abuse**__

__**2NR checks—we’ll only go for one**__


__2nc Alternative Overview__

__**The alternative is to contest the discursive construction of space as a site for neoliberal governance – the current lack of space development means that it remains open to contestation and imaginative transformation, because there are no strong institutional or material structures to block discursive shifts – that’s Lupro**__
__**The alt allows the construction of space as a social commons shared by humanity – this transforms the tropes we use away from risk, individual responsibility, and growth and towards ecology, collective responsibility, and social safety nets as important organizing principles for society**__
__**Sequencing is a DA to the … alone can solve the links**__

__**The space of this debate is key – your ballot creates a pedagogical shift away from individualized, neoliberal education towards planetary consciousness and interconnection – you should prioritize questions of education because they most immediately impact our social location**__
__<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nixon ‘11</span>__
__(Rob, Rachel Carson Professor …__ Environmentalism of the Poor__, pgs. 14-16)__
__How do we bring home-… interest to the corporate media.__


__**They can’t win any sustainability offense – sustainable growth is ironically unsustainable and causes extinction – the alternative transitions to sustainable de-growth which resolves the impacts and produces social justice**__
__<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Martinez-Alier et al ‘9</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Joan Martínez-Alier, a Department of Economics and Economic History, Universidad Autonoma de Barcelona, Spain, Unai Pascual b, b Department of Land Economy, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom, Franck-Dominique Vivien, c Department of Economics, Université de Reims Champagne Ardenne, France, Edwin Zaccai d, d Institute for Environmental Management & Land Planning, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium, “Sustainable de-growth: Mapping the context, criticisms and future prospects of an emergent paradigm”, //Ecological Economics// 69 (2010) 1741–1747)</span>__
__//The dominant economic paradigm rewards …// <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">interdependent and affect each other.</span>__

__2NC AT Pinker__
__**Neoliberal metrics are**__ **//intended// __to … economic privilege and everyday oppression__**
__<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Saunders ‘3</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Rebecca, Associate Prof. of English @ Illinois State Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, Vol. XXI Nos. 1 & 2 (2001), muse)</span>__

__<span class="Underline">"Effacing the distinction between … they disembarked from the plane.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...66 </span>__

__2NC AT Human Nature__
__**Human nature can be changed—it’s not set in advance and pedagogical transformation in this debate can change economic preference formation**__
__<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Schor ’10 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Julie, Prof. of Economics @ … </span>__Economics of True Wealth__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, pgs. 11-12)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">And we don't have to. What's … both. That’s what plenitude offers.</span>__


__2NC AT Water Privatization__
__**Causes water wars**__
__**Barlow, ‘1**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Maude, Chairs the Council of Canadians and was the founding co-chair of Action Canada Network Blue Gold, http:ll[[http://www.wellnessgoods.com/bluegold.asp]|www.wellnessgoods.com/bluegold.asp]]]</span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Proponents say that such a system … </span>of the world water crisis<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>
__1NR O/V__
__**Growth is collapsing now and the affirmative tries to increase it by creating a deregulated market of competitiveness in space – Growth causes nuclear war, warming, and biodiversity loss which all cause extinction and are external impacts from the aff.**__

__**They do not access a majority of their offense on the flow especially their transition war offense because the alternative is a peaceful transition by observing the way we go to space and viewing humanity as a pre-requisite to profit gain.**__

__**Collapses the environment—lack of … because carrying capacity is destroyed—**__

__**Global warming—continued economic growth exponentially increases carbon emissions which causes run-away warming and extinction—that’s Li –warming is the only existential risk**__
__**NYET ‘6**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Non-partisan, non-religious, non-ideological, free news filter, The Extinction Scale - October 16)</span>__
We rate Global Climate Change … __<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to incorporate the dangers here. </span>__


__<span class="Underline">**We only have a few decades until we hit the tipping point**</span>__
__<span class="Underline">**Powers ’11**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (William is a senior fellow at the World Policy Institute. He has worked for more than a decade in development aid and conservation in Latin America, Africa, and Washington.) World Policy Journal, "Finding Enough: Confessions of a secular missionary," Project Muse, AM)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Consider this radical notion:</span><span class="Underline"> the … very **survival of our species.**</span>__
__**Turns their other impacts—Environmental … scraps of civilization—that’s <span class="Underline">Djordjevic</span>**__

__<span class="Underline">**That turns soft power – people perceive the US as taking over the economy which takes out our diplomtic capitol. Also timeframe outweighs.** </span>__


__**Even if they win that some parts of growth are good, diminishing returns and the bad parts outweigh. Collapsing now is key**__
__**Speth 6/1** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– professor at Vermont Law School and a Distinguished Senior Fellow at Demos</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(James, “Creating A New Vision Of Economic Growth,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.countercurrents.org/speth010611.htm]]</span>)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Let’s first take up the … hostage to the growth imperative</span>__



__2NC AT Tech solves__

__**<span style="color: #000000;">Doesn’t solve—it’s a question of </span>**__**… __can’t__ stop them__—that’s Trainer__**
__<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">We control uniqueness—</span>**</span>__

__<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Our impact is faster than the technical curve</span>**</span>__
__<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Powers ’11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> (William is a senior fellow at the World Policy Institute. He has worked for more than a decade in development aid and conservation in Latin America, Africa, and Washington.) World Policy Journal, "Finding Enough: Confessions of a secular missionary," Project Muse, AM)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Consider this radical notion:</span><span class="Underline"> the … </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">very survival of our species.</span>__

__**Innovation is already slowing down**__
__**Bardi ’11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Ugo, professor of Physical Chemistry at the University of Florence in Italy, The Limits to Growth Revisited pg 79, dml)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There is evidence that </span>__technological … progress of science and technology.

__2NC AT Chinese growth good__
__**Asian economic growth destroys ecosystems and is one of the biggest contributors to global warming**__
__**Manila 09**-<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(writing about a speech by Haruhiko Kuroda, President of the Asian Development Bank), [Space Daily, “Asia’s Economic Growth ‘Boldest Climate Change,’ AD,” 7/7/09, http://www.spacedaily.com/2006/090616061106.c4k3t4t7.html]</span>__

Asia's rapid economic growth in … __<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">environmentally sustainable technologies," he said.</span>__

__**China growth causes nuclear war**__
__**Zakaria 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Fareed Zakaria is editor of Newsweek International, overseeing all Newsweek's editions abroad. He writes a regular column for Newsweek, which also appears in Newsweek International and often The Washington Post. 12-1</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://newsweek.washingtonpost.com/postglobal/fareed_zakaria/2008/12/wanted_a_new_grand_strategy_1.html</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Some have seized on the … </span>__attacks, secessionist outbreaks, nuclear brinksmanship.

__**China growth causes war with the US**__
__**Mearshimer 5** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(John, prof of IR and pol sci @ U of Chicago “Clash of the Titans,” Foreign Policy, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.ou.edu/uschina/texts/BrzezinskiMearsheimer2005ClashTitans.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> RQM)</span>__

China cannot rise peacefully__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and … </span>__States **to contain China’s power.**

__**No CCP good offense—growth causes rebellion**__
__**Yao 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">( Yang, is an Adjunct Professor of East Asian Studies B.S. of Geography, Beijing University, 1986 M.S. of Economics, Beijing University, 1989 Ph.D “The End of the Beijing Consensus” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/65947/the-end-of-the-beijing-consensus?page=show</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> //RQM)</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">More important, </span>__Beijing's ongoing efforts … consent to its absolute rule.__

=Round 3= 
Aff v. Roland Hall
Same as Rd. 1 
2NR was eco-psychology.
=Round 4= 
Neg v. UC-Lab
1NC: T-staffed, K, case D

2NC: K
1NR: Case

2NR: Case 
=Round 5= 
neg v. Kinkaid

1NC:
T-staffed
Death Cult
Strategic Gaze
Case

2NC 
Strategic Gaze

1NR
Growth/Tech doesn't solve warming

2NR
K
=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]