[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 18pt;">Plan Text</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 18pt;">Contention 1 is Transit Apartheid</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Status Quo infrastructure investment focuses solely on profit maximization – current neoliberal practices make social exclusion inevitable.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Farmer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Public transportation, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">as one crucial … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Wogan 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, <span style="color: #0000f6;">[[http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/]]</span>, AJ</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Obama said … . We rate this a Promise Broken. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">A lack of infrastructure severely damages low-income minority communities – the neoliberal city makes combating resource disparities impossible and masks militarism.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Grengs 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical … depend most on good transit</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Transportation apartheid also makes environmental justice unachievable – a focus on combating funding disparities couples environmental justice with race-based politics.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Hoang 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">, and tribal programs and policies</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">.”28 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation – this allows for a more effective engagement with the political sphere.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Chen 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">For generations, coming to the … tough on the slow bus.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">That’s necessary for environmental justice – the alternative is collapse of civilization</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Collin & Collin 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Antiurban attitudes, covert and institutionalized … of exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">We have an obligation to end this exclusion – it causes the worst forms of state-based violence</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Duarte 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. <span style="color: #0000f6;">[[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a … </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">vital interests of animal laborans.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Hoang 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">This report is an evaluation … increase of more than $255 million.131 </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 18pt;">Contention 2 is Impact Assessment</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Purely conjoining together link claims only makes predictions less likely and misdirects resources – policy analysis suffers from conjunctive fallacy that relies on a flawed methodology</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Berube, 2k</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">. (David M Berube, PhD, and Associate Professor of Speech Communication and Director of Debate at the Univ of South Carolina. “Debunking Mini-Max Reasoning: The Limits of Extended Causal Chains in Contest Debating” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate. 21(2000). Online PDF.) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">What was a knotty piece of … </span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">begs the question of equivocation</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Previously note, predictions fail</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Tetlock & Gardner 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;"> [Philip Tetlock is a professor of organizational behavior at the Haas Business School at the University of California-Berkeley, AND Dan Gardner is a columnist and senior writer for the Ottawa Citizen and the author of The Science of Fear, received numerous awards for his writing, including the Michener Award, M.A. History from York, "OVERCOMING OUR AVERSION TO ACKNOWLEDGING OUR IGNORANCE" July 11 <span style="color: #0000f6;">[[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/11/dan-gardner-and-philip-tetlock/overcoming-our-aversion-to-acknowledging-our-ignorance/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/11/dan-gardner-and-philip-tetlock/overcoming-our-aversion-to-acknowledging-our-ignorance/]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Each December, The Economist forecasts the coming year in a special issue called The World in Whatever-The-Next-Year-Is. It’s avidly read around the world. But then, like most forecasts, it’s forgotten.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">The editors may regret that … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">predicted more of the same.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Structural Violence outweighs</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Hintjens 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better,” <span style="color: #0000f6;">[[http://udb.global-connections.nl/sites/udb.global-connections.nl/files/file/2923317.051%20-%20Position%20Paper%20Helen%20Hintjens.pdf]]</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian … </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">neither natural nor inevitable</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">”, p. 301 (Prontzos). </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Focus on structural conditions first---conflict becomes inevitable otherwise</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Sandy & Perkins 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;"> Leo R. veteran of the U.S. Navy and an active member of Veterans for Peace, Inc., co-founder of Peace Studies at Plymouth State College, Ray; Teaches philosophy at Plymouth State College, The Nature of Peace and Its Implications for Peace Education”, Online journal of peace and conflict resolution, Issue 4.2, Spring 02, <span style="color: #0000f6;">[[http://www.trinstitute.org/ojpcr/4_2natp.htm]]</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">The peace process additionally must … </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">to fester and erupt later</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Current predictions are narcissist – only by engaging in the politics of social exclusion and emancipatory transportation planning can we rectify the planning process</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Talvitie 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. <span style="color: #0000f6;">[[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]]</span> BJM</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Prediction is …</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;"> are being challenged. </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Existential risk methodology authorizes Scholars to Jam Together Decontextualized Predictions Which makes calculation impossible</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Kessler, 2k8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">. (Oliver Kessler, Prof Sociology @ Univ of Bielefield. “From Insecurity to Uncertainty: Risk and the Paradox of Security Politics” Alternatives. 33(2008).) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">The problem of the second … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">be assessed with relative certainty.</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]