= = 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>




=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contacts</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff/Neg: </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">datrueharmony@gmail.com</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">alexlee781@gmail.com</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmatives</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zizek Affirmative</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Contention 1 is the Pedagogy of the Oppressed]]Contention 1 is the Pedagogy of the Oppressed</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We begin with the introduction to our affirmative from</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Grengs ’04 – Associate Professor of Urban … _Social_Goals_of_Public_Transit.pdfJC)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Imagine a … (del Barco, 1997, p. 1)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The drive for capitalist gain has seen a shift in the goal of transit, from assisting those who can’t afford cars, to helping to promote white sprawl and segregate urban communities- root cause of racism </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Grengs ’04 – Associate Professor of Urban … _Social_Goals_of_Public_Transit.pdfJC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hidden behind the surge of …public purpose of mass transit.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capitalism is applying its stranglehold to public transportation, that worsens inequality, devalues lives and creates continuous war</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Grengs ’04 – Associate Professor of Urban … _Social_Goals_of_Public_Transit.pdfJC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In an emerging world …most on good transit.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This creates “waste” of the system, filled with an urban underclass – The system uses racism and classism to legitimize its failures</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wilson 10 (Carter, professor of political … the United States, Google Scholars) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the final analysis, several … richer analysis of contemporary racism.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, Capitalism builds transportation systems that promote consumerism, thus causing massive environmental catastrophe – We must advocate a mass expansion of public transit</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Townsend Managing Editor 2008 (Terry, managing … Social Solutions to Global Warming)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have to convince millions …is inherently incapable of doing. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These excluding and homogenizing practices prevent coalition and organization of the masses and causes extinction – We must allow the spector of Communism to reemerge</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zizek 09</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Slavoj, Professor of Sociology at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana University, “Censorship Today: Violence, or Ecology as a New Opium for the Masses”[[http://schwarzemilch.files.wordpress.com/2009/02/censorship-today.pdf]]HH)jc</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Last but not least, new … the hypothesis to deploy itself.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The communism we speak of is not an ideal, but a movement that reacts to contradictions in the capitalist system – This vision of communism is thwarted by a perceived lack of revolutionary subject</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Žižek 09--Slavoj Žižek is a researcher … -how-to-begin-from-the-beginning)JC</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So where are we today, … communist hypothesis, against all odds?</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation infrastructure is the bastion of global capitalism’s abuses – it creates zones of inclusion and exclusion – Only by accepting the mantel of the revolutionary subject and the excluded can we engage in universalized antagonism where we can recapture value to life and stave off human extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Žižek 09--Slavoj Žižek is a researcher … so is to act preventively.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We must engage the state as planners – Using a universalized particular demand to provide transportation for urban populations acts as a counter-methodology to that of neoliberal planning</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Grengs ’04 – Associate Professor of Urban … potential of meaningful citizen participation. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Resisting capitalism’s reliance on economic evaluation is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Žižek and Daly, 04– *Slavoj … .lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm)MP</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For Zizek it is imperative … " in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative represents an ethical shift that embraces contingency in the face of certainty – This represents a dramatic shift from existing, unquestioned institutions</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Žižek and Daly 2004(Slavoj, professor … , Northampton, Conversations with Zizek, page 18-19)MP</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For Zizek, a confrontation with the … us to risk the impossible.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#ADVOCACY STATEMENT]]ADVOCACY STATEMENT</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus We demand in the face of neoliberalism that:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government will increase mass transit for urban areas.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Contention 2 is the Real]]Contention 2 is the Real</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. The psyche is important, don’t let them disregard it – it forms our actions and understanding of the world</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jung 6 (Carl G., renowned scholar of … , New American Library, New York, 81-85, AM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Separation from his instinctual nature … and can happen to everyone.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B) Psychoanalytic discourse comes first in the context of transportation policy </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gunder 5</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Michael Gunder, Senior planning lecturer in the School of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Architecture|Architecture]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planning|Planning]] at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Auckland|University of Auckland]], previous president of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Zealand_Planning_Institute|New Zealand Planning Institute]] 2005, “Lacan, Planning and Urban Policy Formation”, Urban Policy and Research, [[http://dl2af5jf3e.scholar.serialssolutions.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/?sid=google&aulast=Michael+Gunder+Senior+Lecturer&atitle=Lacan,+planning+and+urban+policy+formation&id=doi:10.1080/0811114042000335287&title=Urban+policy+and+research&volume=23&issue=1&date=2005&spage=87&issn=0811-1146]]) ZA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The theoretical and practical understanding … societal defiance, revolt and change.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C)Absolute knowledge, even through science, is a myth. It is part of an ancient desire to be in total control of the world. Lacanian politics asks us to accept this impossibility.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stavrakakis 99 (Yannis, Visiting Professor, Department … the Political//, “Encircling the Political”,p.88-90)MH</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In this regard, Lacan is … that no certainty can match.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">D) Peer reviewed research in political science, sociology, and psychology proves that psychoanalysis does apply to collectives like the state—their accusations are biased by a cognitive disposition to disavow the instability of our psyches</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Kaplowitz 90(Noel, is a research associate at the Institute of Governmental Affairs, University of California at Davis in International Relations National Self-Images, Perception of Enemies, and Conflict Strategies: Psychopolitical Dimensions of International Relations Political Psychology Vol. 11, No. 1 (Mar., 1990), pp. 39-82 JSTOR )</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">How a People Sees Itself...resisted in the social sciences.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Guam Affirmative</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#affirmative-1ac guam roads-deterrence]]Contention 1 is Deterrence</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 1 is East Asia</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conflict is emerging in the South Sea as China expands its military – escalating tensions and competing resource claims make miscalculation likely</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Westhead 7/14</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Rick Westhead, writer for Foreign Affairs, staff writer/South Asia Bureau Chief for the Toronto Star, The Star, 7/14/12, “Battle for the Pacific: Naval arms race in the China Sea”, [[http://www.thestar.com/news/world/article/1225396--battle-for-the-pacific-naval-arms-race-in-the-china-sea]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A 21st-century Great Game is unfolding … as well as its first aircraft carrier.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Realignment to Guam solves hostilities – geography ensures effective de-escalation and robust deterrence</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kamiya 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Matake Kamiya, is Professor of International Relations at the National Defense Academy of Japan. He was a main author of the report Strategic Implications of an Ongoing Buildup of the US Bases in Guam for Japan, which the Research Institute for Peace and Security published in 2007, ASIANZ Online, 6/20/12, “The Relocation of US Marines from Okinawa to Guam: Strategic Implications for Japan”,[[http://www.asianz.org.nz/our-work/track-2/opinions-essays/matake-kamiya]] | AK)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Since the announcement of the Roadmap, … of the alliance with the United States.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Guam is the linchpin of deterrence in the Asia-Pacific – proximity to hotspots ensures rapid response and deters Chinese expansionism</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Caryl 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Christian Caryl, is a senior fellow at the Legatum Institute, a contributing editor at Foreign Policy, and a senior fellow at the MIT Center for International Studies, The Daily Beast, 2/25/07, “America's Unsinkable Fleet”,[[http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2007/02/25/america-s-unsinkable-fleet.html]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For an out-of-the-way spit of land … to get used to being in the headlines.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Specifically, realignment to Guam is vital to prevent conflict over the South China Sea</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Freedberg 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Sydney J. Freedberg, national security expert, frequent contributor to the National Journal, founder of Learning From Veterans, AOL Defense, 7/27/12, “Pentagon, Congress Must Break 'Logjam' Over Japan, Guam Bases: CSIS”,[[http://defense.aol.com/2012/07/27/pentagon-congress-must-break-logjam-over-japan-guam-bases-c]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"These plans are at the center … Guam would not be "operationally viable."</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Territorial disputes snowball into nuclear conflict</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chakraborty 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Tuhin Subhro Chakraborty, Research Associate at Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Contemporary Studies (RGICS), his primary area of work is centered on East Asia and International Relations. His recent work includes finding an alternative to the existing security dilemma in East Asia and the Pacific and Geo Political implications of the ‘Rise of China’. Prior to joining RGICS, he was associated with the Centre for Strategic Studies and Simulation, United Service Institution of India (USI) where he examined the role of India in securing Asia Pacific. He has coordinated conferences and workshops on United Nation Peacekeeping Visions and on China’s Quest for Global Dominance. He has written commentaries on issues relating to ASEAN, Asia Pacific Security Dilemma and US China relations. He also contributed in carrying out simulation exercise on the ‘Afghanistan Scenario’ for the Foreign Service Institute (FSI). Tuhin interned at the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA), Sapru House, wherein he worked on the Rise of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) military budget and its impact on India. He graduated from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi and thereafter he undertook his masters in East Asian Studies from University of Delhi. His areas of interest include China, India-Japan bilateral relations, ASEAN, Asia Pacific security dynamics and Nuclear Issues, The United States Service Institution of India, 2010, “The Initiation & Outlook of ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus Eight”,[[http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The first ASEAN Defence Ministers … turning into a nuclear conflict.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nationalism and resource competition make it an existential theater of conflict – short-circuits their rationality warrants</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gosnell and Orzetti 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Rachael Gosnell, Lieutenant Commander, U.S. Navy, former Combat Systems Officer at U.S. Navy AND</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Michael Orzetti, Second Lieutenant, U.S. Marine Corps, Master’s Candidate at Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service and a 2011 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, Proceedings Magazine—U.S. Naval Institute, April 2012, Vol. 138/4/1310, “Now Hear This – Is Great-Power War Still Possible?”,[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2012-04/now-hear-great-power-war-still-possible]] | AK)</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Center for Naval Analyses recently … out. U.S. policymakers must plan accordingly.</span>**





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 2 is Korea</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Korean war’s inevitable and will go nuclear</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IBT 10-6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, International Business Times, “Reports Say South Korea, US Revise Defense Agreement; North Korean Media Call For ‘Great War’”, [[http://www.ibtimes.com/reports-say-south-korea-us-revise-defense-agreement-north-korean-media-call-great-war-842375]]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">North Korea’s state-run news agency published … for a chance to implement them.”</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">North Korea will attack Guam with IRBMs absent hardening</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shirley A.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Kan 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Specialist in Asian Security Affairs, Congressional Research Service, “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments”, 3-29, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RS22570.pdf]]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Strategic Target. A concern is that … already deployed missiles that included IRBMs.23</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That prevents US response to provocations, including military aid to the South if a conflict starts</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bruce</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Klingner 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Senior Research Fellow, Northeast Asia, Heritage Foundation, “New North Korean Missile Unit Reflects Growing Missile Threat”, 3-11, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/03/new-north-korean-missile-unit-reflects-growing-missile-threat]]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">North Korea has established an independent … during an April 2009 test flight.</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Guam is the lynchpin of deterrence---key to crisis response</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kan and Niksch 7 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shirley is a Specialist in National Security Policy and Larry is a Specialist in Asian Affairs at the CRS. “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments,” Jan 16, Online</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Guam is a U.S. territory long … withdraw from South Korea and Japan.</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ensures conflict escalation --- US support’s key to deter and effectively retaliate to Northern aggression</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chosun Ilbo 10-8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, “A Poor Result from Missile Negotiations”,[[http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2012/10/08/2012100801408.html]]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">South Korean and U.S. officials wrapped … is heating up in Northeast Asia.</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Draws in great powers</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dibb 6, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Emeritus Prof of IR @ Australian National University, Sydney Morning Herald (Australia), August 15, 2006 Tuesday, As one nuclear flashpoint reaches a lull, another simmers away, Pg. 11, Lexis</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NOW that the building blocks for achieving … Iran and Israel in the Middle East.</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Causes nuclear escalation and extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chol 11** Kim Myong Chol is author of a number of books and papers in Korean, Japanese and English on North Korea, including Kim Jong-il's Strategy for Reunification. He has a PhD from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea's Academy of Social Sciences "Dangerous games" Aug 20 www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/MH20Dg01.html</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The divided and heavily armed Korean … much radioactive fallout as 150-180 H-bombs.</span>




===**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 is Relations</span>**=== 



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Relations are at a defining moment – negotiations are pushing Japan to shoulder the cost of realignment</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japan Times 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Japan Times, 3/25/12, “Japan asked to shell out extra $1 billion over marines’ transfer to Guam,[[http://www.japantimes.co.jp/text/nn20120325b2.html]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Washington is pushing Tokyo to pay …this figure be slashed to just 4,700 marines.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The perception of new funding is key – lack of status quo support sends the wrong signal to Japan</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bordallo 5/23</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Madeleine Z. Bordallo, congresswoman for the United States, representing Guam, 5/23/2012, “STATEMENT ON THE SENATE CUTS TO MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS ON GUAM”, [[http://bordallo.house.gov/press-release/statement-senate-cuts-military-construction-projects-guam]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Congresswoman Madeleine Z. Bordallo today issued … including the requirements of section 2207.”</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan eases the financial burden on Japan and sends a strong signal of commitment to the buildup</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Calvo 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Eddie Calvo, Governor of the United States territory of Guam, former Senator within the Legislature of Guam, Office of Governor Eddie Baza Calvo, 5/23/12, “NEWS: Calvo Fights for Federal Action on Guam So Buildup Can Start”,[[http://governor.guam.gov/2012/05/23/news-calvo-fights-federal-action-guam-buildup-start/]] | AK)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Governor’s main point – it’s important for leaders in Washington … the U.S. government is serious about this commitment.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s reverse-causal – failure to relocate to Guam destroys relations</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Delgado 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Nick Delgado, staff writer for Kuam News, Kuam News—Guam’s News Network, 6/30/12, “Guam briefing held on Capitol Hill”,[[http://www.kuam.com/story/18921168/2012/06/30/guam-briefing-held-on-capitol-hill]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Congresswoman Madeleine Bordallo gave brief remarks … relations with the Japan government.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Realignment is sufficient to solve the alliance</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Talmadge 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Eric Talmadge, Associated Press, Navy Times, 2/7/12, “U.S., Japan mull sending 4,700 Marines to Guam”,[[http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/02/ap-us-japan-mull-sending-4700-marines-to-guam-020712/]] | AK)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Though it leaves the Okinawa base issue unresolved … in a less congested part of the island.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Relocation is the crucial prerequisite to cooperation on all other issues – overcomes alt causes</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Barnes 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Julian E. Barnes, Pentagon reporter at the Wall Street Journal, Yuka Hayashi, staff writer for the Wall Street Journal, Wall Street Journal, 4/27/12, “U.S. and Japan Agree on Deal To Move Forces”,[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303990604577368563724460628.html]] | AK)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. and Japan reached agreement … militarily effective, and fiscally sustainable agreement."</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alliance solves multiple threats – escalates to global nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gates 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Robert Gates, U.S. Secretary of Defense, U.S. Department of Defense, 1/14/11, “U.S.-Japan Alliance a Cornerstone of Asian Security”, [[http://www.defense.gov/speeches/speech.aspx?speechid=1529]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Over the course of its history, … the military capabilities of our potential adversaries.</span>



**Cooperation over the plan is key to an effective alliance – key to regional stability and curbing climate change**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 8</span> (Joseph, Joseph S. Nye, Jr., assistant secretary of defense under Clinton. Currently, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and dean at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Father of Soft Power, “The Future of the Japan-U.S. Alliance,” 5/21, http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/commentary/data/000057 ghs-ef)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Many analysts currently detect malaise...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">alliance look more promising than ever</span>


**Limiting atmospheric CO2 now is key to stop runaway warming which causes extinction.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deibel 7</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Terry L. Deibel, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” pages 397-8, 2007]</span>

Finally there is one major threat....of life on this planet.





===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#affirmative-1ac guam roads-latest plan text]]Plan Text</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus the plan: The Executive Branch of the United States federal government should substantially increase investment in the Guam Road Network.</span>**



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#affirmative-1ac guam roads-solvency]]Contention 3 is Solvency</span>=== 



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The realignment is moving forward – negotiations point to a secure budget</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">JPENS 9/25</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Jiji Press English News Service, 9/25/11, “U.S. Official Hopeful for Budget to Move Marines in Japan to Guam”, ProQuest)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Washington, Sept. 24 (Jiji Press)--A senior</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and the House of Representatives.END</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Guam Road Network is crucial – absent new road infrastructure, traffic congestion will destroy the relocation</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DoN 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Six: Related Actions – Utilities and Roadway Projects, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTIONS”,[[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]] | AK)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1.1 PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS 1.1.1 Introduction The Guam Road Network (GRN) is proposed … explained in further detail in Section 2.5.1.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Realignment will fail without the plan – road infrastructure is key</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GAO 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Government Accountability Office, “DEFENSE INFRASTRUCTURE Planning Efforts for the Proposed Military Buildup on Guam Are in Their Initial Stages, with Many Challenges Yet to Be Addressed” [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a481050.pdf)]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In addition, DOD and government … increase significantly with the military buildup.</span>



=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Neg Strats</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Lakeland</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Round 1 v. Public Transit (Race)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">T-USFG</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Immigration DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Oil DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">State PIC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Zizek </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Round 3 v. Walk Away From America </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Anthro</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Agonism (SSD)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Framework </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Round 5 v. Climate Adaptation</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">T-Maintenance</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Immigration DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Clean Tech Trade-Off</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Zizek</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Case</span>