[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==NOLA== 
The United States Federal Government should give block grants to the city of New Orleans to invest in surface infrastructure.
===Corporate Facism=== 
Another Hurricane will surely strike New Orleans
The Telegraph 05 (Francis Harris in Washington) “City waited for the inevitable but the cost of prevention was just too high” 01 Sep 2005 http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/1497397/City-waited-for-the-inevitable-but-the-cost-of-prevention-was-just-too-high.html Herm
For decades, New Orleans had been "dodging the bullet" as one hurricane
AND
city had to fight with the defences it had. They weren't enough.

But Residents will be devastated once more because Katrina was not simply a natural disaster but a manifestation of corporate fascism and capitalist exploitation
ICC 05- (International Communist Current,“Hurricane Katrina: A Capitalist-made Crisis,” September 7, 2005, [[http://en.internationalism.org/inter/136_katrina.html]] JUNEJA)
Everyone has seen the catastrophic images. Bloated corpses floating in fetid flood waters in
AND
commandeering” is the difference between being poor and rich in America today.

Who lived and who died was part of a social calculus based on how much a society decides to care for the under privileged. FEMA didn’t just make mistakes for a few months—the death and suffering stemmed from Katrina were decades in the making. 
Smith 06 – Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the CUNY Graduate Center where he also directs the Center for Place, Culture and Politics (Neil, “There’s No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster” March 2006, http://www.ladeltacorps.org/uploads/4/3/8/1/4381788/cg-ar-packet.pdf )//ALo
It is generally accepted among environmental geographers that there is no such thing as a
AND
are more than anything dependent on one’s race, ethnicity and social class.

The victims of Katrina were a result of the neoliberal regime and fascist machine that looked on as thousands perished
Emory 06- (Stewart Varner, professor, “Hurricane Katrina, Neoliberal Globalization and the Global City,” April 2006. [[http://www.emory.edu/HypheNation/Hurricane%20Katrina.pdf/]]JUNEJA)
So it seems that, at every level, those individuals and agencies who were
AND
strapped state and local governments could not meet the challenges that faced them. 

And this capitalist exploitation has created two specific weaknesses that prevent New Orleans residents from being able to cope with another Katrina
New Orleans reports the highest asset poverty rates-means they cannot afford an emergency situation
The Times Picayune 12 –(Rebecca Mowbray, staff writer, “Asset poverty is a big problem in New Orleans, where many have no cash cushion,” August 14, 2012. [[http://www.nola.com/business/index.ssf/2012/08/asset_poverty_is_a_big_problem.html]] JUNEJA)

Some 37 percent of New Orleans households would not be able to survive for more
AND
foundation hopes to hold summits on the topic in the next few months.

The surface infrastructure of New Orleans has yet to be restored- means they cannot evacuate in an emergency situation
The roads are compromised
The Times Picayune 10- (‘Potholes, leaky sewers, crumbling bridges: New Orleans infrastructure study analyzes "The Price of Civilization,"’ August 14, 2010. [[http://www.nola.com/opinions/index.ssf/2010/08/potholes_leaky_sewers_crumblin.html]] JUNEJA)
Bumpy streets are so commonplace in New Orleans that residents have taken some extreme measures
AND
City Hall and public safety facilities -- in need of repair or replacement."
There is no reliable mass-transit system for the carless
VTPI 06- (Victoria Transport Policy Institute, Todd Litman, “lessons from Katrina and Rita,” 13 April 2006, [[http://www.vtpi.org/katrina.pdf]] JUNEJA)
However, there was no effective plan to evacuate transit dependent residents. In an
AND
medical care and security. This lead to a medical and humanitarian crisis. 

We can break down these specific institutional discrepancies by:
Establishing a more reliable surface infrastructure will allow residents to not only be able to afford, but also have a way to evacuate
Transportation Infrastructure has been acknowledged to uniquely enable poverty reduction
ADBI 2012- (Asian Development Bank Research Institute, “Transportation Infrastructure and Poverty Reduction,” 2012, [[http://www.adbi.org/files/2006.04.rpb21.transport.infrastructure.poverty_000.pdf]] JUNEJA)
Transport infrastructure investment has long been assumed to contribute indirectly to poverty reduction, channeled
AND
98 and 2002–03 can be attributed to improved road access alone. 

A transit system for the carless will mitigate the sufferings in New Orleans
Masozera et al, 06 – collection of Professors from the University of Vermont, Department of Community Development and Applied Economics (Michel Masozera, Melissa Bailey, and Charles Kerchner, “Distribution of impacts of natural disasters across income groups: A case study of New Orleans”, http://www.d.umn.edu/~pfarrell/Natural%20Hazards/Readings/Katrina%20article.pdf)//BZ
Improve access to transportation” Efforts at rebuilding must address the fact that many of
AND
reconstruction effort will be useful in developing policies that improve natural disaster management.

Transportation Infrastructure specifically address the heart of this issue by fighting all forms of classism
Pastor et al. 06 [Manuel Pastor is codirector of the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Robert D. Bullard is Ware Professor of Sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. James K. Boyce is professor of economics at the Political Economy Research Institute of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Alice Fothergill is assistant professor of sociology at the University of Vermont. Rachel Morello-Frosch is Carney Assistant Professor in the School of Medicine at Brown University. Beverly Wright is professor of sociology and director of the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice at Dillard University.] “Environment, Disaster and Race After Katrina” http://urbanhabitat.org/files/Pastor.Bullard.etc.Env.Katrina.pdf
How consequential is racial inequality in environmental conditions? A Southern California study estimating lifetime
AND
with race, income, and other social characteristics that we now turn.

===Framework=== 
The USFG is key- corporates do not have the resources, and the state has empirically failed
The Times Picayune 10- (‘Potholes, leaky sewers, crumbling bridges: New Orleans infrastructure study analyzes "The Price of Civilization,"’ August 14, 2010. [[http://www.nola.com/opinions/index.ssf/2010/08/potholes_leaky_sewers_crumblin.html]] JUNEJA)
Even with only partial numbers, the situation is grim. The Sewerage & Water
AND
a thorny problem, but the city's future well being depends on it.

A federal response is the only ethical route. We need to recognize our collective responsibility to vulnerable populations. 
Giroux, 2006 – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ
In a May 25, 2001 interview, Grover Norquist, head of the right
AND
necessary for an adequate emergency response plan in the event of a flood.
There is an infinite obligation for government action on Katrina 
Jorgenson 11 Hurricane Katrina: Humanitarian Obligations and Lessons Learned Ellen Jorgenson Case-Specific Briefing Paper Humanitarian Assistance in Complex Emergencies University of Denver 2011
According to Fred Cuny, the root cause of most disasters is poverty (Van
AND
, NGO and individual reactions to disasters, interpreted through policy and practice.

The state is inevitable – our obligation is to make it as ethical as possible
Simmons 99 William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 
Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State’, 70 Levinas insists that the
AND
to itself, only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure.
The 1AC is a pedagogical advocacy that opens up new opportunities for democratic deliberation and political action. A recognition of our obligations to the materially deprived helps to combat the biopolitics of disposability.
Giroux, 2006 – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ
Biopolitics is not just about the reduction of selected elements of the population to the
AND
lifeblood of democracy, becomes cold and indifferent in the face of death.

Integrating ethical obligations to the other into politics is the only way to prevent totalitarianism
Simmons 99 William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 
Levinas argues for a place for both ethics and politics, or, to employ
AND
which is perpetually becoming more just. Levinas calls for the liberal state.
Sacrificing agency in the political sphere causes bad policymaking and ends in extinction
Boggs 2000 (BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 2K CAROL, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1) Herm
But it is a very deceptive and misleading minimalism. While Oakeshott debunks political mechanisms
AND
forces cannot be tamed by a pragmatic, muddling-through modus operandi.







=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]