<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I put requested cites here. Just send an email to smathews13@kentdenver.org.</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">September-October</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Habermas AC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I value morality since ought implies a moral obligation. Moral logic is metaethically subordinate to language. **Wittgenstein:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Tractatus Logico-philisophicus, International Library of Psychology Philosophy and Scientific Method, London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & CO., LTD, 1922)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The limits of... by the proposition.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The communication of others is the only way to verify objective truth. **Habermas:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Jurgen Habermas, “Truth and Justification”, translated by Barbara Fultner, 2003 Massachusetts Institute of Technology)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This performatively established... understandings and actions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Denying someone’s right to communicate is a performative contradiction. **Hoppe:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(From the Economics of Laissez Faire to The Ethics of Libertarianism, Hans-Hermann Hoppe, in Man, Economy, and Liberty: Essays in Honor of Murray N. Rothbard, The Ludwig von Mises Institute Auburn University)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, it should... in a contradiction. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Discourse ethics is a side constraint on, and a prerequisite to other ethical theories. **Kettner:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Vol. 6, no. 1 (2011) Discourse Ethics beyond Apel and Habermas. A Realistic Relaunch, by Matthias Kettner)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Taking up what... within moral discourse.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Government power is derived from the communication of its constituents. **Flynn:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Communicative Power in Habermas’s Theory of Democracy, Jeffrey Flynn, Middlebury College, Vermont, European Journal of Political Theory)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Habermas argues that... generated communicative power.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is maintaining a free system of communication.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Article III courts are key to rendering the most informed agreement about a defendant’s sentencing. **Corbett:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Brett Corbett 2010 [“The Use of Military Tribunals: Incompatible with the Notion of ‘Full and Fair’” 2010.http://polisci.uoregon.edu/acrobat/HTCorbett.pdf])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A highly valued... punishment possible: death.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Article III prevents distortion of evidence and best equips a defendant to advocate for himself. **Wang:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Tova Andrea Wang, 2003 The Century Foundation. The Military Tribunals Debate)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to the Defense... an effective defense.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only federal courts ensure public opinion and participation are included in the process. **CFC:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(THE INDEFINITE DETENTION OF “ENEMY COMBATANTS”: BALANCING DUE PROCESS AND NATIONAL SECURITY IN THE CONTEXT OF THE WAR ON TERROR The Association of the Bar of the City of New York Committee on Federal Courts February 6, 2004 (revised March 18, 2004))</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In summarizing the... acceptance of its legitimacy. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 1 - Preempts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Detention fuels nationalism, terrorism, and extremist propaganda. **Waxman:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Matthew C. Waxman 09, [Associate Professor, Columbia Law School; Adjunct Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations; Member of the Hoover Institution Task Force on National Security and Law], “ADMINISTRATIVE DETENTION OF TERRORISTS: WHY DETAIN, AND DETAIN WHOM?”, JOURNAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY LAW & POLICY, March 19, 2009.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Historically, detention practices... in battling insurgencies.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirming the cosmopolitan equality of all persons regardless of citizenship is the only way to prevent nuclear war. **Pogge:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Pogge, Thomas W. "Cosmopolitanism and Sovereignty." Ethics 103.1 (1992): 48-75.JSTOR. Web. 17 June 2012. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381495)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under the current regime... adjudicated and enforced.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Non-citizens give to the state and fulfill contractual agreements with us. **Cole:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Cole, David. "Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?."GEORGETOWN LAW The Scholarly Commons. (2003): n. page. Web. 23 Aug. 2012)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fact that... solicitude is appropriate.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 2 - Theory</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nickel** clarifies due process:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF LEGAL STUDIES: ISSUE 1 Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies James W. Nickel)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DPRs are legal... to a higher court.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff gets RVIs </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. Strat-skew </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. Topic Lit </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">c. Reciprocity</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No neg counterplans on this topic.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. Predictability</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. Research skew</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">c. Ground</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">d. Real-world - Bell: </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Bringing terrorists to justice – Joshua T. Bell, Vol 4, No 4 (2010))</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The debate as... a constructive debate. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-View 3 - Courts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Article III empirically get a ton of convictions with no intelligence release. **Bell:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Joshua T. Bell 10 [Special Agent with the United States Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) in Washington, D.C.], “Trying Al Qaeda: Bringing Terrorists to Justice”, Perspectives on Terrorism, a journal of the Terrorism Research Initiative, Vol. 4 No. 4, 2010.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Among the most... and impartial way</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prussians NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The will becomes normative through its intersubjective unification by the state. **Hegel:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Philosophy of the Right, Part III: The Ethical Life, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/works/pr/prstate.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The state is... authoritative within it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The state’s will is synonymous with morality because a normative constraint on the state only makes sense in terms of its own power. **Williams:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(State Morality in International Relations, Bruce Williams, The American Political Science Review, Vol. 17, No. 1 (Feb., 1923), pp. 17-33)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It has been... not be detained.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Those in power define the opposition between good and bad. **Nietzsche:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Nietzsche “On the Genealogy of Morals” translated by Ian Johnston. http://records.viu.ca/~johnstoi/nietzsche/genealogy1.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On the contrary... take possession of it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is consistency with the will of the state. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I contend that the state wills that non-citizens ought not have due process. **Cole:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens? David Cole Georgetown University Law Center, cole@law.georgetown.edu)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the wake... normal judicial process.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Denying due process is most consistent with the state’s will because it’s a pre-requisite to the state’s normative authority. **Butler:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Precarious Life: The Powers of Morning and Violence, Judith Butler, 2004, Page 52)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With the publication... power takes place.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Danger Close NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An obligation to collective utility is constitutive of government. **Goodin 1:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Robert E. Goodin. Philosopher of Political Theory, Public Policy, and Applied Ethics, Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy, Cambridge University Press, 1995. p. 26-7] SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The great advantage... defensible public philosophy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Util is the only epistemically accessible theory to governments. **Goodin 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consider, first, the... possible general rule.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Preventing extinction is a side-constraint on any ethical theory. **Bostrom:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(2011 Nick Bostrom, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These reflections on... any existential catastrophe.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My advocacy is that we use targeted killings in Pakistan but I’ll defend giving no one due process. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Targeted killing is mutually exclusive with giving terrorists due process. **Proulx:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Vincent-Joel, Doctoral Candidate, If the Hat Fits, Wear It, If the Turban Fits, Run for your Life: Reflections on the Indefinite Detention and Targeted Killing of Suspected Terrorists, Hastings Law Review 56.801, 889-890).</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> This leads us... law and dignity. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pakistani terrorism cells are on the brink now but more strikes are needed. **Miller:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Greg Miller, “Officials: Al-Qaeda close to collapse” The Washington Post. Met 2 Edition, July 27, 2011, p. A01)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> U.S. counterterrorism officials... regionally focused nodes. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Targeted killing is key to high-value target destruction. **Llenza:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Targeted Killings in Pakistan: A Defense Michael Steven Llenza Diplomacy Department Norwich University, Global Security Studies, Spring, 2011, Volume 2, Issue 2) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Two leading aggregators... also killed (ibid.). </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Put away your generic turns. Backlash empirically went down in Pakistan because of targeted killing. **Johnston:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Impact of U.S. Drone Strikes on Terrorism in Pakistan, February 25, 2012, Post-Doctoral Scholar, Department of Political Science, Stanford University) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Do drone strikes... suicide attacks speciﬁcally. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Targeted killing is key to strategic disruption. In Pakistan it doesn’t create backlash – it empowers the people to destroy terrorist organizations. **Llenza 2:** </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What counter-terrorism... their return (ibid.). </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unchecked terrorism in Pakistan causes regional conflict and risks escalation. **Vira:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Escalating from Terrorism to Nuclear War on the Asian Subcontinent, Varun Vira, Small Wars Journal, Varun Vira) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Historically over the... larger-scale conflict.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kashmir war ends in extinction. **Fai:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Ghulam Nabi Fai, executive director of the Kashmiri American Council, July 8, 2001, The Washington Times, “The most dangerous place,” p. B4) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The most dangerous... Cut-off Convention.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Requested Cites</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prussians NC Framework 2</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Morality cannot stand independent of the social institutions that it’s applied to. **Young:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Iris Marion Young, Justice and the Politics of Difference, Princeton University Press, 1990)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The attempt to... liberal capitalist societies.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Social morality is only identifiable through the actions of the state. **Gusfield:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Moral Passage: The Symbolic Process in Public Designations of Deviance, Joseph R. Gusfield, Social Problems, Vol. 15, No. 2 (Autumn, 1967), pp. 175-188)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Agents of government... behavior through enforcement.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AT ICT</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">International trials are illegitimate, never happen because of security concerns, and marginalize muslim communities. **Wedgewood:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Al Qaeda, Terrorism, and Military Commissions, Ruth Wedgwood, The American Journal of Intemarional Law, Vol. 96, No. 2. (Aplz, 2002), pp. 328-337.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The idea of... any American voice.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">November-December</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pulp Fiction AC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">American education is conformist and the public is increasingly violent and totalitarian. Racism is the root cause of American threat construction and creates totalizing spheres of domination in everyday life. We need to defy current educational practices to disrupt American prejudice. **Giroux:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Giroux, 06 [Henry, chair of cultural studies at McMaster University, Dirty Democracy and State Terrorism: The Politics of the New Authoritarianism in the United States, Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East 26.2 (2006) 163-177, http: muse.jhu.edu.proxy.library.emory.edu/journals/comparative_studies_of_south_asia_africa_and_the_middle_east/v026/26.2giroux.html])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are indeed... on the offense.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Debate is a unique forum where we can influence and change external social dynamics. Discussion of race has empirically had a real-world impact on disadvantaged minorities. **Reid-Brinkley:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE,” 2008. http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The debate community... the general public.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We must reject racialized practices because they mask oppression and undermine agency. While identifying with race is acceptable in terms of social unity, it is only justifiable if used to critique the social practices that have led to such oppression in the first place. **Monahan:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Race, Colorblindness, and Continental Philosophy Michael Monahan Marquette University, Philosophy Compass, Volume 1, No. 6, September 2006)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Given Naomi Zack’s... rejection of racialization.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Before examining moral claims we must examine our beliefs. Prejudice contorts knowledge and institutionalizes epistemic violence towards the other. **Cochrane:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Epistemic Violence of Racism Hidden Transcripts of Whiteness James R. Cochrane Director of Research Institute on Christianity in South Africa University of Cape Town) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prejudices are embedded... justified and defended.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We must promote policies that rectify racism. **Cochrane 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because racism arises... of eradicating racism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is combatting racist structures of violence. I contend that guaranteeing universal health care is key to combatting racism in the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Without universal care, African Americans are discriminated against in the health industry. Socio-economic disparities are not an alt cause. **Bhopal:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(BMJ. 1998 June 27; 316(7149): 1970–1973. PMCID: PMC1113412 Spectre of racism in health and health care: lessons from history and the United States Raj Bhopal) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Osborne concluded that... do black patients.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is empirically verified. Thousands of African Americans die every year in disproportionate numbers because of a lack of medical care. **Frazier:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Health Care Racism Kills 83,000 Yearly, Martin Frazier, People’s World, April 2nd, 2005) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A report in... national health system. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Health care is the only way to solve the root cause of racism. Other social welfare programs can’t solve. **Rouse:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Uncertain Suffering: Racial Health Care Disparities and Sickle Cell Disease University of California Press, Aug 3, 2009 - 314) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Current attempts to... and urban neighborhoods. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Universal health care is key to checking back racists traditions in the United States and interceding against ethnic disparity. **Leonard:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Dr. David J. Leonard Author, Educator Got Solutions? Beyond Denial and Toward Transformation (Part 2) Posted: 09/07/2012 9:40 am. Huffington Post.http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-david-j-leonard/got-solutions-beyond-deni_b_1850958.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A consequence of America's... on board with.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 1 - Interps</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My advocacy is a publically funded single payer system.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff gets RVIs.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. Strat-skew</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. Topic Lit</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Presume aff.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Skep means you presume.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 2 - Preempts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The well off in society negatively violate the rights of those who are not, mandating assistance. Governments are directly responsible for putting those in poverty in their situation through their actions, regulation of the economy, and public policy. Any means-based standard collapses into affirming because we have a positive duty to rectify these harms. **Pogge:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Thomas Pogge, (‘Priorities of Global Justice,’ Metaphilosophy, Vol 32., January, 2001))</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are not... the developing world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirming is a pre-req to autonomy. The best way for people to be responsible for their own health is to provide universal health care. When uninsured, people can’t be autonomous and drag-down those around them. **Light:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Paul Menzel and Donald Light. A Conservative Case for Universal Access to Health Care [Professor of Philosophy atPacific Lutheran University] Hastings Center Report July-August 2006 pgs 3)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Conservatives’ wariness of... for American business.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Single-payer best protects general health and saves money. </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Lu and Hsiao:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Jui-Fen Rachel Lu and William C. Hsiao Does Universal Health Insurance Make Health Care Unaffordable? Lessons From Taiwan. Health Affairs. Vol 22 #3, 2003.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Taiwan established a... quality and health outcomes.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rawls AC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Moral norms are only justifiable if they’re hypothetical and unbiased. Otherwise, agents can always ask why they ought to be moral in the first place. In addition, non-agent relative norms are the only way to solve for pluralistic disagreement. **Stark:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Hypothetical Consent and Justification, Cynthia A. Stark, The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 97, No. 6 (Jun., 2000), pp. 313-334, Journal of Philosophy, Inc.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The basic idea... renders it empty.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To truly understand oneself, one must legislate from the original position and acknowledge the perspectives of others. **Beatty:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Rationality of the "Original Position": A Defense, Joseph Beatty, Ethics, Vol. 93, No. 3 (Apr., 1983), pp. 484-495, The University of Chicago Press)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Why, however, is... to determine themselves.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We must legislate rules from the original position to eliminate bias and maintain consistency with the equality of persons. **Freeman:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Freeman, Samuel. "Original Position." Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/original-position/#ArgForDifPri. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The remedy for... for moral persons.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even if someone were a risk-taker from behind the veil, they would still choose to promote the well being of the worst-off in order to maximize their potential to take risks in the future. **Freeman 2**:</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is often... principle of utility.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is promoting the equal opportunity of persons.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1 is Behind the Veil</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A) Individuals would contract to for universal healthcare because it would ensure a basic standard of care. **Henneberger:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Henneberger, Ian, "Healthcare and Justice: A Moral Obligation?" (2011). Philosophy Honors Papers. Paper 1. http://digitalcommons.conncoll.edu/philhp/1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rational and self-concerned... put towards healthcare.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B) Individuals would will universal health care because they would perceive it as providing equal access. **Henneberger 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Daniels finds the... the least advantaged.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 2 is Outside the Veil</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A) Universal health care prevents death and decreases socioeconomic inequality. **Gelormino et al:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Elena Gelormino , Clare Bambra , Teresa Spadea , Silvia Bellini , Giuseppe Costa, “The Effects of Health Care Reforms on Health Inequalities: A Review and Analysis of the European Evidence Base”, International Journal of Health Services, Volume 41, No. 2.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The studies that... of income distribution.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B) Health care is key to mitigating the adverse effects of social inequality and lack of mobility. **Marshall:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(National Healthcare and Amrican Constitutional Culture, William P. Marshall, Kenan Professor of Law, University of North Carolina., Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, Vol. 35)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One of the most... are as nation. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C) Universal health care would prevent 45,000 deaths per year and prevent the marginalization of ethnic minorities. **Leonard:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Dr. David J. Leonard Author, Educator Got Solutions? Beyond Denial and Toward Transformation (Part 2) Posted: 09/07/2012 9:40 am. Huffington Post.http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-david-j-leonard/got-solutions-beyond-deni_b_1850958.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A consequence of... on board with.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 1 - Interps</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My advocacy is a publically funded single payer system. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff gets RVIs.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. Strat-skew</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. Topic Lit</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Presume aff.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Skep means you presume.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-view 2 - Preempts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The well off in society negatively violate the rights of those who are not, mandating assistance. Governments are directly responsible for putting those in poverty in their situation through their actions, regulation of the economy, and public policy. Any means-based standard collapses into affirming because we have a positive duty to rectify these harms. **Pogge:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Thomas Pogge, ‘Priorities of Global Justice,’ Metaphilosophy, Vol 32., January, 2001))</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are not... the developing world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirming is a pre-req to autonomy. The best way for people to be responsible for their own health is to provide universal health care. When uninsured, people can’t be autonomous and drag-down those around them. **Light:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Paul Menzel and Donald Light. A Conservative Case for Universal Access to Health Care [Professor of Philosophy atPacific Lutheran University] Hastings Center Report July-August 2006 pgs 3)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Conservatives’ wariness of... for American business.</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">S</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">ingle-payer best protects general health and saves money. </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Lu and Hsiao:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Jui-Fen Rachel Lu and William C. Hsiao Does Universal Health Insurance Make Health Care Unaffordable? Lessons From Taiwan. Health Affairs. Vol 22 #3, 2003.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Taiwan established a... quality and health outcomes.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Autonomy NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Presume neg.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Humans are ends in themselves because they’re the source of external value. **Korsgaard:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Christine Korsgaard: The Authority of Reflection, Foundations of Ethics: An Anthology by Russ Shafer-Landau])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">He started from... its own sake.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Autonomy comes first because it’s a precondition to making truth claims. **Hoppe:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(From the Economics of Laissez Faire to The Ethics of Libertarianism, Hans-Hermann Hoppe, in Man, Economy, and Liberty: Essays in Honor of Murray N. Rothbard, The Ludwig von Mises Institute Auburn University)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, it should... in a contradiction. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is respecting autonomy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Healthcare coerces people to buy insurance and redistributes income. **Reynolds:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Alan Reynolds [Senior Cato Institute Fellow]. “Redistributing Health”. New York Post. December 12 2009.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Proponents of compulsory... for taxpayer subsidies.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Last Man NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The good needs to be situated in overcoming because ends are inescapably fleeting. **Katsafanas:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Deriving Ethics from Action: A Nietzschean Version of Constitutivism, Paul Katsafanas, Boston University, Philosophy and Phenomenological Research Vol. LXXXIII No. 3, November 2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Many philosophers reject... and attaining goals.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We unify experience by overcoming it. **Warren:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Mark Warren, Nietzsche and Political Philosophy, Political Theory, Vol. 13, No. 2 (May, 1985), pp. 183-212)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The final presupposition... and the evaluative.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is overcoming resistance. Pitying others or attempting to alleviate suffering violates agents' ability to overcome. **Routledge:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Nietzsche on Herd Morality and the Critique of ‘Modern Ideas,’ Routledge Publishing, A Taylor and Francis Group)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When Nietzsche condemns... morality of pity</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The will to power precludes us from assenting to general state action – it underpins a consistent state of anarchy where individuals reject the state from influencing their lives. **Martin:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Aristocratic Radicalism or Anarchy? An examination of Nietzsche’s Doctrine of Will to Power, Martin Jenkins. BA [Hons], MA, PGCE, Cert Coun)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mastery is by... and contest it.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmation NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To negate is ‘to deny the truth of’ so my advocacy is that we reject the resolution on face. However, I’ll still defend the status quo.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Before examining philosophical problems we must first justify and embrace our own existence. **Camus:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Myth Of Sisyphus And Other Essays, Albert Camus Translated from the French by Justin O’Brien, 1955)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is but... urgent of questions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nihilism poses an irreconcilable threat to existence because a meaningless life is one not worth living. **Reginster:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Affirmation of Life: Nietzsche on Overcoming Nihilism, Bernard Reginster, Harvard University Press, 2006)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On the second... moral values themselves.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is rejecting nihilism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The AC is nihilistic in two ways. First, it embraces moral values that are life negating because they condemn behavior. This underpins nihilism and must be rejected. **Reginster 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Moral values are... it does not exist.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only by denying the nihilistic truth claims of the AC can we posit our own conception of value and avoid meaninglessness. **Reginster 3:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The primary form... life-negating values. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirming life demands that we challenge contingent notions of truth and embrace suffering. **Reginster 4:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As Nietzsche defines...of its achievement.</span>

//<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(And, my NC is not skepticism – I do not deny that moral claims or facts exist but rather that their enforcement is harmful and that we should embrace an alternative individual conception of the good. Moreover, you can turn the NC by saying that affirming better respects or improves the value of life and by weighing it against the offense of the NC.)</span>//
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Aristotelian AC=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The res is a question of which system is a better ideal, not which one should be implemented. **A) Textuality** - ‘ought to be’ entails an ideal, not an action. **Robinson:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Richard Robinson, “Ought and Ought Not,” Philosophy, Vol. 46, No. 177 (Jul., 1971), pp. 193-202.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Many ought-sentences... expressing an ideal.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B) Topic Lit – Cahill:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Michael Cahill, “Retributive Justice in the Real World,” Washington University Law Review, Vol. 85, 817-818.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By contrast, retributivism... known or stipulated.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Burden of proof is on the negative. Retribution is assumed to be unjust. **Shafer-Landau:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Failure of Retributivism, Russ Shafer-Landau, Philosophical Studies: An International Journal for Philosophy in the Analytic Tradition, Vol. 82, No. 3 (Jun., 1996), pp. 289-316.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Punishment is presumptively... are question-begging.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retributive systems must be based on desert and justify punishment for its own sake. **Hart:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(H. L. A. Hart, Punishment and Responsibility, Oxford University Press, 1968, 231.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is I... for the punishment?’</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehab includes deterrence. **Rotman:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Rotman, E. (1986). Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminality, 77 (4).)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation does not... counteract such abuses. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehab is punishment. **Daly:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Daly, Kathleen. “Revisiting the Relationship between Retributive and Restorative Justice” in Restorative Justice: From Philosophy to Practice (2000), edited by Heather Strang and John Braithwaite. Aldershot: Dartmouth. Web. (10))</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Another way to... a social institution.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We evaluate the moral quality of actions based on intent since consequences are epistemically inaccessible. **Dorsey:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Dale Dorsey, "Consequentialism, Metaphysical Realism and the Argument from Cluelessness,” Philosophical Quarterly 62 (246): 48-70 2012.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, virtually anything... without a clue.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Philosophy presupposes sociology. **Knight:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Kelvin Knight, “Aristotelianism vs Communitarianism,” Analyse & Kritik 27/2005 ( c Lucius & Lucius, Stuttgart) p. 259–273.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">From such a... modern social scientist"</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Value pluralism is true and cannot be rationally overcome. **MacIntyre:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Alasdair MacIntyre, After Virtue, undpress.nd.edu, 1992.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The first is... much moral debate.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only virtue ethics is consistent with pluralism. **Carhart:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Rebecca Carhart [Taylor University, Upland Indiana], “Pacifism and Virtue Ethics,” Lyceum, Volume XI, Number 1.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The contemporary field... the pacifist doctrine.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Virtue ethics avoids the failings of abstract and codified moral theories. **Silva:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Rui Silva, [University of Azores], “Virtue Ethics and Communitarianism,” DIACRÍTICA (Nº 25/2–2011): 141.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But what went... approaches to ethics.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Virtue ethics is key to a functioning legal system and is the only way for morality to be internally consistent. **Silva 2:** </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The second distinctive... confused with relativism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is promoting offenders’ ability to flourish. Rehab is best suited to treat offenders’ needs. **Cullen and Gendreau:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Francis T - Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice at the University of Cincinnati and Paul—Director of the Centre for Criminal Justice Studies and Prof. of Psychology at the University of New Brunswick at St. John, “Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects,” Criminal Justice, Vol. 3, 2000.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The first principle... interventions with offenders.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehab aims to rectify the social deprivation that underlies crime and to teach offenders self-control and self-help. **Raynor and Robinson:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Peter Raynor, [Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice], Gwen Robinson, [Senior Lecturer in Criminal Justice], “Why Help Offenders? Arguments for Rehabilitation as a Penal Strategy,” European Journal of Probation, Vol. 1, No. 1, 2009, pp 3 – 20.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, they also... benefit from them.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehab values offenders’ participation in society in general, developing their strengths and treating their deficits. **Raynor and Robinson 2:** </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, some recent... person can make” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The worry that rehab will underpin oppression is absurd; retributive systems are the cause of such harms. **Rubin:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Edward Rubin, “Just Say No to Retribution,” Buffalo Criminal Law Review, Vol. 7, No. 1 (April 2003), pp. 17-83. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The concern that... of recidivist statutes.</span>

===Engster AC=== 
//‘<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If you feel jaded, great philosopher, because no endeavor is lofty enough for you, plant a little tree or teach a small child to read. And if you wish to serve God,  comfort and care for the child.’ </span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Fyodor Dostoevsky, Notebooks to The Brothers Karamazov, from “Dostoevsky and Kant: Dialogues on Ethics,” by Evgenia Cherkasova, Value Inquiry Books Series, New York, 2009)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retributive systems must be based on desert and justify punishment for its own sake. **Hart:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">*H. L. A. Hart, //Punishment and Responsibility// (Oxford University Press, 1968), 231.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is I... for the punishment?</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Contemporary legal approaches are divorced from the interpersonal care they provide for their subjects. Such an approach violates the very foundation the law was built upon and has historically underpinned oppression. Prior to moral approaches, the law must first care for its subjects. </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">West:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Robin West, //Caring For Justice//, New York University Press, 1997) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The work of... injustice as well.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Any epistemic inquiry devolves into a question of ontology. **Heidegger:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Martin Heidegger, //Being and Time,// State University of New York Press, 1996) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fundamental concepts are... this expression being.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is particularly true because any concept must presuppose a proper conception of ontology to be internally sound. **Dillon:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Michael Dillon, Political Science, Lancaster, 1999, Moral Spaces, ed. Campbell and Shapiro, p. 97-8) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As Heidegger himself... put into question.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Human beings are ontologically tied to caring for others and receiving such care. </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Engster:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Daniel Engster. The Heart of Justice. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our dependency on... aggression and neglect.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s contradictory not to care for others because we implicitly value their care for us. **Engster 2:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Daniel Engster, “Rethinking Care Theory: The Practice of Caring and the Obligation to Care,” Hypatia, Volume 20, Number 3, Summer 2005, pp. 50-74) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Care theory avoids... and basic functioning.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is caring for others. The framework is means based because double effect must shape moral and legal inquiry. **Wedgewood:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Ralph Wedgewood, “Defending Double Effect,” Ratio 24.4 (2011): 384-401) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fundamental idea... whole normative domain.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The intention behind rehab is to care for and help the offender. Punishment’s intent is to make them suffer. **Cullen and Gendreau:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau, “Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects,” in Policies, Processes, and Decisions of the Criminal Justice System, vol. 3 , Julie Horney, ed., 2000, p. 130-31) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A collateral theme... violence and extermination. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only a rehabilitative approach introduces offenders to the emotional relevance of their crime and to those affected. Retributive justice denies interpersonal care and condemns persons to isolation. **Failinger:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Marie A. Failinger, “Lessons Unlearned: Women Offenders, The Ethics of Care, and The Promise of Restorative Justice,” Volume 33, Issue 2., Fordham Law Journal, 2007) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Restorative justice approaches... family group conferencing.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is particularly evident during retributive trial processes, which are adversarial and competitive by nature. **Failinger 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Restorative processes also... away from caring.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retribution breeds hatred. Rehabilitation is the best way to inspire cooperative solutions. **Failinger**</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> 3: </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perhaps most importantly... in family conferencing. </span>

===Pulp Fiction AC=== 
(Same Framework as the Racism AC I read on the Nov/Dec topic.)
I defend generic rehabilitation with no incarceration. First, the current retributive criminal justice system is rooted in racism. **Kearney:**
(Gavin, “Literature Review: Structural Racism, the Criminal Justice System and Violence Against Women,” The Battered Women’s Justice Project, http://www.bwjp.org/files/bwjp/articles/Structural_Racism_in_the_Criminal_Justice_System.pdf) SM

There are 50... the criminal law.

These policies have empirically led to widespread oppression outside of African Americans to other minority populations. **Kearney 2:**

Current political trends... to individualistic ideals.

Retributivism perpetuates systemic social inequality and is the epitome of racism. **Kearney 3:**

In contemporary society... the United States.”

Only rehab solves the disparity. Racial biasing in the current system is the result of a shift from rehab to retribution. **ASA:**
(ASA Series on How Race and Ethnicity Matter," Race, Ethnicity, and the Criminal Justice System, SEPTEMBER 2007) SM

At current incarceration... poor, minority communities” (76:28).

Our retribution against minorities is the result of long-standing repression during the civil rights movement. The black subject has become identified as a villain in the public mind. Only the discourse of rehabilitation can overcome the racialization of American politics. **Lawrence:**
(Keith Lawrence, “Race, Crime, and Punishment: Breaking the Connection in America,” The Aspen Institute, 2011) SM

We’ve moved from... into “our people.”

===**Legality AC**=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retributivism must use voluntary desert and justify punishment for its own sake. **Hart:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">H. L. A. Hart, Punishment and Responsibility (Oxford University Press, 1968), 231. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is I... for the punishment?’</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehab is offered in conjunction with punishment in a proportional manner. **Ihuah:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alloy Ihuah, [Department of Philosophy, Lagos State University, Ojoo-Lagos, Nigeria], “The Morality and Rationality of Punishment,” Authors Den, March 4th, 2010. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation aims to... policies of the courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, moral and legal ‘oughts’ are distinct. **Glos:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">George E. Glos, The Normative Theory of Law, 11 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 151 (1969),[[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/wmlr/vol11/iss1/6]]. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The mutual relation... fight and kill).</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, moral questions aren’t applicable to issues of criminal justice. **Blumoff:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Theodore Y. Blumoff, “Justifying Punishment,” Canadian Journal of Law and Jurisprudence, v. 14 (2), July 2001, p. 166-67.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Different criminals violating... direct this inquiry.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Therefore, the standard is consistency with legal obligations. However, even if the resolution is in actuality a moral ought, legality still holds supremacy over and determines the content of normative rules. **Green:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Leslie Green, Professor of the Philosophy of Law and Fellow of Balliol College, University of Oxford; Professor, Osgoode Hall Law School of York University, Toronto. POSITIVISM AND THE INSEPARABILITY OF LAW AND MORALS, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY LAW REVIEW [Vol. 83:1035 October 2008. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Legal systems make... that they do.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, this is particularly true given that moral norms are not identifiable outside of the pluralistic and contextual environments from which they arise. Legality unifies these disagreements. **Habermas:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jurgen Habermas, Law and Morality, THE TANNER LECTURES ON HUMAN VALUES, October 1, 1986. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is characteristic... assessment of principles</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus, legality trumps moral authority because only it is binding for an agent. **Habermas 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An autonomous morality... with moral arguments.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So, I contend that the state is legally obligated to provide rehabilitation. First, parole contracts mean offenders are due rehab as a part of their release conditions. **Rotman:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rotman, E. (1986). Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminality, 77 (4). SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Another possible source... conditions of their release.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, international law and numerous domestic treaties mandate rehabilitation. **Rotman 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A variety of... readaptation of prisoners.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, the harmful conditions inside prisons create a reciprocal obligation for the government to help offenders get back into society. This is verified under constitutional law. **Rotman 3:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To subject inmates... constitutions and statutes.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, retributive accounts are apolitical, so they aren’t consistent with legal obligation. **Brettschneider:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brettschneider, Corey. “The Rights of the Guilty: Punishment and Political Legitimacy.” Political Theory, Vol. 35, No. 2 (Apr. 2007), pp. 175-199.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Traditional retributive account... deserve qua citizens.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, the death penalty is unconstitutional. **ACLU:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ACLU, “The Case Against the Death Penalty,” http://www.aclu.org/capital-punishment/case-against-death-penaltyDecember 11th, 2012. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The American Civil... that are executed. </span>

===Under-View Module 1=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retribution doesn’t deter and engenders harm to minorities. External factors and long-term recidivism prove. **Bacik:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Ivana Bacik, “Crime and Punishment – Retribution and Rehabilitation,” The Bar Council of Ireland, Law Library.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, international research... for the decrease.'</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Meta-review of meta-studies proves rehab is unequivocally effective. **Cullen and Gendreau:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Francis T - Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice at the University of Cincinnati and Paul—Director of the Centre for Criminal Justice Studies and Prof. of Psychology at the University of New Brunswick at St. John, “Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects,” Criminal Justice, Vol. 3, 2000.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is useful... be 55 percent.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retributive theories of punishment are incompatible with the deterministic nature of human action. **Koehler:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Johann Koehler, [University of Cambridge Research Assistant at the Institute of Criminology. He is currently working on a European Commission-funded project that seeks to develop and strengthen evidence-based practice in criminal justice systems throughout Europe], “What the Rehabilitative Ideal Can Teach Us About the Free Will Delusion,” The Phronetics, January 3rd, 2012.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Last year’s Christmas... basis is misplaced.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under-View Module 2</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Meta review of meta-analysis concludes rehab is better than retribution at preventing crime. **Lipsey and Cullen:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Mark W. Lipsey [Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University], and Francis T. Cullen [Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati], THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CORRECTIONAL REHABILITATION: A REVIEW OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS, Annual Review of Law and Social Science, volume 3, 2007.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This review has... meta-analysis of sanctions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Psychological bias means retributivists will disproportionately punish. **Dripps:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Donald Dripps, “Fundamental Retribution Error: Criminal Justice and the Social Psychology of Blame,” VANDERBILT LAW REVIEW [Vol. 56:1383], 2003.) SM </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">FAE has troubling... of the wrongdoing.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehab is extremely popular. **Krisberg and Marchionna:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Barry Krisberg, PhD Susan Marchionna, "Attitudes of US Voters toward Prisoner Rehabilitation and Reentry Policies," National Council on Crime and Delinquency, April 2006.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By almost an... expressed strong support.</span>

==Negative== 
===Hegel NC=== 
Morality is characterized by the dialectical struggle of social existence. The will actualizes itself in property, which is the only proper grounding for epistemology and freedom. **Steinberger:**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">(Peter J. Steinberger, “Hegel on Crime and Punishment,” The American Political Science Review, Vol. 77, No. 4 (Dec., 1983), pp. 858-870) SM</span>

For Hegel, punishment... least some property.

Crime constitutes an attack on the will. It is both a limitation of someone’s particular property right and the concept of property rights as a whole. Retribution is necessary to reaffirm such rights. **Steinberger 2:**

A world of... of the Right.

The purpose of punishment is not to deter or rehabilitate – both are besides the reaffirmation of the will. Punishment could cause more crime and still be morally necessary. **Steinberger 3:**

Again, the restoration... issue of punishment.

===Emotivism NC=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Morality is a neurologically emotive process. Any realist fact is just an illusion of our emotive phenomenology. **Greene:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Joshua Greene, [Cognitive Neuroscientist and Philosopher, Ph.D., Postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Psychology and Center for the Study of Brain, Mind and Behavior at Princeton University], “From neural ‘is’ to moral ‘ought:” what are the moral implications of neuaroscientific moral psychology? ” Nature Reviews Neuroscience, Volume 4, October, 2003.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As noted above... make moral decisions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Morality must be grounded in our emotive intuitions or it cannot be internally binding or guide action. **Haidt:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Jonathan Haidt, [University of Virginia Philosophy Department], “The Emotional Dog and Its Rational Tail: A Social Intuitionist Approach to Moral Judgment,” Psychological Review, Vol. 108. No. 4, 814-834, 2001.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the 18th... of rationality itself.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard is consistency with emotive expression. I contend that people emotionally prefer retribution because it appeases feelings of fear. **Bowes:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Chris Bowes, “Retribution vs Rehabilitation,” Globe Crime Series, August 18, 2008.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Every time the... devastating our communities.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sympathy is a secondary feeling to the emotive outrage we have towards crime. Retribution is comparatively more consistent with emotional intuition. **Clark:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Tom W. Clark, [Research associate, Institute for Behavioral Health, Heller School, Brandeis University], “Criminal Justice,” Naturalism.org, December, 2001.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But, he points... in some sense.</span>

===Emotivism NC 2.0=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The meta-ethic is expressivism. Normative statements are tied to the attitudes of a speaker. They aren’t descriptive. **Chrisman:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chrisman, Matthew. "Epistemic expressivism." Philosophy Compass 7.2 (2012): 118-126. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In ethical expressivism... motivation to action.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, neuroscience proves that morality is an emotive process. **Greene:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Joshua Greene, [Cognitive Neuroscientist and Philosopher, Ph.D., Postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Psychology and Center for the Study of Brain, Mind and Behavior at Princeton University], “From neural ‘is’ to moral ‘ought:” what are the moral implications of neuaroscientific moral psychology? ” Nature Reviews Neuroscience, Volume 4, October, 2003.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As noted above... make moral decisions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neuroscientific evidence proves that emotions are retributive. **Pardo and Patterson:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Michael Pardo and Dennis Patterson, “Neuroscience Does Not and Should Not Undermine Retributivism,” in the THE FUTURE OF PUNISHMENT, Thomas Nadelhoffer, ed., Oxford University Press. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">He next examines... independent moral truth.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">People don’t care about the negative consequences of punishment or the guilt of the offender. **Carlsmith et al:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kevin M. Carlsmith, John M. Darley [Princeton University] and Paul Robinson [Northwestern University] “Why Do We Punish? Deterrence and Just Deserts as Motives for Punishment,” American Psychological Association, 2002. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, a close... more utilitarian factors.</span>

===Deont NC=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We confer value upon external objects, making our rationality the inviolable source of normativity. **Korsgaard:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Christine Korsgaard, “Two Distinctions in Goodness,” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 92, No. 2 (Apr., 1983), 182.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In order for... ends in themselves.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only retributivism treats persons as rational ends by respecting their will and their right to punishment. **Buchholz:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Todd G. Buchholz, “Punishing Humans,” Thought, Summer 1984, v. 59, p. 283.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In conceiving punishment... a rational being.</span>

===Evolution NC=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Evolution determines morality. **Ruse:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Michael Ruse, “Evolutionary Ethics: A Phoenix Arisen,” Zygon, vo!. 21, no. 1, March 1986.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is a... biological adaptive value.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Natural selection is epistemic. **Ruse 2:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Michael Ruse, Evolutionary Naturalism, Routledge, London, 1995.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I will not...the production of science. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strong evolutionary tendencies favor retribution. **Mackie:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Mackie, J. L., “Morality and the Retributive Emotions,” Criminal Justice Ethics, 1:1. 1982:Winter/Spring, p.3.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Suppose that an... return for benefit.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Anti-Blackness K</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//(Only read against Race ACs)//</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff attempts to end black subjugation through the lens of civil society and social empowerment without rectifying the root cause of such violence. Black prison movements must be rejected because they reinforce hegemonic structures of oppression and endorse the necessity of society. The alternative is to engage in a politics of refusal and disorder, thereby destroying society and truly resolving black antagonism. **Wilderson:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Frank B. Wilderson III, [Associate Professor at UC Irvine’s Department of Drama and African American Studies], “The Prison Slave as Hegemony's (Silent) Scandal,” Social Justice, Vol. 30, No. 2 (92), War, Dissent, and Justice: A Dialogue (2003), pp. 18-27.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Slavery is the... to the death.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Implementation</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Interpretation -** 'ought to be’ entails an ideal without an action or imperative. **Robinson:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Richard Robinson, “Ought and Ought Not,” Philosophy, Vol. 46, No. 177 (Jul., 1971), pp. 193-202.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Many ought-sentences... expressing an ideal.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Standards - </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Textuality</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Predictability</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ground</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drop the aff on T. No RVI. </span>

==Requested Cites== 
===AT MST=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MST causes more recidivism and fails in all circumstances. **Mitchell-Herzfeld et al:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Susan Mitchell-Herzfeld, Therese A. Shady, Janet Mayo, Do Han Kim, Kelly Marsh, Vajeera Dorabawila, Faye Rees, ‘Effects of MST on Recidivism Among Juvenile Delinquents in New York State,’ Office of Children and Family Services, June 2008.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MST was not... not prevent, recidivism.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehab Studies Flawed</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rehab studies have selection bias. They only survey successful offenders. **Leibrich:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Julie Leibrich, “Improving the Success Rate in Follow-up Studies with Former Offenders,” Evaluation Review, v. 18 (5), October 1994, p. 613.) SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Response rates in... actually still offending.</span>

=Nationals 2013= 
==Affirmative== 
===Security AC=== 

==Negative== 
===Empirical NC=== 
No government increases general welfare and public goods beyond their provision under oppressive government. **Peter Leeson:**
(Peter T. Leeson, [Professor of Economics and BB&T Professor for the Study of Capitalism at George Mason University] “Better off stateless: Somalia before and after government collapse,” Journal of Comparative Economics 35 (2007) 689–710. SM)

Somalia remains a... and corrupt state.

Robust international data proves that commerce, property rights, and cooperation have all globally increased under no government. **Peter Leeson 2:**
(Peter T. Leeson, “Anarchy Unbound, or: Why Self-Governance Works Better than You Think,” Cato Unbound, August 6, 2007. SM)

Self-governance, however... institutions themselves.

Governments, particularly oppressive ones, are responsible for the worst tragedies in the history of mankind – war, depression, and environmental destruction. No government prevents these issues and still allows for collaboration. **Fuerle:**
(Richard D. Fuerle, “Three Arguments for Anarchism,” Anarchism.net, Accessed June 10, 2013. SM)

First, let me... should be permitted.

Oppressive governments deny their people foreign aid, key to sustaining and helping underdeveloped regions. Even worse, they use it as a tool to actively oppress and control their citizens. **Easterly and Freschi:**
Easterly and Freschi, November(William and Laura, "Why are we supporting repression in Ethiopia," New York Review of Books, http://www.nybooks.com/blogs/nyrblog/2010/nov/15/why-are-we-supporting-repression-ethiopia/). SM

Foreign aid observers... only “partly free.”

===Equality NC=== 
My value criterion is respecting the fundamental equality of persons because morality mandates that all humans be treated equally. **Stefan Gosepath:**
(Gosepath, Stefan, "Equality", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/equality/>. SM)

Fundamental equality means... be treated alike.

Oppressive government violates a right to equal treatment, and that only no government respects the equality of persons. **Richard Fuerle:**
(Richard D. Fuerle, “Three Arguments for Anarchism,” Anarchism.net, Accessed June 10, 2013. SM)

Thus, since states... be an anarchist.

===Orders NC=== 
Any theory of value cannot let atrocity be seen as permissible. **Jonathan Glover:**
(Glover, Jonathan. Humanity: A moral history of the twentieth century. Yale University Press, 2012. SM)

Not all sceptics... prevent these catastrophes.

**RJ Rummel**[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] estimates that oppressive governments have killed nearly 360 million people in the past century alone. From the gulags of Russia, to the gas chambers of Europe, to the killing fields of Cambodia, oppressive states have perpetrated the worst atrocities in human history.

In response to such oppression, rejecting tyrannical states’ violent rule and endorsing anarchy is the only way to remain non-complicit with evil. Being a part of such a state is being complicit with its actions. **Henry David Thoreau:**
(Henry David Thoreau, [American Author and Philosopher], Civil Disobedience, (1849) Project Gutenberg eBook. 2011. [[http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/71/pg71.txt]]. SM)

It is not... resisting the State?

**He continues:**

If the injustice... convulse the body.

[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]] R.J. Rummel (BA and MA from the University of Hawaii (1959, 1961); Ph.D. in Political Science (Northwestern University, 1963); Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Kappa Phi, Omicron Delta Kappa.; taught at Indiana University (1963), Yale (1964-66), University of Hawaii (1966-1995); now Professor Emeritus of Political Science, University of Hawaii; finalist for 1996 Nobel Peace Prize), Death by Government, 1997

==Requested Cites== 
===AT Somalia=== 
Leeson concedes that his evidence is inconclusive and ignores key facts. **Leeson:**
(Peter T. Leeson, [Professor of Economics and BB&T Professor for the Study of Capitalism at George Mason University] “Better off stateless: Somalia before and after government collapse,” Journal of Comparative Economics 35 (2007) 689–710. SM)

Before considering the... government collapse hypothesis below.

The data used in Leeson's study is made up, and the parts of the country that are doing well are actually under government. **Blattman:**
(Chris Blattman, [Assistant Professor of Political Science & International and Public Affairs at Columbia University] “Is Somalia better off without a government?” August, 2011. SM)

First, I have... state or statelets”.

When the oppressive government fell Somalia descended into mass violence and piracy. **Helfman:**
(Tara Helfman and Dan O’Shea. “Terrorism and Piracy: The New Alliance.” February 2011. http://www.commentarymagazine.com/article/terrorism-and-piracy-the-new-alliance/. SM)

Somalia, a simmering... larger boats for use.
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Miscellaneous</span>= 
===Negative Util=== 
Nonexistence best minimizes suffering – existence is a constant state of desire frustration and pain. **Troxell:**
Mary Troxell, “Arthur Schopenhauer,” Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Boston College, May 11, 2011. SM

Because the will... preferable to existence.

If life were intrinsically pleasurable we would enjoy every moment of it – happiness is just the absence of suffering, so nonexistence is preferable in terms of net-utility. **Schopenhauer:**
Arthur Schopenhauer, The Essays of Arthur Schopenhauer: Studies in Pessimism, Translated by T. Bailey Saunders, January 17, 2004. SM

Life presents itself... Time and Space.

Minimizing suffering is more important than maximizing happiness – the impact turns uniquely solve. **Griffin:**
James Griffin, “Is Unhappiness Morally More Important Than Happiness?,” The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 29, No. 114 (Jan., 1979), pp. 47-55. SM

Karl Popper, I... look into it.

===Negative Util 2.0=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Utilitarian logic impact turns the AC. Death is preferable to existence under a rational hedonistic calculus. **Matson:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wallace I. Matson, “Hegesias the Death-Persuader; Or, the Gloominess of Hedonism,” Philosophy, Vol. 73, No. 286 (Oct., 1998), pp. 553-557. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hegesias was a... one thing: suicide.</span>

Your perceptions of the good are just psychological bias. They're wrong. **Harman:**
Elizabeth Harman, [Princeton University], “Critical Study: David Benatar, Better Never To Have Been," NOUS, 43:4 (2009) 776–785. SM

Benatar acknowledges that... asking this question.

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AT Consequentialism</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(I read analytics in addition to cards.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Well-being is subjective. **Carroll:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sean Carroll, “You Can’t Derive Ought From is,” Preposterous Universe, May 3, 2010. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, there are... to be wrong. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Can’t aggregate. **Carroll 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The big problems... no such experiments.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Self-undermining. **Hooker:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hooker, Brad, "Rule Consequentialism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/consequentialism-rule/ SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There are a... moral decision procedure.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Can’t know consequences. **Dorsey:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dale Dorsey, "Consequentialism, Metaphysical Realism and the Argument from Cluelessness,” Philosophical Quarterly 62 (246): 48-70 (2012). SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, virtually... without a clue.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Can’t obligate. **Norcross:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alastair, (Associate Professor of Philosophy at Rice University), The Scalar Approach to Utilitarianism, Chapter 10, The Blackwell Guide to Mill’s Utilitarianism, Blackwell Publishing, 2006. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A deontologist, as... to do so.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Self-effacing. **Parfit:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Derek Parfit, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">"How C Might Be Self-Effacing." Reasons and Persons, Oxford, 1984, § 17. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to C... Common-Sense Morality.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Repugnant conclusion. **Temkin:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Intransitivity and the Mere Addition Paradox, Larry S. Temkin, Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 16, No. 2 (Spring, 1987), pp. 138-187. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If we were... the outcome better."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Intransitivity. **Norcross:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Intransitivity and the Person-Affecting Principle, Alastair Norcross, Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, Vol. 59, No. 3 (Sep., 1999), pp. 769-776. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I will focus... a moral dilemma.</span>

===AT Kantian Constitutivism=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Agents can always just ask why be subjects</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;"> in the first place. </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Enoch:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shamgency Revisited, David Enoch, Duke University Press. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If it can... its promised payoffs.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If one is only bound by one's will, one isn't bound at all. **Katsafanas:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Paul Katsafanas, Professor of Philosophy at BU, The Problem of Normative Authority in Kant, Hegel, and Nietzsche. SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus, according to... really bound at all.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>