[[toc]]
=Info= 
Cite Requests go to James Elias at james.elias95[at]gmail.com

Niles - James was with Quinn Kelly-Miller
Glenbrooks and Waukesha South - James was with Madeline Budny
=Affirmative= 
==Dignity Mass Transit 1AC== 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention (1) is Inherency</span>=== 
**1)** **Despite 84% of the population living in metropolitan areas, federal support for mass transit infrastructure is declining**
**Regan 7-12** (Ed Regan, 6-7-12, CDM Smith, “Ground Zero: America’s Cities Need New Infrastructure and Transit Funding”, http://cdmsmith.com/en-US/Insights/Funding-Future-Mobility/Exit-3A-Ground-Zero.aspx, 7-12-12)

While underfunding of transportation infrastructure affects both rural and urban systems in virtually all areas
AND
if we adopted a more direct program of user fees for highway use.

===**Contention (2) is Dignity**=== 
**1) People who are homeless and impoverished are treated as invisible – our affirmative attempts to create a relationship between academic discourse and the oppressed**
**Kyle 9**[Ken Kyle, 2009. Assistant professor at California State University. “Contextualizing Homelessness: Critical Theory, Homelessness, and Federal Policy Addressing the Homeless.” Pgs. 2-3]

Peptol's poem and our encounter serve as an excellent introduction to the methodological concerns and
AND
the oppressed person who experiences overt domination in her or his daily life.

**2) The result of this invisibility is a lack of understanding that leads to a dehumanizing fear and disgust surrounding the homeless and impoverished**
**Anawim Christian Community 9** [3/27/9. A coalition to end homelessness. “How the homeless are dehumanized.” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nowheretolayhishead.org/howarethehomelessdehumanized.html]]</span>]

How are the Homeless Dehumanized? Almost every person who is homeless goes through a
AND
being concerned can only come about when we know those who are suffering.

**3) Our attitude towards them represents a dehumanized attitude that justifies structural violence against the homeless and impoverished**
**Maiese 3** (Michelle, philosophy graduate student at the University of Colorado and part of the research staff at the Conflict Research Consortium, //Dehumanization//, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.beyondintractability.org/essay/dehumanization/|www.beyondintractability.org/essay/dehumanization/]]</span>, July 2003, JKE)

Dehumanization is a psychological process whereby opponents view each other as less than human and
AND
norms of behavior regarding one's fellow man seem reasonable, or even necessary.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4) This form of structural violence is among the most deadly – it outweighs war</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gilligan 96</span> [<span class="Site">James Psychiatrist, Former Director of Psychiatry at Massachusetts State Prison, worked in the criminal justice system for many years. M.D Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School]</span>

The deadliest form of violence is poverty. Any approach to a theory of violence
AND
the main cause of behavioral violence on a socially and epidemiologically significant scale.

**5) That dehumanizing violence is the root and proximate cause of conflict – it psychologically primes individuals for exponentially broader violence**
**Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois 4** (Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn) (Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22, JKE)

This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this
AND
including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization).

**6) In response to the call of the homeless and impoverished, we advocate an ethic of human dignity which must be affirmed even in the face of extinction**
**Jovanovic and Wood 4** **–** *Communications/Rhetoric Professors @ Denver University and University of North Carolina respectively (Spoma and Roy, “Speaking from the Bedrock of Ethics,” Philosophy and Rhetoric Vol 37 no 4, 2004, 317-334, dml)

On September 11, 2001, terrorism touched down in the United States. While
AND
the man who is not going anywhere in the heart of an inferno.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">7) All of society shares this same positive obligation to help people impoverished – without action, the impoverished continue to be ignore</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lingis 5</span> (prof philosophy PSU, 2005, Alphonso Lingis, Prof. of Philosophy at Penn State University. 2005, Addressing Levinas Ed. Eric Sean Nelson, Antje Kapust, and Kent Still. Northwestern University Press. Pgs. 98-109)
In facing me, he not only shows himself to be different from me–
AND
suffering of someone of my species with all the resources of the environment.

**8) This is part of the universal responsibility that all individuals and policy makers must uphold to ensure human survival**
**Dalai Lama 93** (Speech given to the United Nations World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna, Austria, June 1993, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.freetibet.org/about/dalai5]]</span>, dml)

“Our world is becoming smaller and ever more interdependent with the rapid growth in
AND
I am just one individual while others are infinite in number and importance.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9) Refusing this universal responsibility is an instance of doubling – accepting the suffering of the poor and impoverished represents a train of thought that allows the state to march towards apocalyptic suicide</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fasching 93A</span> <span class="Site">[Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima : Apocalypse or Utopia? 1993, p. 116-124]</span>

We live in an apocalyptic world that has developed a dangerous collective suicidal consciousness.
AND
that governs human destiny and bring one into conformity with its sacred order.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10) Affirming our responsibility for the atrocity at hand resolves the status quo’s insidious doubling – without this resolution violence will continue to marginalize and dehumanize</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fasching 93B</span> <span class="Site">[Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima” 1993, pgs. 88-92]</span>

For the doctors of Auschwitz, the change from their family and professional environment in
AND
the hell of the closed totalitarian world created by its self-deception.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11) As doubling surrenders to this risk-benefit analysis in the name of survival, we sever our ethical stance and create devalued populations</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bookchin 87</span><span class="Site">[Murray Bookchin is a major spokesperson for the ecology, appropriate technology, and anti-nuclear movements and author of many books, 1987, The Modern Crisis]</span>

What this "benefit-versus-risk" formula has produced, however,
AND
if we do not realize our potentialities to be more than we are.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">12) Divorcing governmental policies from an ethic of human dignity cedes political control to technicism. This magnifies doubling on a global scale, causes serial policy failure, loss of agency and the conditions that make extinction desirable</span>
**Fasching 93C** [Darrell J. Fasching. Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida. “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima”, Pgs. 232-233]

These technological barbarians, says Neuhaus, "are composed of the most sophisticated and
AND
, as an absolute limit to which all sacred orders must be subordinated.
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in urban mass transit infrastructure in the United States.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention (3) is Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">The first sub-point is the Policy</span>**

**1) People will ride mass transit – prior numbers prove**
**Hargreaves 12** - Steve Hargreaves is a staff writer for CNNMoney.com, where he focuses on the energy industry. Previously, Hargreaves lived and worked in Bangkok and Istanbul, freelance writing and teaching English, and has been published in the Village Voice and the Australian Financial Review. He has also worked as a municipal beat reporter at a daily newspaper in Brunswick, Me., and as a freelancer for Portland's alternative weekly covering city politics. Hargreaves holds a B.A. in environmental studies from St. Lawrence University. (Steve, “Mass transit use jumps amid high gas prices”, 6/4/12, CNN Money, http://money.cnn.com/2012/06/04/news/economy/mass-transit-gas-prices/index.htm)//JA//

//NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- Mass transit use jumped 5% in the first//
//AND//
//and vehicles and more predictable schedules help entice commutes back to public transit.//

//**2) Mass transit is key to helping the homeless and impoverished regain social mobility**//
//**Transportation Task Force 6** [September 2006. A Project of the Homeless Alliance of Western New York. “Left Behind: How Difficulties with Transportation are a Roadblock to Self-Sufficiency”. http://www.ppgbuffalo.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/left-behind.pdf]//

//From earlier focus groups with homeless individuals and the workers//
//AND//
//for a housing search could speed placement into permanent housing.//

//**3) Federal mass transit funding for capital expenditures is best – allows the states to give operating assistance**//
//**Gordon 11** – Economic Analyst at Charles River Associates (Michael, “Funding Urban Mass Transit in the United States”, Boston College Economics Honor’s Thesis, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2007981, p. 10, 3-23-11)//AWV

First of all, a correlations test determines that local operating sources are not correlated
AND
be more equipped to give capital assistance while state governments give operating assistance.

**4) Federal support and action is crucial to private sector financing**
**Melaniphy 12** - President & CEO American Public Transportation Association (Michael, Testimony efore The Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, 3/21, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.apta.com/gap/testimony/2012/Pages/120319_SenateTestimony.aspx]]</span>)

APTA’s highest priority continues to be the enactment of a well-funded, multi
AND
, accessibility and economic prosperity, while promoting energy conservation and environmental quality.¶

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The second sub-point is the State</span>

**1) Institutional approaches are crucial to effectively challenge flawed states policies**
**Grossberg 92** [Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 388-389 //liam ]

The demand for moral and ideological purity often results in the rejection of any
AND
reasonably democratic structures of institutionalization, even if they are impure and compromised.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2) Institutionalizing our encounter with the homeless and impoverished is key to massive changes. Political ideology reflects personal ideology</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Morgan 7</span> <span class="Site">[Michael L. Morgan, chancellor's professor emeritus of philosophy and Jewish studies at Indiana University, Discovering Levinas, 2007, pg. 231-2]</span>

Certainly among the most noteworthy features of Levinas’s interviews of the 1980s are his admiration
AND
“all human relationships” presuppose the face-to-face.15

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3) Attempts to reject the state have catastrophic effects for oppressed groups</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Pasha 96</span> [Mustapha Kamal, Professor and Chair of the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Aberdeen, “Security as Hegemony”, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 21, No. 3 (July-Sept. 1996), pp. 283-302, JSTOR]

An attack on the postcolonial state as the author of violence73 and its drive to
AND
more savage and less capable of ad- justing to rhythms dictated by globalization

**4) The state is inevitable – our integration of an ethic of human dignity into our personal ideology helps make the state more ethical**
**Simmons 99** (William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6)

Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State’, 70 Levinas insists that the
AND
to itself, only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure.
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention (4) is Framing</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1) Our responsibility to the homeless and impoverished other is a-priori – we must affirm this ethical stance to create a reorientation of how we view the world</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Davy 7</span> <span class="Site">[Barbara Jane Devy, Ph.D. in religion from Concordia University, Montreal. She has taught courses on religion and ecology at Concordia University and Carleton University, and is past-president of the Environmental Studies Association of Canada, 2007, An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas, Ethics & the Environment 12.1 (2007) 39-65]</span>

For Levinas, the ability of the Other to talk about the world is essential
AND
must invite Others into relation with us, using additional themes of interpretation.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2) The fact that status quo suffering is the product of policy formation necessitates political action– this makes philosophical ethics more pragmatic</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Burns 8 </span>Lawrence, Professor in History of Medicine at the King’s University College at the University of Western Ontario, “Identifying concrete ethical demands in the face of the abstract other: Emmanuel Levinas’ pragmatic ethics”, Philosophy Social Criticism March 2008 vol. 34 no. 3

While we may grant that the face signiﬁes outside of every context and is irreducible
AND
, I will present both the corporeal and expressive elements of the face.

**3) Homelessness will never be solved; however the risk that we help one person means you should still affirm our ethic**
**Sharoky And Weiner 8** [Catherine and Jon, 7/2/08. “Groups take on issues of homeless Talks focus on outreach, plans”, http://www.dailytarheel.com/2.1392/groups-take-on-issues-of-homeless-1.184431]

"As a culture, we have shown an overreliance on the nonprofit sector to
AND
at it, the thing that will make the difference is the people."

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4) Our utopian ethic helps us preserve human dignity and create an incrementally more ethical world</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fasching 93D</span> (Darrell, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima)

Utopians seem to offer vague hopes for some unrealizable fu­ture. Realists want to know
AND
it is passing away" (1 Corinthians 7:30-31).

==Neoliberal Mass Transit 1AC== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">Contention 1: The Status Quo</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1) Despite 84% of the population living in metropolitan areas, federal support for mass transit infrastructure is declining</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Regan 7-12</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ed Regan, 6-7-12, CDM Smith, “Ground Zero: America’s Cities Need New Infrastructure and Transit Funding”, http://cdmsmith.com/en-US/Insights/Funding-Future-Mobility/Exit-3A-Ground-Zero.aspx, 7-12-12)</span>

While underfunding of transportation infrastructure affects both rural and urban systems in virtually all areas
AND
if we adopted a more direct program of user fees for highway use.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2) This is part of a broader neoliberal re-structuring of the urban economy. Decreasing federal support forces localities to generate revenue through increased privatization of public goods</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brenner & Theodore 2</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Neil, Department of Sociology and Metropolitan Studies Program, New York University and Nik, Urban Planning and Policy Program and Center for Urban Economic Development, University of Illinois at Chicago, Cities and the Geographies of “Actually Existing Neoliberalism”, 2002, [[http://www.urbaneconomy.org/sites/default/files/Theodore_%20%0dcitiesandactuallyexistingneoliberalism.pdf|http://www.urbaneconomy.org/sites/default/files/Theodore_ ]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.urbaneconomy.org/sites/default/files/Theodore_%20%0dcitiesandactuallyexistingneoliberalism.pdf|citiesandactuallyexistingneoliberalism.pdf]])</span>

The preceding discussion underscored the ways in which the worldwide ascendancy of neoliberalism during the
AND
aspects of the processes of creative destruction depicted in the table deserve explication.

3) The current financial crisis shows us that American neoliberalism’s desire for expansion will inevitably fail and result in imperialist capitalism which destroy the economy, social sphere and environment – the ultimate impact is genocide
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brie 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Director of the Institute for Social Analysis of the Rosa Luxembourg Foundation, //Ways out of the Crisis of Neoliberalism//, Development Dialogue No. 51, pg. 22-23, [[http://www.dhf.uu.se/pdffiler/DD2009_51_postneoliberalism/Development_Dialogue_51-art3.pdf]], 2009, JKE)</span>

Postneoliberalism can have many faces. Analytically, four possible postneoliberal scenarios can be distinguished
AND
a barbarisation of unleashed imperialist capitalism, which will tip over into genocide.

4) More broadly the deregulation of public goods, has led to impacts including attacks on democracy and exacerbating poverty and societal inequalities – neoliberalism is unleashing the dehumanizing armies of extreme capitalism
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 4</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry A., Global TV Network Chair in Communications at McMaster University in Canada, author of The Abandoned Generation: Democracy Beyond the Culture of Fear, “Public Pedagogy and the Politics of Neo-liberalism: making the political more pedagogical,” Policy Futures in Education, Volume: 2, p. 495 and 496, JS)</span>

Neo-liberalism has become one of the most pervasive and dangerous ideologies of the
AND
Millionaire? or as an advertisement for crass consumerism, like MTV’s Cribs.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">5) This is because neoliberalism requires a logic whereby whole populations are sacrificed as collateral damage to the expansion of markets</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Santos 3</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Boaventura de Sousa, director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra, EUROZINE, COLLECTIVE SUICIDE OR GLOBALIZATION FROM BELOW, [[@http://www.eurozine.com/article/2003-03-26-santos-en.html]])</span>

Sacrificial genocide arises from a totalitarian illusion that is manifested in the belief that there
AND
to pay the health costs of the world's poorest countries for four years.

6) We must prioritize the injustices caused by neoliberalism first – we must condemn disposability because of the suffering it causes – the alternative is the eventual destruction of the planet
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry, Professor of Cultural Studies and Communication at McAllister University, //Beyond the Biopolitics of Disposability: Rethinking Neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age//, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/59080378/Beyond-Bio-Politics-of-Disposability#download|http://www.scribd.com/doc/59080378/Beyond-Bio-Politics-of-Disposability#download]], April 29th 2008, JKE)</span>

Needless to say, invoking hope must be connected to a version of biopolitics in
AND
apathy provide the conditions for political inaction and the atrophy of democratic politics.

===Plan Text=== 
Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in fare free public transit in the United States

===Contention 2: Solvency=== 
1) The plan solves – fare-free transportation systems return mobility to the people as a public good. This improves all transportation infrastructure and opens up new spaces which can resist neoliberal control
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Olsen 7</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dave, Journalist for The Tyee, “Fare-Free Public Transit Could Be Headed to a City Near You”, [[http://www.alternet.org/story/57802/farefree_public_transit_could_be_headed_to_a_%20city_near_you|http://www.alternet.org/story/57802/farefree_public_transit_could_be_headed_to_a_ city_near_you]], 7/26/07, Accessed: 7/12/12] JDO</span>

Recently I met the people who run Island Transit in Whidbey Island, Wash.,
AND
1,223 percent, and ridership continues to go up every day.

2) Fare free mass transit solves – creates a concrete political dialogue for an anti-neoliberal future and allows for other projects to expand proactively
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schein 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rebecca, assistant professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, “Free Transit and Social Movement Infrastructure: Assessing the Political Potential of Toronto’s Nascent Free Transit Campaign,” Alternate Routes: A Journal of Critical Social Research, Volume: 22, p. 115) </span>

The demand for free and accessible public transit has the potential not only to develop
AND
and relationships that might permit us to really depart from the prevailing script.

3) The plan’s creation of urban mass transit as a site of resistance is a part of a broader anti-neoliberal pedagogy that allows resistance of not only neoliberalism, but larger paradigms of social exclusion
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry A. Giroux , Global TV Network Chair Professorship in the Department of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, 10/16/2012 (“Can Democratic Education Survive in a Neoliberal Society?”Truthout, Available online at http://truth-out.org/opinion/item/12126-can-democratic-education-survive-in-a-neoliberal-society, Accessed on 12/27/12, JKE)</span>

If teachers are truly concerned about how education operates as a crucial site of power
AND
means shifting spending priorities in favor of young people and a sustainable democracy.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">4) Public transportation is a lynchpin of this neoliberal strategy – by controlling the movement and structure of the urban environment, privatized infrastructure exacerbates fragmentation and inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Farmer 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephanie Department of Sociology, Roosevelt University, “Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA,” Environment and Planning A, volume 43, pages 1154 ^ 1172)</span>

Public transportation, as one crucial component of a city's transportation network, enables the
AND
the city of Chicago to create new patterns of racial segregation and exclusion.

5) Our speech act is an instance of exposure – our examination of the transportation infrastructure exposes a cog within a larger system of neoliberal injustice – this critical analysis of ideological and economic mechanisms challenges neoliberalism by highlighting disposability politics
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry, Professor of Cultural Studies and Communication at McAllister University, //Beyond the Biopolitics of Disposability: Rethinking Neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age//, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/59080378/Beyond-Bio-Politics-of-Disposability#download|http://www.scribd.com/doc/59080378/Beyond-Bio-Politics-of-Disposability#download]], April 29th 2008, JKE)</span>

Any attempt to address the current biopolitics of neoliberalism and disposability must begin by decoupling
AND
yet unrecycled waste of the global frontier-land’ (p. 138).

6) Neoliberal disposability is sustained by ideological normalization – using policy debate as a pedagogical site of critical resistance gives us individual agency to challenge neoliberalism
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry, Professor of Cultural Studies and Communication at McAllister University, //Beyond the Biopolitics of Disposability: Rethinking Neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age//, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/59080378/Beyond-Bio-Politics-of-Disposability#download|http://www.scribd.com/doc/59080378/Beyond-Bio-Politics-of-Disposability#download]], April 29th 2008, JKE)</span>

Neoliberalism’s politics of disposability not only are maintained merely through disciplinary and regulatory powers,
AND
that fights against the terrors of totalitarianism in its various fundamentalisms and guises.

7) Ontology first – challenging the metaphysical assumptions of the relationship between humans and economic policy is key to political investigation and resistance
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Oksala 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Johanna, Senior Research Fellow in the Academy of Finland research project is Philosophy and Politics in Feminist Theory at the University of Helsinki, November 3rd, “Violence and Neoliberal Governmentality,” Constellations, Volume: 18, Pages 482 and 483)</span>

If we accept my analysis of the relationship between neoliberalism and political violence, however
AND
strategy, and this, paradoxically, remains its appeal and its significance.

8) Ontological views drive the ethics of people’s stance
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parker 99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, University of Keele, Centre for Social Theory and Technology & Department of Management(Martin, 1/1/99, Capitalism, Subjectivity and Ethics: Debating Labour Process Analysis, Organization Studies (Walter de Gruyter GmbH & Co. KG.), Volume: 20, issue 1, Accessed 7/4/12, Pg. 38, LP)</span>

Yet, as I remarked earlier, the oddest thing about these papers is their
AND
hunting dualisms, rooting out certainties, become the stepping stones towards emancipation.

9) Neoliberalism is so thoroughly entrenched in our political imaginations that it has become common sense – we must question neoliberalism prior to genuine political engagement and education
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hofmeyr 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Department of Philosophy, University of Pretoria, 2008 (Dr. A. B. (Benda), “Behind the Ivory Tower: The Public Role of the Intellectual Today,” Phronimon, Volume: 9, 79-81 JS)</span>

But what exactly is neo-liberalism and how did it conquer the world in
AND
7) instead of what Plato calls “the interests of the community”.

10) Questioning traditional notions of how we create policy is key to our intellectual and political development
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Biswas 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Biswas December 2007, (Shampa, Professor of Politics at Whitman College, “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist,” Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 36, No. 1, p. 124)</span>

What Said offers in the place of professionalism is a spirit of ‘amateurism’ –
AND
global’ of global politics. It is to that that I turn next.

==Policy Mass Transit 1AC== 
===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1) Despite 84% of the population living in metropolitan areas, federal support for mass transit infrastructure is declining</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Regan 7-12</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ed Regan, 6-7-12, CDM Smith, “Ground Zero: America’s Cities Need New Infrastructure and Transit Funding”, http://cdmsmith.com/en-US/Insights/Funding-Future-Mobility/Exit-3A-Ground-Zero.aspx, 7-12-12)</span>

While underfunding of transportation infrastructure affects both rural and urban systems in virtually all areas
AND
if we adopted a more direct program of user fees for highway use.

===Contention 2 is Dignity=== 

**1) The daily experiences of people experiencing homelessness challenges us to realize that the root cause of dehumanization is our fear, ignorance and disgust with the other**
**Anawim Christian Community 9** [3/27/9. A coalition to end homelessness. “How the homeless are dehumanized.” http://www.nowheretolayhishead.org/howarethehomelessdehumanized.html]

How are the Homeless Dehumanized? Almost every person who is homeless goes through a
AND
being concerned can only come about when we know those who are suffering.

**2) Dehumanization allows us to justify our violence against the other**
**Maiese 3** (Michelle, philosophy graduate student at the University of Colorado and part of the research staff at the Conflict Research Consortium, Dehumanization, www.beyondintractability.org/essay/dehumanization/, July 2003, JKE)

Dehumanization is a psychological process whereby opponents view each other as less than human and
AND
norms of behavior regarding one's fellow man seem reasonable, or even necessary.

**3) The affirmative represents an attempt to recognize the dignity of the homeless and impoverished – rather than viewing them as the disgusting Other, we attempt to create a relationship between academic discourse and the oppressed**
**Kyle 9** [Ken Kyle, 2009. Assistant professor at California State University. “Contextualizing Homelessness: Critical Theory, Homelessness, and Federal Policy Addressing the Homeless.” Pgs. 2-3]

Peptol's poem and our encounter serve as an excellent introduction to the methodological concerns and
AND
the oppressed person who experiences overt domination in her or his daily life.

**4) Our affirmation of human dignity through public policy prevents serial policy failure, doubling on a global scale, loss of agency and the conditions that make extinction desirable**
**Fasching 93** [Darrell J. Fasching. Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida. “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima”, Pgs. 232-233]

These technological barbarians, says Neuhaus, "are composed of the most sophisticated and
AND
, as an absolute limit to which all sacred orders must be subordinated.

**5) We have an obligation to assist the helpless other even in the face of extinction**
**Jovanovic and Wood 4** – *Communications/Rhetoric Professors @ Denver University and University of North Carolina respectively (Spoma and Roy, “Speaking from the Bedrock of Ethics,” Philosophy and Rhetoric Vol 37 no 4, 2004, 317-334, dml)

On September 11, 2001, terrorism touched down in the United States. While
AND
the man who is not going anywhere in the heart of an inferno.

**6) Pure consequentialism is impossible – there are too many reactions that are unforeseeable – as an alternative, we suggest a view of morals. This is because we can understand the virtue of an action but we can never understand the consequences**
**Lenman 2000** Univeristy of Glasglow and the United Kingdom Arts and Humanities Research Board.Consequentialism and Cluelessness Author(s): James Lenman Reviewed work(s): Source: Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Autumn, 2000), pp. 342-370 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2672830 . Accessed: 24/07/2012 09:53

A typical morally significant action will have a host of consequences that are neither foreseen
AND
with visible consequences. And such a story would precisely not be consequentialist.

**7) Urban mass transit is the best way to create jobs**
**Tomer et al 12** (Adie Tomer, Elizabeth Kneebone, Robert Puentes, and Alan Berube Missed Opportunity: Brookings Institute, May 2012 Transit and Jobs in Metropolitan America http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2011/5/12%20jobs%20and%20transit/0512_jobs_transit.pdf)

More immediately, transportation matters for establishing a broad-based economic recovery. Improving
AND
traffic congestion, and reduce the costs of their commutes relative to driving.

**8) Public investment in urban mass transit is key to increase living standards**
**Bivens 12**
(Josh Bivens, April 18, 2012 (Ph.D., Economics, New School for Social Research
B.A., Economics, University of Maryland at College Park, Research fellow at the Economic Policy Institute)
http://www.epi.org/publication/bp338-public-investments/)

Public investment by federal, state, and local governments builds the nation’s capital stock
AND
and again in the late 1990s requires a substantial increase in public investments.

**9) Mass transit is key to helping the poor and homeless get to job and housing opportunities**
**Transportation Task Force 6** [September 2006. A Project of the Homeless Alliance of Western New York. “Left Behind: How Difficulties with Transportation are a Roadblock to Self-Sufficiency”. http://www.ppgbuffalo.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/left-behind.pdf]

From earlier focus groups with homeless individuals and the workers who directly serve them,
AND
place to place for a housing search could speed placement into permanent housing.

**10) While homelessness can never be completely solved, the risk that we can help even one person means you affirm in the name of dignity**
**Sharoky And Weiner 8** [Catherine and Jon, 7/2/08. “Groups take on issues of homeless Talks focus on outreach, plans”, http://www.dailytarheel.com/2.1392/groups-take-on-issues-of-homeless-1.184431]

"As a culture, we have shown an overreliance on the nonprofit sector to
AND
at it, the thing that will make the difference is the people."

===Contention 3 is Biodiversity=== 

**1) Status quo focus on roads causes urban sprawl**
**Pollard 4** – Senior Attorney and Director, Land and Community Program at Southern Environmental Law Center (Trip, “Article: Follow the money: transportation investments for smarter growth,” Temple Environmental Law & Technology Journal, Spring, 2004, 22 Temp. Envtl. L. & Tech. J. 155)//AWV//

//Greater analysis and scrutiny should be given to numerous aspects of transportation infrastructure decisions in//
//AND//
//to reach any particular destination and more direct routes for pedestrians and cyclists.//

//**2) Urban sprawl is the largest cause of biodiversity and habitat loss**//
//**Johnson and Klemens 5** Director, Metropolitan Conservation Alliance, Wildlife Conservation Society (Elizabeth A. and Michael W., “Nature in Fragments”, 19)//DD

Patterns of development associated with sprawl lead directly to habitat loss and fragmentation, with
AND
, and approximately 10 percent of this area is covered with impervious surfaces.

**3) Loss of biodiversity causes extinction**
**Straits Times 7** (The Straits Times, Nirmal Ghosh, Thailand Correspondent, November 16, 2007)

They concluded that more than 16,000 are in danger of becoming extinct -
AND
are often not seen or fully recognised until it is too late.'

**4) Extinction through the loss of biodiversity is the largest impact in round**
**Tobin 90** (Richard Tobin, Associate Professor of Political Science at SUNY-Buffalo, 1990, The Expendable Future: U.S. Politics and the Protection of Biological Diversity, p. 13-14)

Every time a human contributes to a species’ extinction, a range of choices and
AND
essential. The chapters that follow evaluate that response in the United States.

**5) Independently, sprawl disrupts photosynthesis which causes extinction**
**Chandler 2000** (Lynn, Goddard Space Flight Center, “Urban Sprawl Reduces Annual Photosynthetic Production”, 2-21, http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Newsroom/view.php?id=20890)

According to Imhoff's research, urbanization and industrialization have resulted in the development of mega
AND
the capacity of the landscape to carry out photosynthesis is substantially reduced. "

===Contention 4 is Racism=== 

**1) Status quo transit policy causes decentralization of American Cities**
**Knaap et al. 12**, professor and executive director at University of Maryland, Gerrit Knaap et al., professor and executive director at University of Maryland, “Government Policy and Urban Sprawl,” http://dnr.state.il.us/orep/pfc/balancedgrowth/pdfs/government.pdf, DOA: 6-24-12

The influence of the federal government on urban development patterns via transportation policies and programs
AND
is a major factor in the decentralization of U.S. cities.

**2) Furthermore this change in spatial layout and lack of urban transit funding has resulted in inherently racist city planning – segregation and separation have become the norm**
**Bullard et al. 4** (Robert D. Bullard, Glenn S. Johnson, and Angel O. Torres, Publish 2004, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 3-5 :)

Transportation systems do not spring up out of thin air. They are planned and
AND
? These and other transportation questions and issues are addressed in this book.

**3) You must reject racism – it’s a decision rule**
**Barndt 91** (co-director of Crossroads (a ministry to dismantle racism), (Joseph, Dismantling Racism, p. 155-156)

To study racism is to study walls. We have looked at barriers and fences
AND
of the world and ourselves, we dare not allow it to continue.

**4) This type of brick by brick action is a crucial step to ending racism as a whole**
**Robinson 2000** (Randall Robinson, 2000, Harvard law Grad, political activist, author, “The debt : what America owes to Blacks”, pg 123)

To many, the story may initially seem out of place because it is foreign
AND
than a convenient legal fiction or hiding place for anonymous and rapacious interests.

===Plan:=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in urban mass transit infrastructure in the United States.**

===Contention 5 is Solvency=== 
**1) People will ride mass transit – prior numbers prove**
**Hargreaves 12** - Steve Hargreaves is a staff writer for CNNMoney.com, where he focuses on the energy industry. Previously, Hargreaves lived and worked in Bangkok and Istanbul, freelance writing and teaching English, and has been published in the Village Voice and the Australian Financial Review. He has also worked as a municipal beat reporter at a daily newspaper in Brunswick, Me., and as a freelancer for Portland's alternative weekly covering city politics. Hargreaves holds a B.A. in environmental studies from St. Lawrence University. (Steve, “Mass transit use jumps amid high gas prices”, 6/4/12, CNN Money, http://money.cnn.com/2012/06/04/news/economy/mass-transit-gas-prices/index.htm)//JA//

//NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- Mass transit use jumped 5% in the first//
//AND//
//and vehicles and more predictable schedules help entice commutes back to public transit.//

//**2) Federal funding key to reversing urban sprawl**//
//**Gordon 11** – Economic Analyst at Charles River Associates (Michael, “Funding Urban Mass Transit in the United States”, Boston College Economics Honor’s Thesis, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2007981, p. 10, 3-23-11)//AWV

The federal government must apportion a significant amount of resources to help sustain urban mass
AND
the government to increase tolls to reflect the true values of road usage.

**3) Mass transit focus is reverse causal – ending road focus leads to high density urban planning and more efficient land use patterns**
**Giuliano 4** (Genevieve, “The Geography of Urban Transportation: Chapter 9, Land Use Impacts of Transportation Investments”, August 6, 2004)//DD//

//The ability of transportation investments to shape or influence urban structure is also a widely//
//AND//
//of urban sprawl, meaning low-density, dispersed land use patterns.//

//**4) Federal support and action is crucial to private sector financing**//
//**Melaniphy 12** - President & CEO American Public Transportation Association (Michael, Testimony efore The Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, 3/21, http://www.apta.com/gap/testimony/2012/Pages/120319_SenateTestimony.aspx)//

//APTA’s highest priority continues to be the enactment of a well-funded, multi//
//AND//
//, accessibility and economic prosperity, while promoting energy conservation and environmental quality.¶//

//**5) Federal funding for capital expenditures is best – allows the states to give operating assistance**//
//**Gordon 11** – Economic Analyst at Charles River Associates (Michael, “Funding Urban Mass Transit in the United States”, Boston College Economics Honor’s Thesis, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2007981, p. 10, 3-23-11)//AWV

First of all, a correlations test determines that local operating sources are not correlated
AND
be more equipped to give capital assistance while state governments give operating assistance.

**6) While the state isn’t the best – Institutional approaches are crucial to effectively challenge flawed states policies**
**Grossberg 92** [Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 388-389 //liam ]

The demand for moral and ideological purity often results in the rejection of any
AND
reasonably democratic structures of institutionalization, even if they are impure and compromised.

**7) The state is inevitable – our obligation is to make it as ethical as possible**
**Simmons 99** (William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6)

Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State’, 70 Levinas insists that the
AND
to itself, only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure.

=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===China Fund=== 
**Text: The People’s Republic of China should give the necessary funds to the United States federal government under the condition that the United States federal government <Insert plan text> with those funds.**

**1) The counterplan competes – tests ‘its’ in the resolution – refers to possession and the necessity of U.S. investment**

**2) Also severs certainty – the world of the counterplan reserves the possibility of the U.S. saying no – aff certainty is key to avoid aff conditionality which means they can no link out of any DA – crushes ground**

**3) The counterplan solves 100% of the case – it’s popular in both the U.S. and China**
**Richter 11** – Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center, JD – University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow. “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, March 16, http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039)

Many Americans might be surprised to hear that this state of affairs leaves China's top
AND
of the entire world economy. Let's hope that outcome can be avoided.”

**4) The counterplan solves unemployment – and it independently prevents China from selling U.S. debt-based treasuries**
**Reuters 11** – largest news agency in Europe, (“China may channel reserves to U.S. infrastructure –minister”, Reuters, December 12, 2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/12/02/china-us-investment-idUSL4E7N224M20111202)//JKahn//

//Dec 2 (Reuters) - China may channel part of its huge pool of//
//AND//
//concerns about China's protection of intellectual property rights and its government procurement policies.//

//**5) Chinese bond selling destroys the economy more than a nuclear strike**//
//**Williams 4** – senior staff writer for the Asia Times, (Ian, “China-US: Double bubbles in danger of colliding,” Asia Times, 1/23/04, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/FA23Dj01.html_)//JKahn

What happens when two bubbles collide? Do they both burst, or do they
AND
economy more than any nuclear strike the Chinese could manage at the moment.

**6) Collapse from Chinese bond-selling spills over globally**
**Wharton 9** – Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, (“Is the World Losing Faith in the U.S. Dollar?” 9/2/09, http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2332)//JKahn

As the global economy appears headed toward recovery, concerns are growing that the United
AND
in U.S. government securities and other dollar-denominated reserves.

==Disadvantages== 
===Court Capital=== 
1) Kennedy will strike out a middle ground now in Fisher v. Texas now—voting against Texas but saving Affirmative Action overall
Allen Rostron, 2012 (Professor of Law, University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Law, “AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, JUSTICE KENNEDY, AND THE VIRTUES OF THE MIDDLE GROUND,” Lexis/Nexis, Accessed 7/25/2012, rwg)
While it thus seems likely that the University of Texas policy will be struck down
AND
in the individualized determinations about what school a particular student would attend. n29

2) Decisions that anger powerful social movements will cause the Court to make decisions that realign themselves with that movement—if the Court angers Conservatives, they’ll do something to get back in their good graces
Richard H. Fallon, Jr., Professor of Constitutional Law, Harvard Law School, April 2005 [“Legitimacy and the Constitution,” [[http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe/document?_m=be00e4b6d189ddb647d9365044a5571c&_docnum=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkVb&_md5=7105aae1669b5f945e6a9318b42fc69d]], rwg]
Among other things, the public's belief that the Supreme Court is a legitimate institution
AND
influenced by popular political movements and by the evolving attitudes of their society.

3) Conservatives want to overturn Affirmative Action—returning the US back to the Jim Crow era
Cho, professor, DePaul University College of Law, 2005 (Sumi, University of Pennsylvania Journal of Constitutional Law, February, 2005, 7 U. Pa. J. Const. L. 809; Lexis)
Affirmative action proponents must give them their due. Conservatives have been amazingly productive and
AND
whiteness to its full pre-civil rights, Jim Crow value. n127

4) Affirmative action is key to military readiness
TODD NICHOLS, 3/24/2003 (staff writer, “Don't undo good done by affirmative action,” [[http://www.seattlepi.com/news/article/Don-t-undo-good-done-by-affirmative-action-1110489.php]], rwg)
The Bush administration has decided to support the plaintiffs in this effort despite the fact and
readiness as well as our nation's greatest civil rights success story.

5) Readiness solves nuclear war
Kagan, 2007 (Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html]])
The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations
AND
between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic.

===Elections=== 
1) Obama winning now, polls, battlegrounds, and time left in the race
Duvall, 9/12/12 (Eric, “DUVALL: Odds decreasing for a Romney win,” [[http://tonawanda-news.com/opinion/x2076994356/DUVALL-Odds-decreasing-for-a-Romney-win]])

Fellow obsessive poll watchers have noted a gravitational pull to the 50 percent mark for
AND
, Romney will find himself a considerable underdog in the campaign’s final month.

2) Plan is political suicide – perception of wasteful spending and lack of public support
Orski ‘12
Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears

Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

3) Triggers election backlash - Public opposition growing and GOP base hates it
Reinhardt, 12
William, Founder Public Works Financing, Engineering News Record, 2/27, lexis

Peter Ruane, CEO of the American Road and Transportation Builders Association, calls Washington
AND
industry from the political operatives who promise subsidy but deliver mainly invoices. ?

4) An Obama loss ensures pre-emptive strikes on Iran
Traub 12 (James, New York Times Contributor, "Foreign Affairs," Jan/ Feb 2012, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=3|www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=3#]])

For all Obama’s efforts, his Iran policy is at best a qualified success;
AND
. could thus pay a very grave price for a relatively modest gain.

5) Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for nuclear war, CBW use and terrorist attacks
Russell 9 (James A. Russell, managing editor of Strategic Insights, the quarterly ejournal published by the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School, Spring 2009, Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East, Security Studies Center)

Iran’s response to what would initially start as a sustained stand-off bombardment (
AND
U.S. massive response – a potential “Armageddon” scenario.

===Wages=== 
**1) Wage inflation slow now**
**Wall Street Journal 8/3/12** ("Economists Reaft: One Step Forward After Three Steps Back."blogs.wsj.com/economics/2012/08/03/economists-react-one-step-forward-after-three-steps-back/)

The slowing in average hourly earnings in July appeared to reflect compositional shifts in employment
AND
even if has been centered in lower-wage industries in recent months.

**2) The Davis-Bacon Act ensures infrastructure projects create artificially high wages**
**Bronars 12** (Steven, Senior Economist in the Washington DC office of Welch Consulting. 2/21/12. "Infrastructure Spending and the Davis-Bacon Act. Bronars Economics. sbronars.wordpress.com/tag/stimulus/)

It’s been three years since the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was signed into law
AND
that fewer projects will be completed for each billion dollars budgeted for infrastructure.

**3) That destroys the economy**
**Reynolds 2** (Alan, senior fellow at the CATO Institute internationally syndicated economist. Aug 25, 2002.“Supply-Side Goes to Harvard.” CATO Institute, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/supplyside-goes-harvard]])

Alesina found that "labor taxes have the largest negative impact on profits and investment
AND
in newly prosperous countries such as Ireland and Russia. It always works.

**4) Economic decline causes global war**
**Auslin 9** – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/100044)

As they deal with a collapsing world economy, policymakers in Washington and around the
AND
types of miscalculation and greed that have destroyed international systems in the past.


==Kritiks== 
===Introna=== 
1) The affirmative plan represents a technological fix to worldly problems which creates an artificial difference between humans and non-humans
Introna 10 (Lucas, Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University, “The ‘Measure of a Man’ and the Ethos of Hospitality: Towards an Ethical Dwelling with Technology”, AI and Society Vol 25 no 1, pg 93-102, dml)

When referring to an ‘ethics of technology’ or an ‘ethics of the artiﬁcial’
AND
and politics. I will return to this matter in the next section.

2) That spills over to how we view things that aren't technology. This leads to viewing the rest of the world as useless and disposal which is why genocides and violence occur
Introna 10 (Lucas, Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University, “The ‘Measure of a Man’ and the Ethos of Hospitality: Towards an Ethical Dwelling with Technology”, AI and Society Vol 25 no 1, pg 93-102, dml)

The ﬁnal step in his defence, which draws on the ﬁrst two, is
AND
own terms the very concealing of other possibilities for being itself becomes concealed.

3) The alternative is to reject the 1AC’s value judgments and instead value everything as needing equal consideration
Introna 10 (Lucas, Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University, “The ‘Measure of a Man’ and the Ethos of Hospitality: Towards an Ethical Dwelling with Technology”, AI and Society Vol 25 no 1, pg 93-102, dml)

Instead of creating value systems in our own self-image, the absolute otherness
AND
, in its otherness? This is what I will no turn to.

===Policing=== 
1) Voting aff destroys creativity – it merely replaces white supremacy. Their ideal form of debate is the same kind of stagnant, rotting, unreflexive image of thought they criticize.
Jeanes ‘5
(Emma L. Jeanes, Lecturer, University of Exeter and Christian De Cock, Professor of Management, Swansea University, “MAKING THE FAMILIAR STRANGE: A DELEUZIAN PERSPECTIVE ON CREATIVITY,” http://www.iacat.com/revista/recrearte/recrearte03/Familiar_Strange.pdf, 2005, p. 4-8)

This process of becoming, the creation of what is not yet, is achieved
AND
this grounding of our thinking that would otherwise prevent us from thinking creatively.

2) This both turns and solves the case better because good and bad are not binary. They wrongly think it’s a zero-sum power struggle between white and blacks, a fight between two sides – the police and the policed. The struggle of 21st century politics is not a struggle oriented around race; rather, it is the very concept of race which has come to inhibit and constrain radical politics. The affirmative’s deployment of the concept of race as the organizational focus of political struggle is a smokescreen which obscures the dynamics of oppression – the very deployment of race as a concept itself is the lynchpin of racialized oppression.
Darder and Torress 4 (Antonia Darder, Prof of education policy studies at U of Illinois, and Rodolfo Torress, Associate prof of latino studies at UC Irvine, After Race: Racism after multiculturalism, p. 1-2)

Over a century ago, W E. B. Du Bois in The Souls
AND
, colonized, or marked for genocide in the course of world history.

3) However, the problem isn’t that the police are winning this fight – the problem is that we conceive of debate as a fight at all. The reason we can even have a concept of “supremacy” in the first place is because debate at all accepts the ability to be governed by a single image of thought.
MacDonald ‘9
(Michael MacDonald, Postdoctoral Fellow @ the University of Alberta, “Deleuze and the Wild”, http://halfsharpmusic.wordpress.com/2009/11/30/deleuze-and-the-wild/)

And this reaction is the creation of difference, or hierachy, and of the
AND
with contemporary ecology than one may think. Free creativity is the wild.

4) Voting isn’t between contents, that is, to choose white supremacy or another form of supremacy, it’s between modes – whether to choose an identity at all or to refuse that any identity should govern debate. Voting aff just installs them as the new cops of the community, “forcing us to perform,” or “forcing us to look at our social location” and arresting those who don’t comply through the judge’s ballot.
<No Card>

5) There is also no coherent way for non-blacks to participate in their movement because they can’t just ‘take off’ their knapsack of privileges. This perpetuates exclusions and guarantees the failure of their movement.
McWhorter 5 (Ladelle McWhorter, University of Richmond, “Where do white people come from? A Foucaultian critique of Whiteness Studies,” Philosophy Social Criticism 2005 31: 533)

It is true then that, as the Whiteness Studies theorists so often say,
AND
is testament to how deeply and profoundly stuck race theorists typically still are.

6) Rather, debate should be a zone of open speech of any kind, allowing infinite lines of flight with no boundaries. This isn’t liberal-democratic switch-side, but eternal open evolution of the process of debate itself. Vote negative to endorse an exterior mode of debate.
Paul Patton, Professor of Philosophy @ the University of New South Wales, 1984, “Conceptual Politics and the War Machine in ‘Mille Plateaux’,” JSTOR.

This choice is stated in several ways in the course of Mille Plateaux.2
AND
constant in Mille Plateaux; it is precisely the life of the concept.

===Security=== 
**1) Framing governmental support for infrastructure in terms of security legitimizes violence and wholesale destruction in the name of disciplinary control while framing humanity in terms of logistical life**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Reid 8 </span>**(Julian – lecturer in International Relations at King’s College, visiting professor in International Relations at the University of Lapland, “Conclusion: The Biopolitics of Critical Infrastructure Protection,” Securing ‘the Homeland:’ Critical Infrastructure, Risk and (In)Security, Ed. Myriam Dunn Cavelty and Kristian Soby Kristensen, p. 178-179)

Therefore, the contemporary reification of critical infrastructure as an object for protection owes a
AND
creates important openings for the further exploration of such a line of questioning.
**2) The dream of security produces apocalypse– //constructions// of existential risk produce the annihilation they are meant to escape**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peter </span>**<span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 12pt;">Coviello</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, </span>**<span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 12pt;">2k </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[//Queer Frontiers//, p. 39-40]</span>
Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at present decisively postnuclear is not
AND
or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.
**3) Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mark </span>**<span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 12pt;">200**8**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [//Critique of Security//, 185-6]</span>
The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is
AND
; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift."'


=Round Reports= 
==Niles== 
===Round 2 VS New Trier KS=== 
1NC: Elections DA
Topicality
Introna K
ASpec
Case
2NR: Introna
===Round 3 VS Glenbrooks North BM=== 
1NC: Elections DA
Topicality
Introna K
ASpec
Case
2NR: Elections and Case
===Round 6 VS East Kentwood KS=== 
1NC: Policing K
Court Capital DA
OSpec
Case
2NR: Policing
==Whitefish Bay== 
===Round 2 VS Sheboygan South FL=== 
1NC: Wages DA
Elections DA
Introna K
Case
2NR: Wages and Case
===Round 3 VS Sheboygan South CR=== 
1NC: Framework
Civil Disobedience DA
Discussion Forum CP
Case
2NR: Civil Disobedience and Discussion Forum
==Rufus King== 
===Round 1 VS West Bend HW=== 
1NC: Introna K
Wages DA
Elections DA
Case
2NR: Wages and Case

<Aff for last three rounds>
==Brookfield East== 
===Round 1 VS Mukwanago LP=== 
1NC: Topicality
China Fund CP
Wages DA
Elections DA
Case
2NR: Elections and Case
===Round 3 VS Appleton West DB=== 
1NC: China Fund CP
Elections DA
Wages DA
Case
2NR: Elections and Case
===Semifinals VS Mukwanago PP=== 
1NC: Topicality
Security K
Wages DA
China Fund CP
Case
2NR: Security and Case
==Cedarburg== 
===Round 1 VS Cedarburg GS=== 
1NC: Double Bind
Security K
Elections DA
Case
2NR: Double Bind and Elections

<Aff Last Two Rounds>
==West Bend== 
===Round 2 VS Sheboygan South RJ=== 
1NC: Wages DA
Elections DA
Security K
Case
2NR: Elections

<Aff Round 1 and 3>
==Waukesha South== 
===Round 1 VS Mukwanago BR=== 
1NC: Topicality
Diplomatic Capital DA
Wages DA
Security K
Case
2NR: Diplomatic Capital and Case
===Round 4 VS Neenah CK=== 
1NC: Wages DA
Grid DA
Case
2NR: Wages and Case
===Round 5 VS Mukwanago DP=== 
1NC: Wages DA
Transportation Planning K
Case
2NR: Transportation Planning and Case
==Glenbrooks== 
===Round 2 VS Bronx Science DG=== 
1NC: Public-Private Partnerships CP
Diplomatic Capital DA
Security K
Case
2NR: Public-Private Partnerships and Diplomatic Capital
===Round 3 VS St. Ignatius BP=== 
1NC: Wages DA
Diplomatic Capital DA
Security K
Case
2NR: Security and Case
===Round 5 VS Phoenix Military Academy RT=== 
1NC: Friere K
Diplomatic Capital DA
Case
2NR: Friere and Case
==NAUDLs== 
===Round 2 VS Henry Grady CH=== 
1NC: DnG K
Wages DA
Security K
China CP
Case
2NR: DnG and Case
===Round 3 VS East Side High MR=== 
1NC: Fare Free CP
Forum CP
Framework
Case
2NR: Framework and Forum
===Round 5 VS Whitney Young PV=== 
1NC: DnG K
China CP
Wages DA
Security K
Case
2NR: Wages and Case
===Octas VS Newark Science MS=== 
1NC: T - Investment =/= Operational
Roleplaying K
Wages DA
China CP
Visibility K
Case
2NR: Roleplaying, Visibility and Case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]