[[media type="youtube" key="BWSE5OijNQg?feature=player_detailpage" height="360" width="640"]]

Thank you Lani Frazer..


=Speaker Positions= 
2A- Kris
2N - Olivia
For any questions or links to whatever
Kris - colen.kris@gmail.com
Olivia [[mailto:-livvylounielsen@gmail.com|-livvylounielsen@gmail.com]]

- Love Nevada Union CN <3
[[toc]]
=1AC Stanford= 

Contention 1: This is who we are

I come from Nevada County. A place located in the Foothills of the Sierra Nevada’s and consisting of two main towns, Nevada City and Grass valley. We are decidedly rural. Our roads and houses and shrouded by the mass forests that surround and we are over an hour away from the nearest city. I hope you visit sometime for it is truly a special place. The Yuba river represents our cultural mekka, a place we cherish and peacefully coexist with. We have an incredible community of artists and a supportive and caring population of genuine people. We have two public high schools; I attend the larger of the two, Nevada Union. Our relationship with debate is a testament to the power of human engagement and commitment. Through a totally random event , we came across our current coach, Stephen Goldberg. He has been driving an hour up to our little mountain town to help some kids pro bono for 15 years. All while being a legal aid lawyer and trombonist. Without this, we would be like most rural schools, doing stock issues debate in our local leagues without knowing what else was possible or having the ability to compete with it. Our location and budget issues would make competing impossible without a dedicated group of parents and the past successes of Nevada Union teams leading the way.

But have you Ever heard of Nevada Union before? Hint: it’s not in Nevada, though its understandable that everyone just assumes that it is. After all, we are just some hillbilly backwater, so there’s no need to get into uber- specific stuff like what state we are from.
Moreover, there’s no need to remember, I suppose, that Nevada County predates the state of Nevada by a good ten years, that our town is where the gold rush began. It hardly bears notice that it is a vibrant place full of art and culture. Forget our Pulitzer prize winning poets, world-famous musicians, international film festivals, and stunning natural beauty because we don’t have a shopping mall. Our rural identity means that we will always have to confront the assumption that we are just dumb hicks. After all, we talk funny sometimes and we don’t get your Sex in the City references.

This is personal for us in the context of Transportation – Kris when he was just 12 years old lived in the small town of North San Juan where his family recently was overcoming the death of his mother fell low on finances and couldn’t afford a car – there was only one bus going from this small town of only 100 people to the closest town with a grocery store only one time a week. Myself on the other hand face another very emotional personal story – my father diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease needed to attend appointments in the bay area, approximately 3 and ½ hours away and because there was not a professional department for his treatment in our rural area, we had to drive multiple hours, multiple times, to attend these appointments – these personal stories of rural areas make it aware that the necessities needed for one to survive are not always offered in rural areas. We won’t make the argument that urban cities are always filled with necessities because that’s not true – but rural areas face a much larger disadvantage when it comes to those necessities. <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our rural community, like so many others, faces a shrinking population and therefore shrinking tax base. With state funds wrapped up in securing the urban prison-industrial complex, our school was forced to lay off a dozen teachers. We can’t get a debate coach to come run our program because there’s no job security and certainly not the resources of a wealthy suburban district. Any kind of curricular enrichment is cut first. Turns out, there’s some evidence that we aren’t alone. </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">We have to drive nearly everywhere we go. We have no school debate budget. The only reason we have a coach is because our parents pay his salary. The amount of tournaments we attend is severely limited because we just don’t have the transportation to get there. We sit through 14 hour car rides to vegas just get to a bid tournament, and we can’t go to many because we’re limited to regional tournaments, which, as seems hella obvious by now, really aint much.</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Debra Basset Goes on to explain.</span>
Basset Debra Lyn Bassett, Associate Professor of Law Michigan State University-DGL College of law. J.D. 1987, UC Davis School of Law; M.S. 1982, San Diego Stale Universiry: B.A. 1977. University of Vermont. “Ruralism,” Originally published in IOWA LAW REVIEW 88 IOWA L. REV. 273 (2003)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rural education</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and post-college employment</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">also suffer as a result of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 156 our society's </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">urban focus</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The impact of</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ruralism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> upon education </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">is found at all levels</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">---elementary education through post-secondary</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">education-as well as</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in subsequent post-college </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">employment opportunities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 1. Ruralism and Education Ruralism impacts education in several ways. One prominent impact stems, of course, from rural poverty.157 Indeed, it can be tempting to blame poverty for all problems in rural education. However, although poverty is certainly a contributing factor, it does not provide a full explanation. If poverty alone rendered schools inadequate, all "quality" schools would be schools with strong financial resources-yet this is not the case. For example, of the 264 schools selected as "Blue Ribbon Schools" in 2001, only five percent were rural schools, rendering rural schools grossly underrepresented in proportion to their numbers-yet forty-six percent of those schools selected as "Blue Ribbon Schools" were low-income schools.158 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The indirect impact of rural poverty</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">upon rural education</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">is overshadowed by the direct impact that results</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">from how rural education is funded-and it is</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">in this area that ruralism plays a central role.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Most states rely on local property taxes as the source of funding for education. But using</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">local property taxes</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">as the sole educational funding source</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">will inherently and necessarily discriminate against rural areas, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">which have a lower tax base due to fewer residences and commercial properties.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Adding to this problem, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">most</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">school fundingformulas are based on average daily enrollment.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">159</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rural schools, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">which by definition</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">enroll fewer students, have little choice but to cut programs and staff, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">or alternatively, to consolidate with one or more other schools.160 Thus, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the common methods for funding public</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">education inherently benefit urban schools and discriminate against rural schools. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The combination of rural poverty and the reduced tax base in rural areas results in a double whammy against rural education. Moreover, rural schools tend to be modeled after urban schools.161 This model dooms rural schools to inferiority, because rural schools typically are unable to provide the educational resources available in urban areas: Schools in such rural locales often have difficulty providing educational resources equal to those offered by more affluent cities and towns. And communities surrounding such schools frequently lack active parents and community groups to support the goals of schooling. The Children's Defense Fund (CDF) summarized a number of data-based studies related to rural children "at risk." The CDF argued that, compared with schools in much of metropolitan America, rural schools suffer from weaknesses that critically affect their students. For example, the CDF notes that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">most</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">rural states have minimal cost-equalization</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">formulas based</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">on population density. This</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">means that poor and rural districts</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">must rely on local taxes to equalize expenditures, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">which leads to significant funding inequities</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. These inequities typically translate into fewer mathematics and/or advanced placement courses in rural high schools, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">fewer programs for gifted and talented children, fewer alternative school programs, fewer programs for pregnant teenagers, and sometimes even the failure to provide transportation to and from school.</span> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the impact of economic factors in rural education</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">small 163 rural population bases tend to result in geographic and cultural isolation.Rural teachers, principals, and administrators are paid less than those in urban areas, and rural areas often have greater difficulty recruiting 164 teachers.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The geographical isolation inherent in the most remote rural locations results in professional isolation as well. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition, due to decreased financial resources, teachers often are expected to teach outside of their areas of certification</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">165</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">resulting in depleted human resources and, ultimately, substandard education. </span>


Now what is it like to live in a rural area like Nevada City and Grass Valley? We went out to our community and asked them. One community Member said “ takes [ed] forever to get anywhere. Especially from where I live. We have no major shopping industries in our town. We have to drive to Roseville or sac. Prices can get inflated here and we are forced to pay them or drive to a neighboring town in order to find lower prices. There are very few recreational activities for teenagers. This is a retirement community mostly.” people from our town realize that ruralism exists our spillover into our town creates coalitions against it – now this isn’t to say that debate forum is wrong, but moreover to say that we allow people to develop more coalitions against ruralism.

Contention 2: Getting us there

And you know, once we meet up with our friends and critics of our advocacy after this round we’ll get the usual “Why are you whining about where you come from?” or the debaters who actually call you hicks outside of the round <span style="color: red;">(we’re looking at you La Costa Canyon). </span>Or people who literally ask us “Do you guys actually believe this shit?” This is only in existent because the debaters who are so entrenched in the normative and traditional style of debate are looking for ways to exclude our non-traditional style of debate. But guess what kids. We’re here to stay, and just like Beacon, Fullerton, and Louisville We’re going to speak the truth whether they like it or not - There is a traditional knowledge production within the debate community that privileges those with institutional and economic power while excluding other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of our personal experience and social location as rural intellectuals ruptures this privilege.
THE DSRB 2008
[<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The process of signifyin’ engaged in by the Louisville debaters is not simply designed to critique the use of traditional evidence; their goal is to “challenge the relationship between social power and knowledge.” In other words</span>**__,__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">those with</span> **__social power within the debate community__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">are able to</span> **__produce and determine “legitimate” knowledge__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__These__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">legitimating</span>**__practices__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">usually</span> **__function to maintain the dominance of__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">normative</span> **__knowledge-making__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> practices, while </span>**__crowding out__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">or directly excluding</span> **__alternative__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> knowledge-making </span>**__practices__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__The__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Louisville </span>**__“framework__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">looks</span> **__to the people who are oppressed by current constructions of power.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” Jones and Green offer </span>**__an alternative__** **__framework for__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">drawing</span> **__claims in debate__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">speeches, they refer to it as </span>**__a three-tier process__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: A way in which you can validate our claims, is through the three-tier process. And </span>**__we talk about personal experience, organic intellectuals, and academic intellectuals.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Let me give you an analogy. If you place an elephant in the room and send in three blind folded people into the room, and each of them are touching a different part of the elephant. And they come back outside and you ask each different person they gone have a different idea about what they was talking about. But, if you let those people converse and bring those three different people together then you can achieve a greater truth.” Jones argues that without</span> **__the three tier process__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">debate</span> **__claims are based on singular perspectives__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that privilege those</span> **__with institutional and economic power__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Louisville debaters do not reject traditional evidence per se, instead they </span>**__seek__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to</span> **__augment or supplement__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">what counts as evidence with other forms of knowledge produced outside of academia. As Green notes in the double-octo-finals at CEDA Nationals, “</span>**__Knowledge surrounds me in the streets,__** **__through my peers,__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">through</span> **__personal experiences, and everyday wars that I fight with my mind__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span>**__The thee-tier process__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: personal experience, organic intellectuals, and traditional evidence, </span>**__provides__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a method o</span>f **__argumentation that taps__** **__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">into</span>__** **__diverse forms of knowledge-making practices.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> With the Louisville method, personal experience and organic intellectuals are placed on par with traditional forms of evidence. While the Louisville debaters see the benefit of academic research, they are also critically aware of the normative practices that exclude racial and ethnic minorities from policy-oriented discussions because of their lack of training and expertise. Such exclusions prevent radical solutions to racism, classism, sexism, and homophobia from being more permanently addressed. According to Green: bell hooks talks about how when</span> **__we rely solely__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">on</span> **__one perspective to make our claims,__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">radical liberatory theory becomes rootless. That’s the reason why we use a three-tiered process. That’s why we use alternative forms of discourse such as hip hop. That’s also how </span>**__we use traditional evidence and our personal narratives so you don’t get just one perspective claiming to be__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>**__right__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> way. Because it becomes a more meaningful and educational view as far as how we achieve our education. The use of hip hop and personal experience function as a check against the homogenizing function of academic and expert discourse. Note the reference to bell hooks, Green argues that </span>**__without alternative perspectives, “radical libratory theory becomes rootless__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” The term rootless seems to refer to a lack of grounded-ness in the material circumstances that academics or experts study. In other words, </span>**__academics and experts by definition represent an intellectual population with a level of objective distance from that which they study__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For the Louisville debaters, this distance is problematic</span> **__as it prevents__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the</span> **__development of a social politic__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that is rooted in</span> **__the community__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of those most</span> **__greatly affected by the status of oppression.__**


You know it is crazy when you make the community aware of something so entirely exclusionary – Kris was pulled into St Vincent KY’s double octa-finals at Golden Desert where his friend David Kilpatrick and Himself started talking to about Framework and the Idea of it. Making kids aware of this form of educational exclusion as an intellectual downside to the community is the key part. you could tell the kids were getting into it and so were the judges. Making people aware that we are smart and that we can cut arguments relevant to the advocacy is the first step.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the context of this policy debate, the judge represents the federal government and is posed with the question of whether or not to invest in transportation infrastructure. The best investment he/she can make is an investment in transporting the organic intellectualism and experience of rural debaters into the community. The best infrastructure investment one can make in such transportation is a ballot. Debate is only a collection of shared understandings and explicit or implicit rules for interaction. Wins and losses are our currency; use of the ballot allow us to foster change in our community.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rebecca </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bjork, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">former college debater, coach, and professor in </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">‘93 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">While reflecting on my experiences as a woman in academic debate in preparation for this essay, I realized that I have been involved in debate for more than half of my life. I debated for four years in high school, for four years in college, and I have been coaching intercollegiate debate for nine years. Not surprisingly, much of my identity as an individual has been shaped by these experiences in debate. I am a person who strongly believes that debate empowers people to be committed and involved individuals in the communities in which they live. I am a person who thrives on the intellectual stimulation involved in teaching and traveling with the brightest students on my campus. I am a person who looks forward to the opportunities for active engagement of ideas with debaters and coaches from around the country. I am also, however, a college professor, a "feminist," and a peace activist who is increasingly frustrated and disturbed by some of the practices I see being perpetuated and rewarded in academic debate. I find that I can no longer separate my involvement in debate from the rest of who I am as an individual. Northwestern </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">I </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">remember listening to a lecture a few years ago given by</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">TomGoodnight</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">at the University summer debate camp</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Goodnight</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">lamented</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">what he saw</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">as the debate community's participation in</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and unthinking perpetuation of what he termed the "death culture</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">." He argued that </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the embracing</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">of "</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">big impact" arguments</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">--</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">nuclear war, environmental destruction, genocide, famine</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and the like-by debaters and coaches</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">signals amorbid and detached fascination with such events, one</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">that</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">views these real human tragediesas part of a "game"</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">in which so-called "objective and neutral" advocates</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">actively seek to find in their research the "impact to outweigh all other impacts</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">"--</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the round-winning argument that will carry them to their goal of winning tournament X, Y, or Z</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**. <span class="underline0">He concluded that our "use" of such events in this way is tantamount to a celebration of them</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">; our detached, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">rational</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">discussions reinforce a detached, rational viewpoint, when emotional and moral outrage may be a more appropriate response</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In the last few years, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">my academic research has led me to be persuaded by Goodnight's unspoken assumption</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**; <span class="underline0">language is not merely some transparent tool used to transmit information, but rather is an incredibly powerful medium, the use of which inevitably has real political and material consequences</span>.** Given this assumption, I believe that **<span class="underline0">it is important for us to examine the "discourse of debate practice</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">:" that is, the language, discourses, and meanings that we, as a community of debaters and coaches, unthinkingly employ in academic debate</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">If it is the case that the language we use has real implications for how we view the world, how we view others, and how we act in the world, then</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">it is imperative that we critically examine our own discourse practices with an eye to how our language does violence to others</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. I am shocked and surprised when I hear myself saying things like, "we killed them," or "take no prisoners," or "let's blow them out of the water." I am tired of the "ideal" debater being defined as one who has mastered the art of verbal assault to the point where accusing opponents of lying, cheating, or being deliberately misleading is a sign of strength. But what I am most tired of is how women debaters are marginalized and rendered voiceless in such a discourse community. Women who verbally assault their opponents are labeled "bitches" because it is not socially acceptable for women to be verbally aggressive. Women who get angry and storm out of a room when a disappointing decision is rendered are labeled "hysterical" because, as we all know, women are more emotional then men. I am tired of hearing comments like, "those 'girls' from school X aren't really interested in debate; they just want to meet men." We can all point to examples (although only a few) of women who have succeeded at the top levels of debate. But I find myself wondering how many more women gave up because they were tired of negotiating the mine field of discrimination, sexual harassment, and isolation they found in the debate community. </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As members of this community, however, we have great freedom to define it in whatever ways we see fit. After all, what is debate except a collection of shared understandings and explicit or implicit rules for interaction</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">? What I am calling for is a critical examination of how we, as individual members of this community, characterize our activity, ourselves, and our interactions with others through language</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. We must become aware of the ways in which our mostly hidden and unspoken assumptions about what "good" debate is function to exclude not only women, but ethnic minorities from the amazing intellectual opportunities that training in debate provides. Our nation and indeed, our planet, faces incredibly difficult challenges in the years ahead. I believe that </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">it is not acceptable anymore for us to go along as we always have, assuming that things will straighten themselves out</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. If the rioting in Los Angeles taught us anything, it is that </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">complacency breeds resentment and frustration</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**. <span class="underline0">We </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">may not be able to change the world, but we can change our own community, and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">We may not change debate </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">right</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;"> away, but our argument is centrally that what we say and think matters, no matter what place we are in. Debate is where we are. This is Golden Shoulders in 4</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"><Play Alt Solvency Track></span>**

**Recognition of the power disparity between urban and rural is the only way to address structural discrimination in services, transportation, education, poverty and environmental degradation.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Basset 03</span>
Basset Debra Lyn Bassett, Associate Professor of Law Michigan State University-DGL College of law. J.D. 1987, UC Davis School of Law; M.S. 1982, San Diego Stale Universiry: B.A. 1977. University of Vermont. “Ruralism,” Originally published in IOWA LAW REVIEW 88 IOWA L. REV. 273 (2003)
Urban dwellers shape the discourse and public policy to render Rural Dwellers Powerless.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rural dwellers suffer numerous</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">documented </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">disadvantages</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,287 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">recognitionof</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the burden of </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">these disadvantages is long overdue. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As is true of other forms of discrimination, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ruralism reflects the disparities in power</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">between urban and rural dwellers.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">288 FOOTNOTE 288: See Arnold, supra note 7, at 194-95: </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The urban population, which is</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">both </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">highly concentrated</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and much larger </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">than the rural population, pressures the federalgovernmenl to deal with ... problems.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> . .. [</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">W]hen </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">comparedto urban residents, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the rural underclass is politically weak. Widely dispersed, they lack the organization, financial resources, and concentrated voting strength necessary to influence public policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Other commentators have also noted the power disparities between urban and rural dwellers. See Lott, supra note 156, at 101 ("</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Power, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">defined as access to resources</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, enables the group with greatest access to set the rules, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">frame the discourse, and name and describe those with less power. ... 'it is power ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">that enables one to discriminate.'''</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) (citation omitted); see also KNOWING YOUR PLACE, supra note 5, at 2 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(" [T] he rural/urban distinction underlies many of the power relations that shape the experiences of people in nearly every culture</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."); id. at 17 (noting that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">"the city remains the locus of political, economic and cultural power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"); supra note 10 and accompanying text (noting the lack of power of rural dwellers). END FOOTNOTE The question remains the methodology: </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">How do we appropriately acknowledge and address the phenomenon of ruralism? ¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most effective remedies for ruralism are easily identified. As is true for discrimination based on race, gender, or other protected categories, the most effective remedies are the "three R's"-recognition, role models (or mentoring), and remediation. Recognition of ruralism as a phenomenon is the first necessary step.289 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">available </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">statisticsprovide</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">powerful </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">evidenceof</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the disadvantages faced</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">290 291 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">by </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">rural dwellers. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Poverty and </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">lackofaccess are well-documented. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">These disadvantages have prevented rural dwellers from full representation in society generally,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">and in university attendance and fuller entry into</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">elite professions in particular.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> With respect to ruralism against individuals, mentoring is another. 292 J. h I h 293 d Important step just as mentoring helps the poor, women, and minorities,294 it helps the progress of rural dwellers as well. Effective mentoring provides the information, role modeling, and encouragement necessary to overcome disadvantages and to maximize opportunities. Finally, during these beginning stages in recognizing the existence of ruralism, litigation under the Equal Protection Clause may be appropriate</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. Without affirmative action, the "qualifications" of rural dwellers will, almost by definition, be overshadowed by those of urban dwellers.Accordingly, recognition of the obstacles facing those from the most isolated rural areas; recognition</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">that overcoming those obstacles </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">to attend any post-secondary institution reflects a greater-than-usual degree of determination and perseverance;</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and recognition that rural dwellers do not have the same access to wealth, contacts, and connections, will help to accord a fairer evaluation of an applicant's "qualifications."With respect to discrimination against rural areas more generally, such as the siting of undesirable land uses, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">two of these three "Rs</span>**"** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">still apply recognition</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and remediation. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It is imperative that those with power exercise that power equitably with respect to urban and rural dwellers. Suggestions already exist to remedy racism in environmental decisions, and these same suggestions have validity in the ruralism context</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.295 Accordingly, remedial procedures should be instituted to lessen the impact of ruralism in our laws and regulations. </span>





=1AC NCFL= 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 1: Welcome to the Desert of the rural</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ever heard of Nevada Union before? Hint: it’s not in Nevada, though its understandable that everyone just assumes that it is. After all, we are just some hillbilly backwater, so there’s no need to get into uber- specific stuff like what state we are from. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Moreover, there’s no need to remember, I suppose, that Nevada County predates the state of Nevada by a good ten years, that our town is where the gold rush began. It hardly bears notice that it is a vibrant place full of art and culture. Forget our Pulitzer prize winning poets, world-famous musicians, international film festivals, and stunning natural beauty because we don’t have a shopping mall. Our rural identity means that we will always have to confront the assumption that we are just dumb hicks. After all, we talk funny sometimes and we don’t get your Sex in the City references. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Basset 03</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Basset Debra Lyn Bassett, Associate Professor of Law Michigan State University-DGL College of law. J.D. 1987,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">UC Davis School of Law; M.S. 1982, San Diego Stale Universiry: B.A. 1977. University of Vermont. “Ruralism,” Originally published in IOWA LAW REVIEW 88 IOWA L. REV. 273 (2003) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">those from rural areas suffer a "triple-bind" </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">when attempting </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">to compete for jobs</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">requiring a college education</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">. First,they</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">must have </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">overcome the poverty and inferior education of their rural roots </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and persevered intothe completion of </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">post-secondary education. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Second, if the educational institutions from which they graduated were not "elite" institutions, they likely will suffer bias in seeking the most competitive</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and desirable </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">employment. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">And third, they will not share the cultural background common to many urban dwellers, from which social conversations flow and from which perceptions are formed</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, even those rural dwellers who overcome the initial obstacles of poverty, inferior schools, and lack of access often have difficulty "fitting in" with individuals from urban backgrounds.183 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This latter disadvantage goes to the notion of "</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">cultural capital": "Cultural capital" ... is </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">another, more difficult to quantify human resource that enhances, or impedes access to labor markets. "</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Cultural capital" includes certain kinds of behavior, tastes, and attitudes that are markers of social class. Upper class parents, for example, imbue their children with attitudes and behaviors valued by other members of the same social class</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and in doing so, provide their children with a resource that will help them gain entry and acceptance in upper class circles</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Access to these social networks also means access to school and job opportunities as well as other kinds of economic advantages. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Moreover</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">when seeking the most highly competitive and desirablepositions</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, those from </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">rural backgrounds suffer</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">still an </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">additional hurdle</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the stereotype of rural dweller </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">as not only unsophisticated, but as actually lacking intelligence, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and therefore as antithetical to the very notion of reflective intellectual thought. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Brilliance is associated with urban, not rural, dwellers. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">This is personal for us. Kris, when he was just a young buck, grew up in the rural town of North San Juan where there was one public transit bus going from the countryside of NSJ to town and Kris’s family going through a recent death of his mother fell low on finances and his father could not afford a car for the first 6 months he was out there. They were forced to run low on food for the first 6 months until his father obtained the first check to buy a car. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Our rural community, like so many others, faces a shrinking population and therefore shrinking tax base. With state funds wrapped up in securing the urban prison-industrial complex, our school was forced to lay off a dozen teachers. We can’t get a debate coach to come run our program because there’s no job security and certainly not the resources of a wealthy suburban district. Any kind of curricular enrichment is cut first. Turns out, there’s some evidence that we aren’t alone.** </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">We have to drive nearly everywhere we go. We have no school debate budget. The only reason we have a coach is because our parents pay his salary. The amount of tournaments we attend is severely limited because we just don’t have the transportation to get there. We sit through 14 hour car rides to vegas just get to a bid tournament, and we can’t go to many because we’re limited to regional tournaments, which, as seems hella obvious by now, really aint much.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Basset 03</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Basset Debra Lyn Bassett, Associate Professor of Law Michigan State University-DGL College of law. J.D. 1987, UC Davis School of Law; M.S. 1982, San Diego Stale Universiry: B.A. 1977. University of Vermont. “Ruralism,” Originally published in IOWA LAW REVIEW 88 IOWA L. REV. 273 (2003)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Rural education</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and post-college employment</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">also suffer as a result of</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 156 our society's </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">urban focus</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The impact of</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">ruralism</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> upon education </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">is found at all levels</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">---elementary education through post-secondary</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">education-as well as</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">in subsequent post-college </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">employment opportunities</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. 1. Ruralism and Education Ruralism impacts education in several ways. One prominent impact stems, of course, from rural poverty.157 Indeed, it can be tempting to blame poverty for all problems in rural education. However, although poverty is certainly a contributing factor, it does not provide a full explanation. If poverty alone rendered schools inadequate, all "quality" schools would be schools with strong financial resources-yet this is not the case. For example, of the 264 schools selected as "Blue Ribbon Schools" in 2001, only five percent were rural schools, rendering rural schools grossly underrepresented in proportion to their numbers-yet forty-six percent of those schools selected as "Blue Ribbon Schools" were low-income schools.158 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The indirect impact of rural poverty</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">upon rural education</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">is overshadowed by the direct impact that results</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">from how rural education is funded-and it is</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">in this area that ruralism plays a central role.</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Most states rely on local property taxes as the source of funding for education. But using</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">local property taxes</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">as the sole educational funding source</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">will inherently and necessarily discriminate against rural areas, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">which have a lower tax base due to fewer residences and commercial properties.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Adding to this problem, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">most</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">school fundingformulas are based on average daily enrollment.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">159</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Rural schools, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">which by definition</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">enroll fewer students, have little choice but to cut programs and staff, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">or alternatively, to consolidate with one or more other schools.160 Thus, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the common methods for funding public</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">education inherently benefit urban schools and discriminate against rural schools. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The combination of rural poverty and the reduced tax base in rural areas results in a double whammy against rural education. Moreover, rural schools tend to be modeled after urban schools.161 This model dooms rural schools to inferiority, because rural schools typically are unable to provide the educational resources available in urban areas: Schools in such rural locales often have difficulty providing educational resources equal to those offered by more affluent cities and towns. And communities surrounding such schools frequently lack active parents and community groups to support the goals of schooling. The Children's Defense Fund (CDF) summarized a number of data-based studies related to rural children "at risk." The CDF argued that, compared with schools in much of metropolitan America, rural schools suffer from weaknesses that critically affect their students. For example, the CDF notes that </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">most</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">rural states have minimal cost-equalization</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">formulas based</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">on population density. This</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">means that poor and rural districts</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">must rely on local taxes to equalize expenditures, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">which leads to significant funding inequities</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">. These inequities typically translate into fewer mathematics and/or advanced placement courses in rural high schools, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">fewer programs for gifted and talented children, fewer alternative school programs, fewer programs for pregnant teenagers, and sometimes even the failure to provide transportation to and from school.</span> **<span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to the impact of economic factors in rural education</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">small 163 rural population bases tend to result in geographic and cultural isolation.Rural teachers, principals, and administrators are paid less than those in urban areas, and rural areas often have greater difficulty recruiting 164 teachers.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The geographical isolation inherent in the most remote rural locations results in professional isolation as well. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition, due to decreased financial resources, teachers often are expected to teach outside of their areas of certification</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">165</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">resulting in depleted human resources and, ultimately, substandard education. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Ruralism leads to separate but (not) equal education, particularly with regard to the ability to get transportation to extracurricular activities like debate. Lack of educational opportunities combined with Stereotyping means that rural dwellers are marginalized in competitive intellectual settings.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Basset 03</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Basset Debra Lyn Bassett, Associate Professor of Law Michigan State University-DGL College of law. J.D. 1987, UC Davis School of Law; M.S. 1982, San Diego Stale Universiry: B.A. 1977. University of Vermont. “Ruralism,” Originally published in IyOWA LAW REVIEW 88 IOWA L. REV. 273 (2003)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Although ruralism does not preclude rural students from attending college or obtaining employment altogether, it precludes most from attending elite colleges and obtaining the most desirable employment</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.177 Similar to other forms of discrimination, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the effect of ruralism is compounded through the college and employment processes</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**.** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Rural schools typically are considered inferior tourban schools.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">178 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Rural schools often are unable to offer a variety of foreign language, mathematics, and science courses.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rural schools are often unable to offer "tracked</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">" or Advanced Placement courses, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">which would enhance students' ability to compete with urban students for college admission</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. When applying to college, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">rural students are at a disadvantage as urban students' standardized test scores are higher and their course listings are more comprehensive</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">179 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Rural students often do not have access to preparatory classes</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">for standardizedachievement </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">tests</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, such as the Scholastic Aptitude Test, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">in which urban students routinely enroll. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition, rural students often cannot compete with the experiences available to urban students, particularly wealthy urban students, who have traveled or engaged in specialized activities that serve as the foundation for the personal statement of their college applications.IBo In a significant way, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">rural schools embody today's "separate but equal" problem: educational facilities are provided to rural children, but the opportunities do not approximate those provided to urban children. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Thus, the notion of "separate but equal" continues to exist today in segregating our most rural students from urban ones-</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and just as the separate facilities for African-Americans were never truly "equal," but only "separate," t</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">he same is true of the segregation of rural dwellers.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Moreover, even for those students who persevere and obtain a college education, problems stemming from ruralism continue past college graduation. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 2: Getting us there</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">In the context of this policy debate, the judge represents the federal government and is posed with the question of whether or not to invest in transportation infrastructure. The best investment he/she can make is an investment in transporting the organic intellectualism and experience of rural debaters into the community. The best infrastructure investment one can make in such transportation is a ballot.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">There is a traditional knowledge production within the debate community that privileges those with institutional and economic power \while excluding other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of our personal experience and social location as rural intellectuals ruptures this privilege.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">THE DSRB 2008 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The process of signifyin’ engaged in by the Louisville debaters is not simply designed to critique the use of traditional evidence; their goal is to “challenge the relationship between social power and knowledge.” In other words</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">thosewith</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">social power within the debate community</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">are able to</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">produce and determine“legitimate” knowledge</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">These</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">legitimating</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">practices</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">usually</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">function to maintain the dominance of </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">normative</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">knowledge-making</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> practices, while </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">crowding out</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">or directlyexcluding</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">alternative</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> knowledge-making </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">practices</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Louisville </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">“framework</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">looks</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">to the peoplewho are oppressed by current constructions of power.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">” Jones and Green offer </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">an alternativeframework for</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">drawing</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">claims in debate</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">speeche</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">s</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, they refer to it as </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">a three-tier process</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">: A way in which you can validate our claims, is through the three-tier process. And </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">we talk about personal experience, organic intellectuals, and academic intellectuals.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Let me give you an analogy. If you place an elephant in the room and send in three blind folded people into the room, and each of them are touching a different part of the elephant. And they come back outside and you ask each different person they gone have a different idea about what they was talking about. But, if you let those people converse and bring those three different people together then you can achieve a greater truth.” Jones argues that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">without</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">the three tier process</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">debate</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">claims are based onsingular perspectives</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">that privilege those</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">with institutional and economic power</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. The Louisville debaters do not reject traditional evidence per se, instead they </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">seek</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">to</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">augment or supplement</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">what counts as evidence with other forms of knowledge produced outside of academia. As Green notes in the double-octo-finals at CEDA Nationals, “</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Knowledge surrounds me in the streets,through my peers, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">through</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">personal experiences, and everyday wars that I fight with my mind</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The thee-tier process</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">: personal experience, organic intellectuals, and traditional evidence, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">provides</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">a method o</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">f argumentation that taps</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">into</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">diverse forms of knowledge-making practices.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> With the Louisville method, personal experience and organic intellectuals are placed on par with traditional forms of evidence. While the Louisville debaters see the benefit of academic research, they are also critically aware of the normative practices that exclude racial and ethnic minorities from policy-oriented discussions because of their lack of training and expertise. Such exclusions prevent radical solutions to racism, classism, sexism, and homophobia from being more permanently addressed. According to Green: bell hooks talks about how </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">when</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">we rely solely</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">on</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">one perspective to make our claims, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">radical liberatory theory becomes rootless. That’s the reason why we use a three-tiered process. That’s why we use alternative forms of discourse such as hip hop. That’s also how </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">we use traditional evidence and our personal narratives so you don’t get just one perspective claiming to be</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">right</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> way. Because it becomes a more meaningful and educational view as far as how we achieve our education. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The use of hip hop and personal experience function as a check against the homogenizing function of academic and expert discourse</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Note the reference to bell hooks, Green argues that </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">without alternative perspectives, “radical libratory theory becomes rootless</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.” The term rootless seems to refer to a lack of grounded-ness in the material circumstances that academics or experts study. In other words, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">academics and experts by definition represent an intellectual population with a level of objective distance from that which they study</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. For the Louisville debaters, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">this distance is problematic</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">as it prevents</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">developmentof a social politic</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">thatis rooted in</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">the community</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">of those most</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">greatlyaffected by the status of oppression.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Debate is only a collection of shared understandings and explicit or implicit rules for interaction. Wins and losses are our currency; use of the ballot allow us to foster change in our community.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rebecca </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bjork, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">former college debater, coach, and professor in </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">‘93 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">While reflecting on my experiences as a woman in academic debate in preparation for this essay, I realized that I have been involved in debate for more than half of my life. I debated for four years in high school, for four years in college, and I have been coaching intercollegiate debate for nine years. Not surprisingly, much of my identity as an individual has been shaped by these experiences in debate. I am a person who strongly believes that debate empowers people to be committed and involved individuals in the communities in which they live. I am a person who thrives on the intellectual stimulation involved in teaching and traveling with the brightest students on my campus. I am a person who looks forward to the opportunities for active engagement of ideas with debaters and coaches from around the country. I am also, however, a college professor, a "feminist," and a peace activist who is increasingly frustrated and disturbed by some of the practices I see being perpetuated and rewarded in academic debate. I find that I can no longer separate my involvement in debate from the rest of who I am as an individual. Northwestern </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">I </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">remember listening to a lecture a few years ago given by</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">TomGoodnight</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">at the University summer debate camp</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Goodnight</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">lamented</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">what he saw</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">as the debate community's participation in</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and unthinking perpetuation of what he termed the "death culture</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">." He argued that </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the embracing</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">of "</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">big impact" arguments</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">--</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">nuclear war, environmental destruction, genocide, famine</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and the like-by debaters and coaches</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">signals amorbid and detached fascination with such events, one</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">that</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">views these real human tragediesas part of a "game"</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">in which so-called "objective and neutral" advocates</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">actively seek to find in their research the "impact to outweigh all other impacts</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">"--</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the round-winning argument that will carry them to their goal of winning tournament X, Y, or Z</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**. <span class="underline">He concluded that our "use" of such events in this way is tantamount to a celebration of them</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">; our detached, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">rational</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">discussions reinforce a detached, rational viewpoint, when emotional and moral outrage may be a more appropriate response</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In the last few years, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">my academic research has led me to be persuaded by Goodnight's unspoken assumption</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**; <span class="underline">language is not merely some transparent tool used to transmit information, but rather is an incredibly powerful medium, the use of which inevitably has real political and material consequences</span>. Given this assumption, I believe that <span class="underline">it is important for us to examine the "discourse of debate practice</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">:" that is, the language, discourses, and meanings that we, as a community of debaters and coaches, unthinkingly employ in academic debate</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">If it is the case that the language we use has real implications for how we view the world, how we view others, and how we act in the world, then</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">it is imperative that we critically examine our own discourse practices with an eye to how our language does violence to others</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. I am shocked and surprised when I hear myself saying things like, "we killed them," or "take no prisoners," or "let's blow them out of the water." I am tired of the "ideal" debater being defined as one who has mastered the art of verbal assault to the point where accusing opponents of lying, cheating, or being deliberately misleading is a sign of strength. But what I am most tired of is how women debaters are marginalized and rendered voiceless in such a discourse community. Women who verbally assault their opponents are labeled "bitches" because it is not socially acceptable for women to be verbally aggressive. Women who get angry and storm out of a room when a disappointing decision is rendered are labeled "hysterical" because, as we all know, women are more emotional then men. I am tired of hearing comments like, "those 'girls' from school X aren't really interested in debate; they just want to meet men." We can all point to examples (although only a few) of women who have succeeded at the top levels of debate. But I find myself wondering how many more women gave up because they were tired of negotiating the mine field of discrimination, sexual harassment, and isolation they found in the debate community. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As members of this community, however, we have great freedom to define it in whatever ways we see fit. After all, what is debate except a collection of shared understandings and explicit or implicit rules for interaction</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">? What I am calling for is a critical examination of how we, as individual members of this community, characterize our activity, ourselves, and our interactions with others through language</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. We must become aware of the ways in which our mostly hidden and unspoken assumptions about what "good" debate is function to exclude not only women, but ethnic minorities from the amazing intellectual opportunities that training in debate provides. Our nation and indeed, our planet, faces incredibly difficult challenges in the years ahead. I believe that </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">it is not acceptable anymore for us to go along as we always have, assuming that things will straighten themselves out</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. If the rioting in Los Angeles taught us anything, it is that </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">complacency breeds resentment and frustration</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**. <span class="underline">We </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">may not be able to change the world, but we can change our own community, and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">We may not change debate right away, but our argument is centrally that what we say and think matters, no matter what place we are in. Debate is where we are.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"><Play Alt Solvency Track> (Golden shoulders: </span>
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ekLzVXJwKYk)


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Recognition of the power disparity between urban and rural is the only way to address structural discrimination in services, transportation, education, poverty and environmental degradation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Basset 03</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Basset Debra Lyn Bassett, Associate Professor of Law Michigan State University-DGL College of law. J.D. 1987, UC Davis School of Law; M.S. 1982, San Diego Stale Universiry: B.A. 1977. University of Vermont. “Ruralism,” Originally published in IOWA LAW REVIEW 88 IOWA L. REV. 273 (2003)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Urban dwellers shape the discourse and public policy to render Rural Dwellers Powerless. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Rural dwellers suffer numerous documented disadvantages</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">,287 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">and recognitionof the burden of these disadvantages is long overdue. As is true of other forms of discrimination, ruralism reflects the disparities in power between urban and rural dwellers.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">288 FOOTNOTE 288: See Arnold, supra note 7, at 194-95: </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The urban population, which is both highly concentrated and much larger than the rural population, pressures the federalgovernmenl to deal with ... problems.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> . .. [</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">W]hen comparedto urban residents, the rural underclass is politically weak. Widely dispersed, they lack the organization, financial resources, and concentrated voting strength necessary to influence public policy</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">. Other commentators have also noted the power disparities between urban and rural dwellers. See Lott, supra note 156, at 101 ("</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Power, defined as access to resources, enables the group with greatest access to set the rules, frame the discourse, and name and describe those with less power. ... 'it is power ... that enables one to discriminate.'''</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">) (citation omitted); see also KNOWING YOUR PLACE, supra note 5, at 2 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(" [T] he rural/urban distinction underlies many of the power relations that shape the experiences of people in nearly every culture</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">."); id. at 17 (noting that </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">"the city remains the locus of political, economic and cultural power</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">"); supra note 10 and accompanying text (noting the lack of power of rural dwellers). END FOOTNOTE The question remains the methodology: </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">How do we appropriately acknowledge and address the phenomenon of ruralism?</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">The most effective remedies for ruralism are easily identified. As is true for discrimination based on race, gender, or other protected categories, the most effective remedies are the "three R's"-recognition, role models (or mentoring), and remediation. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Recognition of ruralism as a phenomenon is the first necessary step</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">.289 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The available statisticsprovide powerful evidenceof the disadvantages faced</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> 290 291 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">by rural dwellers. Poverty and lackofaccess are well-documented. These disadvantages have prevented rural dwellers from full representation in society generally, and in university attendance and fuller entry into</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> the </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">elite professions in particular.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> With respect to ruralism against individuals, mentoring is another. 292 J. h I h 293 d Important step just as mentoring helps the poor, women, and minorities,294 it helps the progress of rural dwellers as well. Effective mentoring provides the information, role modeling, and encouragement necessary to overcome disadvantages and to maximize opportunities. Finally, during these beginning stages in recognizing the existence of ruralism, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">litigation under the Equal Protection Clause may be appropriate. Without affirmative action, the "qualifications" of rural dwellers will, almost by definition, be overshadowed by those of urban dwellers.Accordingly, recognition of the obstacles facing those from the most isolated rural areas; recognition that overcoming those obstacles to attend any post-secondary institution reflects a greater-than-usual degree of determination and perseverance; and recognition that rural dwellers do not have the same access to wealth, contacts, and connections, will help to accord a fairer evaluation of an applicant's "qualifications."With respect to discrimination against rural areas more generally, such as the siting of undesirable land uses, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">two of these three "Rs" </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">still apply recognition</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> and remediation. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">It is imperative that those with power exercise that power equitably with respect to urban and rural dwellers. Suggestions already exist to remedy racism in environmental decisions, and these same suggestions have validity in the ruralism context</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">.295 Accordingly, remedial procedures should be instituted to lessen the impact of ruralism in our laws and regulations. </span>



=1AC St Francis= 

The status quo fails to provide a clear federal commitment to funding the NextGen air traffic system, a necessary condition for any solvency.
**Salam 12**
Sakib bin Salam, Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation, The Eno Center for Transportation is a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation and leads profession- al development in the transportation industry. “NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership” http://www.enotrans.org/wp-content/uploads/wpsc/downloadables/NextGen-paper.pdf


Secondly, __there are doubts about__.....n a timely manner if __at all.__
Lack of federal commitment is preventing operators from upgrading to NextGen-ready planes
**Salam 12**
Sakib bin Salam, Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation, The Eno Center for Transportation is a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation and leads profession- al development in the transportation industry. “NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership” http://www.enotrans.org/wp-content/uploads/wpsc/downloadables/NextGen-paper.pdf

Securing funding for infrastructure....have to invest in equi- page particularly if there are benefits involved.

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Plan</span>
**The United States federal government should fully fund Next Generation Air Traffic System infrastructure.**
=== === 
__Advantage 1: Climate__
Aviation emissions have a huge impact on climate change
**Dalton 2009**
12/21, Nature Magazine, “How aircraft emissions contribute to warming,” ttp://www.nature.com/news/2009/091221/full/news.2009.1157.html//

//__Aircraft emissionscould be .....__needed on the actual impact of such emissions, he adds.//
//Aviation emissions are increasing rapidly//
//**<span style="color: #232323;">Bonnefoy et al 2011</span>**//
//Postdoctoral Associate in the Department of Aeronautics & Astronautics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Sgouris Sgouridis, , Philippe A. Bonnefoy1, , R. John Hansman2, Masdar Institute of Science and Technology, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates International Center for Air Transportation, Department of Aeronautics & Astronautics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, USA [[http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.baylor.edu/10.1016/j.tra.2010.03.019]],//
//__With increasing demand for air transportation__worldwide........for air transportation in developing and emerging countries.//


//**NextGen vastly reduces emissions**//

//**NASA, 2012**//
//National Aeronautics and Space Administration (“ Air Traffic Management (ATM) Technology Demonstration - 1 (ATD-1): Interval Management - Terminal Area Precision Scheduling and Spacing (IM-TAPSS) “, Aviation Systems Division, March 8, 2012, http://www.aviationsystemsdivision.arc.nasa.gov/research/tactical/atd1.shtml// )GKoo

__At any **given** moment**, up** to 5,000 aircraft crowd U.S. skies**.**__.....and arrival slots, and will not likely need to provide as many interventions as they do in today’s busy traffic conditions.


**There are sustained international efforts, but Washington’s inaction on aviation emissions crushes them politically**
**The Guardian 8/3/**2102
“The EU should stand firm on its scheme to limit aviation emissions,” <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/blog/2012/aug/03/eu-limit-aviation-emissions?newsfeed=true|__http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/blog/2012/aug/03/eu-limit-aviation-emissions?newsfeed=true__]]</span>

In fact, **__attempts to addressthis problem on a .....__** the ETS until and if something better globally emerges. ICAO has the chance now to prove it is more than a talking shop.

**Warming is anthropogenic and risks extinction – equivalent to a nuclear war**
**Diebel 07**
(Terry L. Deibel, professor of IR at National War College, Foreign Affairs Strategy, “Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today Anthropogenic – caused by CO2”)
Finally, __there is onemajor existential threat__to American security .......c__ontinued existence of life on this planet__.



<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Advantage 2 - Civil Aviation</span>

**Two things are killing civil aviation now**
**a. Fuel costs**

**Salam 12**

Sakib bin Salam, Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation, The Eno Center for Transportation is a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation and leads profession- al development in the transportation industry. “NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership” http://www.enotrans.org/wp-content/uploads/wpsc/downloadables/NextGen-paper.pdf

A1. __Soaring Fuel Prices........__losses to the industry.57

**b. Delays**
**Ferguson 12**
Doctor of Philosophy (John, “A METHODOLOGY FOR EVALUATING ECONOMIC AND POLICY IMPACTS ON AIRLINE AND PASSENGER BEHAVIOR”, Spring 2012 – George Mason University, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://catsr.ite.gmu.edu/pubs/Ferguson_Dissertation_Final_2012_seApr25_v3.pdf)/IIN|__http://catsr.ite.gmu.edu/pubs/Ferguson_Dissertation_Final_2012_seApr25_v3.pdf)//IIN__]]</span>

BACKGROUND OF CONGESTION ..... __to $41B/year__ (C. E. Schumer and C. B. Maloney 2008).

**NextGen would solve them both.**

**Salam 12**

Sakib bin Salam, Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation, The Eno Center for Transportation is a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation and leads profession- al development in the transportation industry. “NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership” [[http://www.enotrans.org/wp-content/uploads/wpsc/downloadables/NextGen-paper.pdf]]

The __current aviation....__jet fuel price of about $2.86/gallon in 2011, __total fuel savings to operators would be about $600 million__ annually.

**That’s huge for economic stability**

**FAA 11**

(Federal Aviation Administration, “The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the U.S. Economy”, U.S. Department of Transportation, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/publications/media/FAA_Economic_Impact_Rpt_2011.pdf)/|__http://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/publications/media/FAA_Economic_Impact_Rpt_2011.pdf)/__]]</span>

In a world of decreasing barriers to trade.....__even essential, component of a strong and healthy American economy in the 21st century__


**<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">The effect is global</span>**
**IATA, 2008**

(International Air Transport Association, “Aviation Economic Benefits”, http://www.iata.org/SiteCollectionDocuments/890700_Aviation_Economic_Benefits_Summary_Report.pdf) Megan

Global economic growth is a key ..and to international capital markets



**Economic crises cause world wars**

**ROYAL ‘10**

Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is how periods of __economic...__As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.


**They go nuclear**

**Friedberg and Schoenfeld, 2008**

[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]</span>]

__Then there are....____internal travails with external adventures.__
**And, Budget sequestration will happen now**
Thompson 9/2
<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">Mark, Pulitzer Prize winning national security writer, Time Magazine, “Countdown to Sequestration: Four Months to Go” [[http://nation.time.com/2012/09/02/countdown-to-sequestration-four-months-to-go/]]</span>
Gosh, we started this.....in defense-spending cuts.


**Sequestration will collapse the FAA industry now – that kills funding for NextGen**
Newswire 8/14

<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">“Report: FAA Budget Cuts Could Ground Air Travelers, Cargo And U.S. Economy,” http://www.aviationpros.com/news/10759198/report-faa-budget-cuts-could-ground-air-travelers-cargo-and-us-economy</span>


Captain Lee Moak, President Air .....and maintain world leadership.


**NextGen k2 Air traffic systems**
<span style="font-size: 15.99px;">Tate, 5/31/</span><span style="font-size: 10.67px;">12 [ Curtis Tate, former contributor to the WSJ and Regional correspondent for McClatchy, http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/05/31/2826234/plan-to-update-air-traffic-control.html]</span>

WASHINGTON -- <span style="font-size: 13.32px;">AF</span>ederal <span style="font-size: 13.32px;">A</span>viation <span style="font-size: 13.32px;">A</span>dministration .....<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">that measures the true cost,” Costello said.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Air traffic systems are key to civil aviation</span>**

Lowy’11 <span style="font-size: 10.67px;">( Jim, Financial director for yahoo, New air traffic control system at crossroads, [[http://finance.yahoo.com/news/New-air-traffic-control-apf-3056226463.html]], Kris)</span>

The Federal Aviation Administration iscreating a new air traffic system...........with the introduction of radar


**FAA spending boosts jobs and private investment.**

<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">David </span><span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Grizzle</span><span style="font-size: 10.67px;">, Chief Operating Officer Air Traffic Organization Federal Aviation Administration, August </span><span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2011</span><span style="font-size: 10.67px;">, “The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the U.S. Economy” , [[http://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/.../FAA_Economic_Impact_Rpt_2011.pdf|www.faa.gov/air_traffic/.../FAA_Economic_Impact_Rpt_2011.pdf]]</span>

Previous FAA economic impact.......<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">industry operating efficiently and safely</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Solvency</span>**
**Federal investment in NextGen infrastructure will entice operators to equip their planes for NextGen**
**Salam 12**

Sakib bin Salam, Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation, The Eno Center for Transportation is a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation and leads profession- al development in the transportation industry. “NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership” http://www.enotrans.org/wp-content/uploads/wpsc/downloadables/NextGen-paper.pdf

Table 6 summarizes the potential annual NextGen .......to counter the continuing risk across the larger industry


**Operators won’t invest until the FFA fully funds NextGen**

**Bogdan, 2012**

Staff Writer for the Press of Atlantic City(Jennifer, “Uncertainty about benefits, funds hurting Next Generation Air Transportation System, think tank study says”, Press of Atlantic City, April 15, 2012, http://www.pressofatlanticcity.com/communities/eht/uncertainty-about-benefits-funds-hurting-next-generation-air-transportation-system/article_606a1c4a-86a1-11e1-9a37-001a4bcf887a.html)

**__Airline carriers are reluctant to take .......__**The aviation industry? Maybe. But probably no one.”



**Even if the most pessimistic projections are right, NextGen still makes a huge impact**

**Salam 12**

Sakib bin Salam, Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation, The Eno Center for Transportation is a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation and leads profession- al development in the transportation industry. “NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership” [[http://www.enotrans.org/wp-content/uploads/wpsc/downloadables/NextGen-paper.pdf]]

However, the FAA has not made public the details ,......__tons of reduced__ carbon __emissions annually__.


**This saves commercial** aviation by making it environmentally and commercially sustainable

**Elwell, 2008**

(Dan, vice president of Civil Aviation Aerospace Industries Association, “Investing in Infrastructure: The Road to Recovery”, Oct. 29, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/aianews/speeches/2008/testimony_house-transportation-infrastructure-comm_102908.pdf)

In today’s economic environment, ....and on a predictable schedule.

=1AC CSUF (With Connor Hayes)= 
=2AC Kritiks= 

===2AC Virilio=== 
[[media type="youtube" key="H3R-rtWPyJY" height="315" width="560"]]

===2AC Perm=== 
**Consensus of experts agree the perm solve**
**AT&T '12**
[[media type="youtube" key="3WpoxqoX96E" height="315" width="560"]]


=Neg= 
==Disads== 
===Elections 1NC=== 
**<updated uniqueness>**

**More deficit spending would** **swing the election to Romney**
**Kraushaar, ’12** (Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, [[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]])

If unemployment was the .....__is pretty good but voter dissatisfaction still runs high.__
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 17.33px;">Economy key – focus groups – a sustained effort will help Obama frame the election.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 17.33px;">Daily Beast 6-15</span>**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> [Eleanor Clift, political correspondent for the Daily Beast; “In Focus Group, Independent Voters Souring on Obama”; 6/15/2012; </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman;">[[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/06/15/in-focus-group-independent-voters-souring-on-obama.html|__http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/06/15/in-focus-group-independent-voters-souring-on-obama.html__]]</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">; Boyce]</span>

**__How tough an uphill climb does President Obama ........__****__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A sustained effort, and not just a one-stop speech, could reframe the race.</span>__**
**Obama will be blamed - kills chances at re-election**

**Teitelman ‘11**
Robert Teitelman is editor in chief of The Deal. In 2003, Min Magazine chose him as one of the “21 Most Intriguing People” in media and in 2008 B2B Magazine selected him as for a “Media Business Innovator Award.” Mr. Teitelman also worked as a writer and editor for Forbes and Financial World. In addition, he is the author of two books, Profits of Science: The American Marriage of Business and Technology and Gene Dreams: Wall Street, Academia and the Rise of Biotechnology, both published by Basic Books. He is a graduate of the College of William & Mary, with masters degrees in international affairs and journalism from Columbia University. The Deal – August 1, 2011 -- lexis

The debt ceiling looks like it will be raised, though who knows......when arrayed against the extremes. That's the real worry here.



**Romney kills US-Russia relations**

<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Larison 6/27</span> (Daniel Larison, contributing editor at The American Conservative and writes a column for The Weekonline, Ph.D. graduate from the University of Chicago, “U.S.-Russian Relations Would Get Much Worse Under Romney”, [[http://www.theamericanconservative.com/larison/u-s-russian-relations-would-get-much-worse-under-romney/]], 6/27/12, Bhattacharyya)

Putin might share some of that same distrust ......//<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">more than they have in the last year</span>//

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Allison 11</span> (Graham, 10/30, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6)

That central point is that .........__China in preventing U.N. Security Council__ __resolutions__

===Egypt Aid DA (This is only for david kilpatrick...)=== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 13.32px;">Obama is trying to send emergency funds to Egypt – house Republicans are obstructing</span>**</span>
New York Times 9/26
<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">“U.S. Move to Give Egypt $450 Million in Aid Meets Resistance,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/29/world/middleeast/white-house-move-to-give-egypt-450-million-in-aid-meets-resistance.html</span>

The Obama administration notified Congress ....budget crisis has become acute.<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">.”</span>

**Obama lobbying congress will be key – they can roll back the money**

Wall Street Jounral 9/28

Rep. Kay Granger, a Republican, said Friday that ....religion and due processof law."

**<Insert link>**

**Cutting aid fosters regional conflict**
Qayyum 9/25
Mehrunisa Qayyum worked at the United States’ Government Accountability Office for four years. Prior to that, she earned her MPP and Certificate in Contemporary Arab Studies from Georgetown University and a BA in both Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations and Public Policy from the University of Chicago.

In the180-degree flip from cozy FTA discussions to angry threats.....grown dependent on Arab governments' business.


**It goes nuclear**

Steinbach 02
John Steinbach, DC Iraq Coalition, ISRAELI WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION: A THREAT TO PEACE, March 2002, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html]]

Meanwhile, <span style="font-size: 15.99px;">the existence of an arsenal of mass destruction ..........conflict could trigger a world conflagration."</span>




==**__Kritik__**== 
===**__CAP__**=== 
**The reliance and drive for the government to secure and solve all of our problems are rooted with-in the paradigm of capitalism**
**Amy 7** Douglas J. Amy Professor of Politics at Mount Holyoke College since at least 1988 http://www.governmentisgood.com/articles.php?aid=13&p=6
Once the extent and ....... __caused by laissez-faire capitalism.__
**These crisis for saving the global hegemon is rooted with in the capitalist system that makes the aff impacts inevitable and prevents any aff solvency**
<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">Nick </span>**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 15.99px;">Beams</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">, member of International Editorial Board and National Secretary of Australian Socialist Equality Party, </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 15.99px;">20**03**</span> <span style="font-size: 10.67px;">“The Political Economy of American Militarism, part 2” July 2, [[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2003/jul2003/nb2-j11_prn.shtml|www.wsws.org/articles/2003/jul2003/nb2-j11_prn.shtml]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">The immediate impetus for </span><span class="underline">......military and dictatorial forms of rule</span>.

**We’re at the endgame – unchecked growth will cause extinction, and no reform to capitalism can save us. The only way out is full-blown revolution.**
Joel **<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Kovel</span>**, Professor of Social Studies at Bard College, <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">20**02**</span>, The Enemy of Nature, p. 5-6
<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">As the world, or ..... but is nothing of the kind. </span>
**Discourse shapes our reality – A focus on the discussion we have on capitalism shapes the way we solve the root causes of capitalism**
**Cloud, ‘1**
<span style="font-size: 13.32px;">[Dana L. Cloud, Associate Professor, Communication Studies UT Austin, “The Affirmative Masquerade,” American Communication Journal, Volume 4, Issue 3, Spring 2001, </span>[[http://www.acjournal.org/holdings/vol4/iss3/special/cloud.htm|**__http://www.acjournal.org/holdings/vol4/iss3/special/cloud.htm__**]]<span style="font-size: 13.32px;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">At the very least, however, it is clear that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.32px;">.....</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 13.32px;">for producing transformative knowledges.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.67px;"> (p. 7) </span>
**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Our alternative is to do nothing. The only way to open up space for a new kind of activity is to renounce facile calls to direct action. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">Slavoj </span>**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 15.99px;">Zizek</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies in Ljubljana, 20</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 15.99px;">0**4**</span><span style="font-size: 10.67px;">, Iraq: The Borrowed Kettle, p. 71-74</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.67px;">The stance of simply condemning the postmodern ..... Way is – or, rather, was – about).</span>


==Strategies== 
==St francis== 
Neg Strategies
Round 1: Harker (NIB)
1NC - T- Direct investment, Ohio ptx, cap K (Case was econ and heg D)
2NC - Ohio Ptx
1NR - Cap, T, Case
2NR - Ptx


Round 3: CPS (Race aff)
1NC - F/W, JARC CP, Post Racialism K (Case was speaking for others bad)
2NC - F/W, CP, case
1NR - dat K
2NR - F/W

Round 5: CK Mcclatchy (Icebreakers)
1NC - T - in the U.S, T - Vehicles, Alaska CP, Elx
2NC - CP, Elx
1NR - T - U.S, T- Vehicles, Case
2NC - CP/DA

==Long Beach== 

Round 2 vs loyola sophs (Port security)
UAV CP
Egypt DA
T
Case - trade bad/ag bad
2nr: Egypt DA


Round 4 vs St vincents KY ( Bering Straight)
Cap
T-in the u.s
F/W
Case
2nr: F/W

Round 6: CPS YA (Port dredging)
1NC
Egypt
States
Fem K of econ
T-investment
Case
2nr: Condo good (Myka, I hate you <3)

==Ponderosa - Kris was with a freshman (100% sure it's not going to be a regular 2nr strategy)== 

round 1: AFF: HSR
spending
econ turns
Bio-D defense
2nr: Case D (lawlss)

round 3: AFF: HSR
T
Spending
same case about
2nr: T (even more lawls)

==NCFL @ CKM== 
round 1: James Logan (VTS)
1nc - Regional council CP, ptx, t-communications, t-in the U.S, oil, case
2nr - t- communications

Round 4: I'm not really sure.. (Structural Violence)
1nc - Poverty Reps K, Cap, F/W, case
2nr - Cap


==Golden Desert== 

Round 3: Rowland Hall AK (Hillman)
1NC: Jouisance K, F/W, Ptx, Hillman is a fucker
2nc: F/W
1nr K, Case
2nr: F/W

Round 5: Damien SL (CCS)
1NC: Luke, Ptx, T, CP case
2NC: CP Ptx
1NR: T case
2nr : DA


==Stanford== 

Round 2: Sage Ridge CL (PPSP)
1nc: T military, Militarism, Case
2nr: Militarism and case

Round 3: CPS HJ (Mayport)
1nc: Sea Basing CP, F-35 tradeoff, Militarism, T, Case
2nr: CP, DA, Case

Round 6: GBN MS (Ports Dredging)
1nc: Crimthinc K and Case
2nr: Crimthinc and Manufacturing Adv

==Berkeley== 

Round 2: Torrey Pines (CCS)
1nc: Luke, XO, Ptx, T-Pipelines, Case
2nr: Luke and Case

Round 3: Rowland Hall St Marks (Homelessness)
1nc, F/W, Kevin Carter K, Nomadism Turns on case
2nr: Kevin Carter and Case

Round 6: Meadows (NIB)
1nc: FX-T, Fem K of Econ, XO, Ptx, Case (Stim and P3s turns)
2nr: Fem K of Econ and Case