==Contact Us== 
Richard Huang: richard22huang@gmail.com
Eliot Forster-Benson: eliottcfb@gmail.com
Feel free to email us anytime.
=Affirmative= 
==**1AC Weston**== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan Text</span>=== 
**Plan: The United States Federal Government should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure by investing in enhanced detection for chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons at US ports.**
----
===Inherency=== 
**Congress will not act to improve port security now**
**Stamford Advocate**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">, **2012** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(May 9, “Maritime Industry Awaits Action in Congress”, [[http://www.stamfordadvocate.com/news/article/Martime-industry-awaits-action-in-Congress-3544112.php]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The maritime businesses should not … action on maritime-related legislation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Entry through US ports is easy now – screening is inadequate</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jim **Kouri**, Vice President of the National Association of Chiefs of Police, **2012** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(CPP, February 22, U.S. bound cargo remains vulnerable to terrorists, WMD [[http://www.examiner.com/law-enforcement-in-national/u-s-bound-cargo-remains-vulnerable-to-terrorists-wmd]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It may seem unbelievable to … in the U.S. and Europe. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less than 3% of cargo entering US ports is scanned</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Janice **Hahn**, US Representative, **2012**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">([[http://hahn.house.gov/press-release/rep-hahn-congressional-leader-ports-wins-passage-port-security-amendment]], May 9, “Rep. Hahn - Congressional Leader on Ports - Wins Passage of Port Security Amendment”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unfortunately less than 3% of … of hundreds of local businesses.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Department of Homeland Security is not scanning containers </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Laura **Richardson**, US Representative (D-CA), **2012** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Congressional Documents and Publications, May 9, Congresswoman [[@http://w3.nexis.com/new/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T14683658970&returnToId=20_T14683673387&csi=247474&A=0.13662523131856086&sourceCSI=162599&indexTerm=%23PE000A0V6%23&searchTerm=Laura%20Richardson%20&indexType=P|Laura Richardson ]]Asks GAO to Examine Port Security Vulnerabilities; Rep. [[@http://w3.nexis.com/new/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T14683658970&returnToId=20_T14683673387&csi=247474&A=0.13662523131856086&sourceCSI=162599&indexTerm=%23PE000A0V6%23&searchTerm=Laura%20Richardson%20&indexType=P|Laura Richardson ]]News Release)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Today, Congresswoman [[@http://w3.nexis.com/new/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T14683658970&returnToId=20_T14683673387&csi=247474&A=0.13662523131856086&sourceCSI=162599&indexTerm=%23PE000A0V6%23&searchTerm=Laura%20Richardson%20&indexType=P|Laura Richardson ]]submitted … security gaps that currently exist."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Customs-Trade Partnership and Container Security Initiative fail </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Compliance is the weaker link … individual companies shipping the goods.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Port security isn’t getting funding</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jesse **Hereford**, Vice Chairman of the Border Trade Alliance, **2012** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(May 1, “House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security Hearing; "Using Technology to Facilitate Trade and Enhance Security at Our Ports of Entry." [[@http://homeland.house.gov/sites/homeland.house.gov/files/Testimony%20-%20Hereford.pdf|p://homeland.house.gov/sites/homeland.house.gov/files/Testimony%20-%20Hereford.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In port security, much like … dwindling human and technological resources. </span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terror</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The risk of a terror attack involving weapons of mass destruction is increasing</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Robert **Galluci**, President, John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, **2012**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(April 5, Huffington Post, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-gallucci/nuclear-terrorism_b_1406712.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We should all be concerned … certainty than a nuclear weapon.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorists can use ports as weapons conduits</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** and Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf|www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The need to secure ports … arsenal within the nation’s borders.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lack of security means terrorists could detonate a weapon of mass destruction – WMD – in a US port</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The disruption of port operations … loss and/or loss of life.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WMDs can be moved through shipping containers</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Containers provide terrorist a method … them to execute malicious intentions.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An Improvised Explosive Device (IED) attack on a port will directly shut it down</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The second scenario considered localized … inducing fear in its customers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Use of WMD in a port will destroy nearby population centers</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf|www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Beyond their economic role, the … as airports and highway networks.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A successful nuclear terrorist attack would cause a police state </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mohamed **Sid-Ahmed**, Al-Ahram Weekly political analyst, **2004** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Al-Ahram Weekly, "Extinction!" 8/26, no. 705, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What would be the consequences … if humankind is to survive.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorist attack sparks global depression</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Richard **Haas**, President, Council on Foreign Relations, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(PREVENTING CATASTROPHIC NUCLEAR TERRORISM, March,http://www.cfr.org/content/-publications/attachments/NucTerrCSR.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A nuclear attack by terrorists … major gaps in policy remain.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Any nuclear attack would devastate the global economy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Matthew C. **Weinzierl**, Council of Economic Advisers Economist, **2004**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The National Interest, "The Cost of Living: The Economics of Preventing Nuclear Terrorism," Spring, LN)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear terrorism presents an unparalleled … is more urgent and frightening.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Seaports are terrorist targets, attacks disrupt the economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf|www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Temporarily shutting down a major … desirable and effective for terrorists.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An attack on the LA-Long Beach ports would disrupt the US economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf|www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Combined, the complex is the … could disrupt the U.S. economy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even a small nuclear attack would instantly collapse the economy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">John Kenneth **Galbraith**, Harvard Economics Prof, **2000**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(“Economic Aspects,” [[http://www.reachingcriticalwill.org/legal/nwc/mon1galb.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Such is the vulnerability of … of one small nuclear weapon.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retaliation means terror attack causes extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Greg **Easterbrook**, senior editor with The New Republic, **2001**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(November, p. www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0111/01/gal.00.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorists may not be held … in a dozen Muslim countries.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact of a terror attack means the risk cannot be dismissed</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Virginia Pilot**, **2012**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(February 5, [[http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-%E2%80%98boom-box%E2%80%99]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They look harmless enough. And … that came through Hampton Roads.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This attack will be nuclear-secret documents prove terrorists have the necessary material</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Graham **Allison**, Prof @ Harvard, **2010**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Foreign Policy, A Failure to Imagine the Worst, 25 January, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The U.S. national security establishment's … U.S. borders illegally last year.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Regional Al Qaeda affiliates are growing</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rick **Nelson**, CSIS, **2011**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Confronting and Uncertain Threat: The Future of Al Qaeda and its Associated Movements, September 7, [[http://csis.org/publication/confronting-uncertain-threat]], p. X)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Al Qaeda and associated movements … individuals based in the West.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Demographic trends indicate the terror threat will grow</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rick **Nelson**, CSIS, **2011**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Confronting and Uncertain Threat: The Future of Al Qaeda and its Associated Movements, September 7, [[http://csis.org/publication/confronting-uncertain-threat]], p. X)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to a CSIS study … potential exists for AQAM infiltration.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorists being released from jails, anti-US sentiment still strong, radicalization due to moderates selling out</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Daniel L. **Byman**, Director of Research, [[http://www.brookings.edu/saban.aspx|Saban Center for Middle East Policy]], **2011**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(September 1,[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2011/0901_al_qaeda_byman.aspx]] Al Qaeda’s Future: How Likely is Another Attack?)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fortunately for Zawahiri, the operating [[http://www.almasryalyoum.com/en/node/484767|… made and will make again]]. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Al Qaeda is still a threat – Complacency about Osama’s death increases the risk al Qaeda will rebound</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Max **Boot**, National Security at CFR, **2011** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Max, August 8, “A False Sense of National Security” Los Angeles Times, [[http://www.cfr.org/national-security-and-defense/false-sense-national-security%29|http://www.cfr.org/national-security-and-defense/false-sense-national-security)]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. government officials are probably … or later they may succeed.</span>
===Solvency=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US needs to increase funding and support for port security</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jon D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz**, Public Policy Institute of California, **2006**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Costs, www.ppic.org/content/pubs/repo-rt/r_606jhr.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, the U.S. government should … need maintenance, repair, and upgrading. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Increasing investment will protect ports</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wendy **Keefer**, Lawyer at Keefer and Keefer, **2008** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Container Port Security: A Layered Defense Strategy to Protect The Homeland and The International Supply Chain; CAMPBELL LAW REVIEW Vol. 30:139; [[http://law.campbell.edu/lawreview/articles/30-1-139.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Priority should be given to … focus on technology is appropriate.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Improved sensor placement solves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James** **et** **al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Several studies have examined the … the container to be effective.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">All ports should be equipped with nuclear and radiation detection devices</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The CBP works closely with … the nuclear and radioactive detectors.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Improving port security infrastructure deters terror attacks</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lt. Morgan **James et al**, Naval Postgraduate School, **2007**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Port Security Strategy 2012, edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The objective of deterrence has … an effective manifest screening process.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New advances in screening technology means no delays</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jerrold L. **Nadler**, Edward J. **Markey and** Bennie G. **Thompson**, Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, **2012**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse; June 26, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Homeland Security says it uses … no longer risk such delays.</span>
=Negative= 
==Weston== 
**VS. Weston - NextGen**
States CP, Federalism DA, Taxes DA
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]