2AC Email Address for Cites and Questions and what not: buttermilksyrup@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
===1AC - Meadows=== 


Observation 1 is Inherency

The US currently lacks sufficient ice breaker capabilities to open up sea lanes of transportation around the United States
Beilinson, Deputy Editor of Popular Mechanics, 12 (Jerry, February 17th, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now,” Popular Mechanics, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/]]infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195)

Coast Guard cutters are stationed in the Bering Sea . . . . . Building up America’s fleet of icebreakers will resolve such situations while allowing the Coast Guard to react to a changing world.


Melting polar ice doesn’t matter – actually increases demand for icebreakers due to increased arctic travel
O’Rourke, specialist in naval affairs, 6/14. Ronald O’Rourke “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress.” Congressional Research Service. http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf

Although polar ice is diminishing due . . . . . during summer months when there’s open water.” 4

Plan Text
Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its icebreaker fleet.



Observation 2 is the Advantages

Advantage 1 is US Sea Lanes

Scenario one is China

China has successfully launched icebreakers, allows them access to Artic Shipping lanes
Viglundson and Doyle 12 (Jon Viglundson And Alister Doyle, Reuters August 18, 2012 Chinese icebreaker crosses Arctic Ocean
http://www.vancouversun.com/technology/Chinese+icebreaker+crosses+Arctic+Ocean/7110681/story.html#ixzz25wCEer00)

An icebreaker has become the first . . . . . a route closer to the North Pole.

Icebreakers are key to allow the United States to use Artic Sea Lanes, allow US international economic dominance and checks Chinese economic expansion

Treadwell , ’11 (Mead Treadwell, Lieutenant Governor of Alaska, December 1, “America is Missing the Boat” Congressional Testimony United States House of Representatives Committee Transportation on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyCGMT/2011-12-1-Treadwell.pdf)

Changes in the Arctic are creating opportunities in . . . an indispensable role in Arctic exploration as they have one-fifth of the world’s population.

Relative US economic strength key to preventing aggressive Chinese adventurism and war over Taiwan

Pape, PolSci Prof at UChicago, ‘9 (Robert, January, “Empire Falls” http://nationalinterest.org/article/empire-falls-2952)

Over time, America's power is fundamentally a result of its economic . . .. With 30 percent of the world's product, the United States could imagine maintaining this hope. Nearing 20 percent, it cannot.

US-China war over Taiwan goes nuclear, escalation is perceived as rational

Glaser, PolSci Prof at George Washington, ’11 (Charles, March/April, “Will China’s Rise Lead to War?” Foreign Affairs, Vol 90 Issue 2, EbscoHost)

ACCOMMODATION ON TAIWAN? THE PROSPECTS for avoiding intense military . . . . U.S.-Chinese relations.

Scenario 2 is the United States

Icebreakers key to US involvement in Sea Lanes, boosts US economic growth.

SLD 11 (Second Line Defense, interviewing Jeffrey Garret, USCG Rear Admiral (Ret.), 2/12/11, "Operating in the Arctic", [[@http://www.sldinfo.com/operating-in-the-arctic-resourcing-for-the-21st-century/]])

SLD: That gets back to your endurance point.. . .icebreakers their mobility will be significantly limited. The defense side of the Arctic will return as a significant issue as well.

Longterm US economic decline tanks the global economy

Mandelbaum, Director of Foreign Policy Program at John Hopkins, ‘5 (Michael, “The Case for Goliath: How America Acts as the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century” p 192-195)

Although the spread of nuclear weapons, . . . the United States would in this way resemble a fleet of cars without gasoline.

Makes every conflict go nuclear, biggest internal link to escalation of conflict

Friedberg, IR Professor at Princeton, ‘8 (Aaron, “The Dangers of a Diminished America” Wall Street Journal)

Then there are the dolorous consequences of a . . . . stiff price tag of continued American leadership.


Advantage 2 is Arctic War

Artic Conflict coming now, conflicts over resources, contested land.

Rogate and Ferrara 12 (Chiara Rogate M.A. candidate at The Johns Hopkins University’s SAIS
Bologna Center & Marco Ferrara,; M.A.I.A. candidate at The Johns Hopkins University’s SAIS Bologna Center, Climate Change and Power Shifts in the Arctic Region
Bologna Center Journal for International Affairs Vol 15, 8/21/12 [[http://bcjournal.org/volume-15/climate-change-and-power-shifts-in-the-arctic-region.html]] )

The effects of climate change can be paradoxical. . . . claims and plant a foothold in this contested area.

Ice breakers are a key to keeping up – failure to modernize the fleet ensures that the US will fall behind

Tyler Davis, Young Leaders Program at Heritage Foundation, 11 (December 9, 2011The Lone Icebreaker: U.S. Sovereignty in the Arctic,” [[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone-icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/]], Heritage foundation)

The United States Coast Guard is being left behind in the Arctic. . ., something must be done. If the U.S. does not act fast, it will come in last in the race for the Arctic.

Ice breakers are the biggest internal link to all US activity in the Arctic – the plan is key to ensuring US leadership

O’Rourke, 12. Ronald O’Rourke specialist in naval affairs“Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress.” Congressional Research Service. http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf

*[The study] concludes that future capability and capacity gaps . . . The current demand for this mission requires continuous icebreaker presence in both Polar Regions.

Icebreakers stop Artic Conflict, key to deter Russian Aggression
Dowd 11 [The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic Appeared in the American Legion Magazine Authors: Alan Dowd, Alan W. Dowd is a Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute, conducting research into defence and security. Release Date: December 1, 2011https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979]

With or without the treaty, it’s only prudent for the U.S. . . .Canada faces even greater challenges in defending its Arctic interests.

Arctic Conflicts go nuclear – specifically between US and Russia
Wallace and Staples, 10 (Michael Wallace and Steven Staples. *Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia AND President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue,”[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]]) DG

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition. . . . of climate change.” 62


That’s the biggest existential risk
Bostrom 2002 (Nick [at Yale Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies].. "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)

A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals. . . since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.


Contention 3 is Solvency

Coast Guard owned and operated Icebreakers are key for US presence in the artic.
Jones 6 (Anita, Ph.D in computer science @ Carnegie Mellon, Director of Defense Research and Engineering for the U.S. Department of Defense 1993-97, researcher & director @ National Academy of Sciences, prof @ U of Virginia, 9/26/6, “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD:

AN ASSESSMENT OF U.S. NEEDS”, Congressional Testimony, [[http://www7.nationalacademies.org/ocga/testimony/Polar_Icebreakers_in_a_Changing_World.asp]])

Projecting an active and influential presence in the polar regions requires that the United States . . . by the U.S. Coast Guard.

Ice breakers solve US Presence and Economic Development

NRC et al 07 (National Research Council , Polar Research Board,Marine Board (MB)Earth and Life Studies (DELS)Transportation Research Board, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard , “ Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs.” Online PDF at http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=11753#orgs )

From a strategic, longer-term perspective, two new Polar class icebreakers will far better position . . an up-front decision to build two new polar icebreakers will allow economies in the design and construction process and provide a predictable cost reduction for the second ship.


===1AC - Silver and Black=== 

Everything from before except this card instead of Bellinson

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">US Icebreaker fleet is unprepared for Artic presence</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Myers 2012</span> (Thursday, Nov. 22, 2012
U.S. is woefully unprepared to patrol, secure vital Arctic region
By Seth Andre Myershttp://www.statesman.com/news/news/opinion/us-is-woefully-unprepared-to-patrol-secure-vital-a/nTB2y/)

In the final presidential debate,. . . several new Arctic patrol ships.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]


For some reason my partner hasn't put up any neg files. I'll put all neg strats from our tournaments together and I'll get the files up ASAP


Meadows Round 2 vs CPS (Port Dredging)
T-New
States CP
Elections
Capitalism
Case - heg is bad and you should feel bad for running it

2NC: CP/Case
1NR: Elections
2NR: Elections/case

Meadows Round 4 vs Damien (Icebreakers)
T - TI
LOST CP
Elections
Cap
Case

2NC: Cap
1NR: T and Case
2NR: Answering conditionality and case turns. 1AR went all in on theory.



Meadows Round 6 vs Juan Diego (DAR)

T- Mil
Adv CP (Mil pres in South China sea and negotiate over Spratley Islands)
Elections
Cap
Case

2NC: Elections/Case
1NR: CP/Case
2NR: CP/Case


Silver and Black Round 1 vs GBN (Port Dredging)
T-Expedited
TIGER CP
Fiscal Cliff
Cap
Case

2NC: T/Cap/Case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff
2NR: T


Silver and Black Round 3 (Inland Waterways)
T-Throughout
TIGER CP
Fiscal Cliff
Luke
Case

2NC: CP/Case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff/A little more case D

2NR: CP/Fiscal Cliff