[[toc]]
**Aff Cites:** ackpope1996@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
=***1ac= 


=Plan Text= 


**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in expedited port deepening projects in the United States.**


=Economy= 


**Contention 1 – seaport competitiveness**

**Obama has expedited approval for projects, but not allocated funds – aff is still inherent**
**Morgan and Rabin 7/19** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Miami Herald reporter, environment reporter (Curtis and Charles, “White House Speeds Up Permits, Offers No New Cash For PortMiami Dredge Project”, The Miami Herald, July 21 2012, [[http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/07/19/2902727/white-house-speeds-up-permits.html]])//CB//</span>
//__The White House on Thursday …__// expediting all remaining federal reviews//__.”__

**The Panama Canal expansion will … compete for post-Panamax ships**
**Bridges 2011 –**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21</span>st<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, </span>[[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Darcy.pdf)/MM| http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf)//MM]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the birth of our … </span><span class="Underline">exports and imports through ports. </span>
* <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to these near-term challenges, we know that the U.S. population is forecast to grow by 100 million - a 30 percent increase - before the middle of the 2lst century. And many of the goods used by this population will flow through seaports.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So are we ready? </span><span class="Underline">While … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to seaports. We cannot wait. </span>

**The perception of a federal commitment … – this will collapse the recovery**
**Calhoun 11**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">-- President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc (Rick, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest, </span>[[http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/889143450?accountid=14667]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">”) EL</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Just like the nation itself, </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">our inland waterways transportation system.</span>

**Federal port infrastructure funding is … __uncertain commitment__ prevents new projects**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Szakonyi 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— associate editor of the Journal of Commerce (Mark, “The Hill Ramping Up Dredging Efforts”, Journal of Commerce, 5/7, ProQuest) EL</span>

__The push by U.S. ports for …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Engineers received last time around. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"This is a significant development. It wasn't so long ago that (the corps) only received $750 million," said Paul Bea, principal of PHB Public Affairs, a maritime consulting firm. </span>
__Ports will actually get__ //less …// __tackling port needs__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Holliday said. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Realize America's Maritime Promise Act, or RAMP Act, has been the major driver in convincing Congress the HMTF needs reform and more spending is needed. The legislation was included in the House's 90-day extension, which paved the way for the chamber to begin conferencing with the Senate on the surface transportation bill. The Senate has similar but less forceful language in its two-year, $109 billion plan. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This boosts the chances that HMTF reform language will make it in the final version of the transportation bill, but it's just the first step in blocking appropriators from shifting money out of the fund for non-dredging purposes. Even if the RAMP Act language is adopted, it's not a mandate. Supporters would have to call a point of order in appropriation committees to slap the hands of would-be siphoners, Bea said. </span>
__Despite the positive signs for …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">there is for federal help. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bea said maritime advocates and legislators are attempting to figure out how they can get projects funded and authorized in new ways. One such approach is by Sen. Lindsay Graham, R-S.C., to create a national assessment of which ports should be deepened. Plans to create a program for prioritization in authorization and funding come with their own set of problems, however, Holliday said. "When you start prioritizing ports, you begin picking winners and losers," he said. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aside from skepticism of the … , more meaningful long-term decisions. </span>

**Federal regulations __prevent__ other actors … process and increase funding solves**
**Anderson, 11**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> –Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) (A. Paul, “testimony of A. Paul Anderson Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) for the Record of the united States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment Hearing: “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?””, October 26, 2011, </span>[[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Darcy.pdf)/MM| http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Anderson.pdf)//MM]]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">With increasingly larger ships calling … infrastructure projects is </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">fundamentally broken</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>


**And these federal regulations mean … the federal government expedites construction**
**Nagle, 2012**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">- President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before the United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subommittee”, Budget Hearing- U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Assistant Secretary, Chief of Engineers, March 7, 2012, </span>[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)/MM|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)//MM]]

<span class="Underline">First, </span>the funding level of … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">challenges of today and tomorrow.</span>



**Seaport competitiveness is the vital … __over 3 trillion__ to the economy**
**Nagle, 11**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> --- president and chief executive officer of the American Association of Port Authorities (December 2011, Kurt, Industry Today, “Association: American Association of Port Authorities; Port-Related Infrastructure Investments Can Reap Dividends,” vol. 14, no. 3, </span>[[@http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F370]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">It seems </span><span class="Underline">the U</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="Underline">S</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">among the limited investment options.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">For centuries, US seaports – and the connecting waterways – have served as a vital economic lifeline, bringing goods and services to people around the world and delivering prosperity to our nation. They facilitate trade and commerce, create jobs, secure our borders, support our military and serve as stewards of valuable coastal environmental resources.</span>
Seaports are the primary gateway … <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">define our standard of living.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Investments in America’s port infrastructure and the intermodal connections that serve seaports – both land and waterside – foster prosperity and provide an opportunity to bolster the country’s economic and employment recovery.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">ECONOMIC IMPACT: HUGE</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Currently, </span>international trade accounts for … <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, seaports are a proven job creator.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to handling international trade, US seaports – and the waterways that serve them – represent important transportation modes for the movement of domestic freight. Greater utilization of America’s coastal and inland water routes for freight transportation complements other surface transportation modes – providing a safe and secure alternative for cargo while offering significant energy savings and traffic congestion relief.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">VIEW FROM WATERSIDE</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As US investment in its … </span><span class="Underline">facilities.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Look at what’s happening:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> India plans to invest $60 billion – including both public and private funds – to create seven new major ports by 2020. Expect this to have a substantial impact: It will handle the anticipated rapid expansion of merchandise exports, forecasted to triple by 2017.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Brazil expects tonnage at its coastal ports to more than double (to 1.7 billion tons) by 2022. In response, the nation is committing $17 billion to port improvements (including $14 billion from the private sector).</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> In Great Britain, DP World (the world’s fourth-largest marine terminal operator) plans to spend $2.5 billion on London’s Deep-Water Gateway, the country’s first such development in the last 20 years.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, </span>in the U<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited</span>S<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates, </span>… <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">to maintain federal navigation channels.</span>

**Lack of port deepening forces __… break__ the US shipping industry**
**Weakley 8**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Realize America’s Maritime promise, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association (James, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, </span>[[http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)//MM//</span>

Port-related jobs are critical … //<span style="font-size: 8pt;">would quickly lose its efficiencies. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Harbor Maintenance Tax and the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund were established in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 1986. The Trust Fund (HMTF) applies a 0.125 percent ad valorem tax on the value of commercial cargo loaded or unloaded on vessels using Federally-maintained channels. The tax is only assessed on imports and domestic cargo, as it was ruled as an unconstitutional assessment on exports in a 1998 Supreme Court ruling. This Fund - that you, members of Congress - established, was authorized to be utilized to recover 100 percent of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers eligible Operations and Maintenance (O&M) expenditures for commercial navigation, along with 100 percent of the O&M cost of the St. Lawrence Seaway, certain costs of NOAA, and the costs to Customs to collect the tax. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fixing the Problem</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ladies and gentleman - would it … not merely for deficit reduction.</span>//

//**Increasing exports decrease the trade deficit and makes growth sustainable – prevents investment bubbles and collapses**//
//**Istrate et al, 10**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> -- senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Emilia, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings, </span>[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf]]//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>// NK

<span class="Underline">Exports Could Contribute to the Rebalancing of the U.S. Economy and a Lower Trade Deficit</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the most of the … its distance from trading partners.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are a number of potential explanations for why the United States under-exports. First, the dollar is over-valued relative to the currencies of a number of important U.S. trading partners.29 In addition, U.S. companies have been focused on catering to the large and growing U.S market. About one percent of U.S. companies exported in 2008.30 It seems that many small and medium companies lack information regarding exports and perceive exporting as a risky endeavor.31 Finally, many countries still put up significant trade barriers against U.S. companies. In the absence of free trade agreements with emerging countries, U.S. companies had additional incentives to locate production abroad in order to take advantage of these foreign markets. For example, while nominal total exports grew by 10 percent annually between 1994 and 2007, nominal sales of U.S. affiliates located in foreign countries increased by almost 18 percent a year during the same period.32</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whatever the reasons why the … </span>to many long-standing difficulties<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Boosting economic competitiveness is vital to preventing military retrenchment – risks great power wars**
**Khalilzad, ’11**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Bush’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and former director policy planning at the DOD (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8-11, </span>[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span><span class="Underline">economic and fiscal trends … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">rates). These are promising options. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The key remaining question is whether the president and leaders of both parties on Capitol Hill have the will to act and the skill to fashion bipartisan solutions. Whether we take the needed actions is a choice, however difficult it might be. It is clearly within our capacity to put our economy on a better trajectory. In garnering political support for cutbacks, the president and members of Congress should point not only to the domestic consequences of inaction — but also to the geopolitical implications.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the United States gets its economic and fiscal house in order, it should take steps to prevent a flare-up in Asia. The United States can do so by signaling that its domestic challenges will not impede its intentions to check Chinese expansionism. This can be done in cost-efficient ways.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While China’s economic rise enables its military modernization and international assertiveness, it also frightens rival powers. The Obama administration has wisely moved to strengthen relations with allies and potential partners in the region but more can be done.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some Chinese policies encourage other parties to join with the United States, and the U.S. should not let these opportunities pass. China’s military assertiveness should enable security cooperation with countries on China’s periphery — particularly Japan, India, and Vietnam — in ways that complicate Beijing’s strategic calculus. China’s mercantilist policies and currency manipulation — which harm developing states both in East Asia and elsewhere — should be used to fashion a coalition in favor of a more balanced trade system. Since Beijing’s over-the-top reaction to the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to a Chinese democracy activist alienated European leaders, highlighting human-rights questions would not only draw supporters from nearby countries but also embolden reformers within China. </span>
<span class="Underline">Since the end of the … </span>, dangerous era of multi-polarity<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Expanding port infrastructure is vital to US global economic leadership**
**Kiefer et al, 2k** <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers (Jack, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, </span>[[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">) // CB</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2.2.2 Other Tangible Benefits </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indirect </span>benefits of Corps projects … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">by developments in international trade. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2.2.4 Lost Benefits</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are lost benefits associated with delays in the construction of harbor improvement projects. Costs increase with delays, not only because of inflation but because the construction process becomes distorted by available funds. Costs associated with delays can and have been estimated. Typically, a year’s delay in schedule leads to a penalty of more than 10 percent of project cost. This is sizable and should be considered when making cost-sharing policies. Cost-sharing policies should seek to insure that both public ports and the Federal government fund projects in a timely manner. There are also benefits foregone due to lost transportation cost savings with project delays.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Project delays affect the Nation in another way. Although these benefits are difficult to quantify, such effects are perhaps more important than those that can be measured. Delays create an uncertain atmosphere that can impact decisions to develop infrastructure elsewhere. Container ports are very capital intensive and require long term planning. Massive containerships are rapidly being put into service at ports throughout the world. Without a clear signal of intent to accommodate these vessels in the United States, necessary ports and facilities may be built elsewhere. Once major investments are made elsewhere, the full efficiencies of large containerships in the form of lower transportation costs for general cargo may be lost to the Nation for a long time to come. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2.3 Geographical Incidence of International Trade</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Public ports generally have a regional or local economic development mandate along with authorizations to improve harbor facilities. This does not mean, however, that local economies near ports capture all or most of the benefits associated with international trade. For example, when a port unloads crude petroleum from a ship, it charges a fee that generates revenues for the port and the local community. But imported oil also fuels cars and homes throughout the Nation. Likewise, when a port loads grain or coal onto a ship for export, farmers in the U.S. heartland benefit as do coal miners in the hills of West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Kentucky. Container trade benefits all regions of the country as well. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As shown in Table 2-3, fifteen </span>__U.S. …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">destined to sites within California.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[table omitted]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2.4 Conclusion </span>
__The benefits of harbor improvements …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to a handful of coastal states.</span>

**Economic leadership prevents economic collapse—leadership key to resilience**
**Mandelbaum**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**5**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Although the spread of nuclear … </span>__a fleet of cars without gasoline.__

**That goes nuclear without leadership**
**Mandelbaum, 5**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 224]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">At best, an American withdrawal … </span>__large numbers, of nuclear weapons__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




=Agriculture= 


**Contention 2 – agriculture**

**U.S. agriculture exports are facing a crisis of competitiveness**
**AgriMoney, 2/20**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - investors' link to the food chain. The increasing numbers of mouths to feed, the demand for ever-more sophisticated diets, and the potential for turning food into fuel has turned the growing business into big business. Agriculture, to which financial markets owe a debt of history, is back at the forefront of investment thinking.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“US crop exports face 'crisis of competitiveness'”, Agrimoney.Com, 2/20/12, [[http://www.agrimoney.com/news/us-crop-exports-face-crisis-of-competitiveness--4179.html)/GP|http://www.agrimoney.com/news/us-crop-exports-face-crisis-of-competitiveness--4179.html)//GP]]</span>

__US grain exporters face a "crisis …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including those which produce vomitoxin. </span>

**Sustaining US agricultural exports depends … __capacity upgrades__ in port infrastructure**
**Khachatryan and Casavant 11**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">—Research Associate and Director/Professor at the Freight Policy Transportation Institute at the School of Economic Sciences at Washington State Unviersity (Hayk and Ken, THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">IMPROVEMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE, </span>[[http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, EL)</span>

__The efficient and affordable freight …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the world through the 16 ports.</span>

**The Panama Canal expansion will shift global trade patterns away from the Gulf Coast without port upgrades – this cuts off US grain exports**
**Stallman, 2012**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – President of the American Farm Bureau (Bob, “Update Our Ports or Miss the Boat”, American Farm Bureau, April 2012, </span>[[http://www.fb.org/index.php?action=newsroom.agendas&year=2012&file=ag04-2012.html]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">) //MGD</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Someone once said that it’s not leaving port, but coming in, that determines the success of a voyage. While this has some truth to it, the port that one departs from is just as important to a successful endeavor.</span>
__It may surprise many that … thrive in the world market.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If You Build It, They Will Come</span>
__Even more surprising than the U.S. … Asia never had access before.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Right of Way, Gross Tonnage Rules</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The expansion of the Panama Canal will allow significantly larger ships to move through the waterway. The project, expected to be completed in 2014, should increase cargo volume by an average of 3 percent per year, doubling the 2005 tonnage by 2025.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Currently, the largest ship able to pass through the canal can hold up to 3,500 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent unit, a measure used for capacity in container transportation). To maximize the canal’s new dimensions, shipbuilders are making larger vessels that are able to hold up to 12,000 TEUs and require 50-51 feet of draft.</span>
__These larger ships require deeper and wider shipping channels, greater overhead clearance, and larger cranes and shore infrastructure – all of which make the U.S. Gulf a non-trading player. Some U.S ports can accommodate the larger vessels. However, most cannot, including many ports that are very important to U.S. agricultural exports.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. exports approximately one-quarter … </span>__will literally miss the boat.__

**The collapse of U.S. agricultural competitiveness turns every impact and makes extinction inevitable**
**Lugar, 4**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – U.S. Senator – Indiana, (Richard, “Plant Power” Our Planet v. 14 n. 3, http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html</span>

__In a world confronted by global … of weapons of mass destruction__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the world population expected to grow from 6 billion people today to 9 billion by mid-century, the demand for affordable food will increase well beyond current international production levels. People in rapidly developing nations will have the means greatly to improve their standard of living and caloric intake. Inevitably, that means eating more meat. This will raise demand for feed grain at the same time that the growing world population will need vastly more basic food to eat.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Complicating a solution to this problem … </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">disastrous for the entire globe.</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Productivity revolution</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To meet the expected demand for food over the next 50 years, we in the United States will have to grow roughly three times more food on the land we have. That’s a tall order. My farm in Marion County, Indiana, for example, yields on average 8.3 to 8.6 tonnes of corn per hectare – typical for a farm in central Indiana. To triple our production by 2050, we will have to produce an annual average of 25 tonnes per hectare.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can we possibly boost output that much? Well, it’s been done before. Advances in the use of fertilizer and water, improved machinery and better tilling techniques combined to generate a threefold increase in yields since 1935 – on our farm back then, my dad produced 2.8 to 3 tonnes per hectare. Much US agriculture has seen similar increases.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But of course there is … </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">the health of our planet</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



=Solvency= 


**Contention 4 – solvency**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The federal government is key – … action is vital to __leadership__</span>**
**AAPA, 11**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, </span>[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)/GP|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)//GP]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over time these constitutional responsibilities … from federal </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">oversight and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> support.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For four centuries, beginning with the founding of the Jamestown colony, seaports have served as a vital economic lifeline for America by bringing goods and services to people, creating economic activity and enhancing the overall quality of life. Seaports continue to be the critical link for access to the global marketplace here in the United States handling more than 99 percent of cargoes. </span>
__Maintaining__ __our national infrastructure that …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">by then General George Washington. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Federalist Paper #42 written by James Madison, a case is made that the powers conferred by the Constitution for regulating commerce and establishing post roads are essential. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">He wrote: “Nothing which tends to facilitate the intercourse between the States can be deemed unworthy of the public care.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Back to Basics </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In these times of a tightening … </span>__in international trade and commerce__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Waterways </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pursuant to Article 1, Section 8 of the United States Constitution, Congress, by statute, has reserved jurisdiction over navigable waters for the federal government, which can determine how the waters are used, by whom, and under what conditions. As a result, the federal government takes the lead in building, maintaining, and operating the nation’s navigation channels. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Authority to construct and maintain navigation projects on behalf of the United States was granted to the Corps of Engineers in the General Survey Act of 1824. In 1826, Congress passed the first Rivers and Harbors Act and provided funds to the Corps to make specific navigation improvements to the Ohio, Mississippi, and Missouri Rivers. Congress has continued to appropriate funds for specific navigation projects and the Corps has played a dual role by assessing, as well as implementing, needed projects in federal navigation channels. In 1899, Congress enacted the Rivers and Harbors Act, which makes it unlawful to undertake any modifications of navigable water channels unless authorized by the Secretary of the Army on the recommendation of the Corps of Engineers. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is well established that </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Highways and Intermodal Connectors </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With interstate commerce and connectivity as the impetus, the federal role in ensuring a contiguous system of roads spanning the states has been implicit in our federal government since the writing of the Constitution. These powers were granted to Congress in Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution by the clauses describing </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the regulation of commerce with foreign nations and among the several states …” and the responsibility “to establish Post Offices and Post Roads.” As the timeline illustrates, since the founding of this great nation, our most visionary leaders have engaged in national infrastructure initiatives. The highway system as we know it today was largely borne out of the 1939 Bureau of Public Roads report commissioned by Franklin Delano Roosevelt titled Toll Roads and Free Roads, which proposed a map of a transcontinental national superhighway system. This led to President Eisenhower’s Federal-Aid Highway of 1956 and subsequent development of the Interstate System. Without the federal role in planning, coordinating and providing funding, our current system of inter-regional highways would not have been possible. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, this federal responsibility continues through the surface transportation programs funded largely by federal gas taxes. Highways, arterials and secondary roads that are identified as being important to the nation's economy, defense, and mobility are classified as part of the National Highway System (NHS) and are eligible for federal funds through the federal-aid program. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Road infrastructure that accesses major intermodal terminals, including seaports, are designated NHS connectors by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT). While accounting for less than one percent of total NHS mileage, this important infrastructure represents a critical link in the goods movement value chain, carrying truck traffic between transportation modes and to the broader network of the interstate system. According to the Federal Highway Administration, of the 616 total defined NHS intermodal connectors, 253 are connected to ocean and river ports. Of the 1,222 total miles defined as part of the NHS intermodal connectors, 532 miles are port-related infrastructure. Unfortunately, these roads are often inadequate and in poor condition, plagued by inadequate turning radii and shoulder deficiencies and have been found to have twice the percentage of mileage with pavement deficiencies when compared to non-interstate NHS routes according to a study conducted by USDOT. States and MPOs have traditionally assigned freight-focused projects a low priority when compared with passenger-related improvements. Due to their freight-focused nature, NHS connectors generally do not fare well in project selection within the State and MPO planning processes. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This critical infrastructure is more important than ever as our nation rebuilds the economy and creates jobs by expanding commerce through free trade agreements and increasing America’s exports and international competitiveness. These roads are key pieces of our connection to the world marketplace. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to their national … </span>//State and local planning processes////.//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Summary </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From the earliest days of … </span><span class="Underline">competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Federal leadership is vital to expediting new projects and coordinating federal agencies – it creates faster infrastructure development**
**Woodley Jr. 8**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">— Chairman – PIANC (Permanent International Association of Navigation Congresses) USA (John Paul, “Dredging key to keeping nation’s economy afloat”, Seaports Magazine, </span>[[http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Summer2008.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Summer) EL </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like many nations, </span>__the United … to improve intermodal connections__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; and </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• Explore opportunities for short-sea shipping to minimize the overland move and reduce highway and rail congestion. </span>
__I submit that the United … strong for generations to come.__

**The plan will allow the US to double exports in the next 5 years**
**USA Today 11**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – news agency (Larry Copeland, “A goal to be port of call for all; U.S. sites digging in to accommodate big ships,” USA Today, October 3, 2011, lexis)//CB</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It's just before noon on a recent weekday, and the nation's fastest-growing container shipping port is bustling with activity.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Massive, 10-story-high cranes, each shaped like an upside down "U," lift tractor-trailer-size containers onto and off cargo ships at dockside. A station checking for radioactivity in containers leaving the port clicks right along, while a non-stop stream of trucks enters and leaves the 1,200-acre facility.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The freight moving through here touches the lives of people in 15 states, some 44% of the nation's population.</span>
__Even more critically, as the USA seeks to double exports in the next five years, this is one of the nation's few major ports with a higher percentage of exports than imports.__
__Those exports – such as kaolin …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">elsewhere on the East Coast.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The problem: The port in Norfolk, Va., is the only one on the East Coast that has a channel deep enough to accommodate the larger vessels.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a result, other </span>__ports along … of needing to play catch-up."__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Officials say the Panama Canal expansion will mean some ships that previously had to deliver their freight to the generally deeper ports of the West Coast, where goods are moved mainly by rail across the nation, will be able to deliver goods more efficiently via all-water routes directly to East Coast ports. Officials such as Page Siplon, executive director of Georgia's Center of Innovation for Logistics, say there could be a 25% to 30% shift in freight shipping.</span>
__A long-sought Port of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Georgia's commissioner of economic development.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consumers across the Southeast could see a direct impact from the project.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Exporters will have lower costs of getting their goods to the world," says Billy Birdwell, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers, which will deepen Savannah's port channel once it's approved. "Therefore, they are saving money, able to hire more people, able to do more work. Goods coming in will cost less to ship in, which will ultimately be passed on to consumers."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ambitions to expand</span>
__In his 2010 State of the Union address, President Obama announced the goal of doubling the nation's exports in the next five years. **The nation cannot** meet that goal – or **compete successfully in an increasingly global economy – without modern ports capable of handling the biggest ships**.__
**__"Trade is going to …__** __it imports__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– 52.2% to 47.8% last year.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Officials here boast that 8.6% of all containerized goods that move in or out of the USA come through here; the port handles 12.4% of all containerized exports.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Savannah's port is a vital cog in Georgia's economy, second only to Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport as an economic driver. It's responsible for 7% of the state's total employment, sustaining nearly 300,000 full- and part-time jobs, directly and indirectly. It also generates $61.7 billion in annual sales, worth $2.6 billion in state and local taxes.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>**__the port's role in …__** __stop at the state border."__
__Now, the state is rushing headlong to ensure it holds onto that development and prosperity, trying to complete the harbor deepening as close as possible to 2014.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marooned at low tide</span>
__Savannah's channel is just 42 feet deep, making it one of the shallowest major ports on the East Coast. Officials here say that some vessels already have to wait for high tide before they can traverse the channel – an expensive undertaking.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>__We're already seeing exports …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, clothing, transistor radios and iPods.</span>
__The Port of Savannah formally asked the federal government to consider studying a deepening of the harbor in 1996. Congress authorized a federally funded study in 1999, and began multiple rounds of environmental, cost-benefit and engineering studies, coupled with multiple rounds of public comment.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A long process</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It typically takes about 10 years from the beginning of the study phase to a decision on such projects – essentially, approval from four federal agencies, the secretaries of Commerce, Interior and the Army, and the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to begin construction. Some frustrated officials here gripe that this is one of the longest-studied federal projects in history.</span>
__"It should have already been done," Foltz says. "Failing that, **it has to be done as quickly as possible, or commerce in the U.S. is going to suffer.**There's no doubt, it's got to get done."__
__No one seems sure when that might happen, though.__
__Funding for the $569 million **Savannah …**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">may delay the final decision."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A boon to consumers</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Corps of Engineers projects … roll cost savings into prices."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AJC International, a major exporter of beef, pork and poultry, exports 100 container loads of poultry through Savannah each week, says Eric Joiner, vice chairman and co-founder.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">He compares the harbor expansion project with a major airport lengthening a runway to handle new, larger passenger jets.</span>
__"It becomes an economic issue and a service issue," he says. "The steamship companies are going to go to those ports that can accommodate their ships. This will keep us very competitive."__








=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]