**Contact James:** 48james48@gmail.com
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Berkeley== 
===<span class="cite">Inherency</span>=== 
<span class="cite">1. Public transit infrastructure remains underinvested in, despite the stated goal of transportation policy, transportation legislation still favors highway construction and car travel.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bell and Cohen 09 </span>[Judith, President of PolicyLink, Larry, Founder and Executive Director of the Prevention Institute, PolicyLink, “The Transportation Prescription,” SM, http://www.convergencepartnership.org/atf/cf/%7b245a9b44-6ded-4abd-a392-ae583809e350%7d/transportationrx.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Current transportation means contribute to economic and racial segregation, things like one-use highways and inadequate public transit prevent low- income earners from living in metro areas.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Leadership Conference Education Fund 2011 </span>[Nation’s Premier Civil and Human Rights Coalition, Where We Need to Go: A Civil Rights Roadmap for Transportation Equity, “Transportation in America:
A Landscape of Inequality,” March 2011, SM, http://www.aapd.com/what-we-do/transportation/where-we-need-to-go.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. The increase in suburbanization and its related highway projects have created significant inequality in transportation for low-income people and racial minorities. Today’s transit projects are still disproportionately invested in for the benefit of the wealthy, and racial minorities remain underrepresented in decision-making processes for these roads. These policies lead to geographic segregation and further entrench the problems of income and racial inequality. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Leadership Conference Education Fund 2011 </span>[Nation’s Premier Civil and Human Rights Coalition, Where We Need to Go: A Civil Rights Roadmap for Transportation Equity, “How We Got Here: The Infrastructure of Transportation Inequality,” March 2011, SM, http://www.aapd.com/what-we-do/transportation/where-we-need-to-go.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. Low-income communities and communities of racial minorities suffer from inadequate transportation infrastructure that prevents them from using the infrastructure to their advantage but still makes them bear the burden of the system. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blackwell 09 </span>[Angela Glover, Founder and CEO of PolicyLink, PolicyLink, “The Transportation Prescription,” July 23, 2009, SM, http://www.convergencepartnership.org/atf/cf/%7b245a9b44-6ded-4abd-a392-ae583809e350%7d/transportationrx.pdf]

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan,</span>=== 
Thus the plan, The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in public transportation in urban areas. We Reserve the right to clarify.

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Income Inequality</span>=== 
<span class="cite">1. Lack of accessibility creates economic disadvantage, transportation inequality prevents the disadvantaged from getting jobs, education, healthcare, and has a negative effect on deprived communities. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis 11 </span>[David, Ph.D FCIT Senor Vice President of HDR Corporation, International Transport Forum, “Economic Perspectives on Transport and Equality, Discussion Paper No. 2011-09,” April 2011, SM, http://www.internationaltransportforum.org/jtrc/DiscussionPapers/DP201109.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Concentrated Poverty creates a costly downwards spiral for poor neighborhoods, and pulls even more people into poverty.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Drew 06 </span>[Rachel Bogardus, Research Analyst at the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, NHI Shelterforce Online Issue #147, “The Truth About Concentrated Poverty,” Fall 2006, SM, http://nhi.org/online/issues/147/concentratedpoverty.html]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Poverty is a form of structural violence, the status quo is in effect an ongoing thermo nuclear war against the poor.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abu-Jamal 1998</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mumia , “A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]]</span>


===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Segregation</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. Modern segregation did not stem from the slavery era, the “urban ghetto” is a more recent social construction created from the deliberate actions of local, state, and federal urban development programs.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seitles 96 </span>[Marc, Criminal Defense Lawyer, Journal of Land Use & Environmental Law, “The Perpetuation of Residential Racial Segregation in America: Historical Discrimination, Modern Forms of Exclusion, and Inclusionary Remedies,” 1996, SM, [[http://www.law.fsu.edu/journals/landuse/vol141/seit.htm]]]


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Segregation disappeared as an issue from public policy in the 1980s, the ignorance of this issue in both policymakers and the public has benefited the institutions that perpetuate this racism, and blinded those that could do something about it.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Massey and Denton 98 </span>[Douglas S, Professor of Sociology at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University, Nancy A, Professor of Sociology University at Albany, //American Apartheid//, “Chapter 13,” July 1998, SM, [[http://www.rci.rutgers.edu/~jdowd/masseydenton-apartheid.pdf]]]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Racial Segregation creates and perpetuates racism and negative stereotypes, integration has proven to be the best way to combat and solve racism.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seitles 96 </span>[Marc, Criminal Defense Lawyer, Journal of Land Use & Environmental Law, “The Perpetuation of Residential Racial Segregation in America: Historical Discrimination, Modern Forms of Exclusion, and Inclusionary Remedies,” 1996, SM, [[http://www.law.fsu.edu/journals/landuse/vol141/seit.htm]]]

4. Racism is modeled globally, plan is necessary to set a precedent to stop global racism
<span class="cite">Robinson 2000 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Randall, Harvard law Grad political activist and author, “The debt: What America owes to Blacks” pg. 123]</span>

5. Racism is an apriori issue, it makes all forms of violence inevitable. It must be rejected in every instance.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Memmi 2k </span>[MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]

===Solvency=== 
1. The current transportation system is no longer sustainable, only public transportation can solve any problem presented by current infrastructure.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bell and Cohen 09 </span>[Judith, President of PolicyLink, Larry, Founder and Executive Director of the Prevention Institute, PolicyLink, “The Transportation Prescription,” SM, http://www.convergencepartnership.org/atf/cf/%7b245a9b44-6ded-4abd-a392-ae583809e350%7d/transportationrx.pdf]

2. Transportation policy, like public transportation, that focuses on accessibility rather than simply mobility is key to solving inequality of race and class.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bell and Cohen 09 </span>[Judith, President of PolicyLink, Larry, Founder and Executive Director of the Prevention Institute, PolicyLink, “The Transportation Prescription,” SM, http://www.convergencepartnership.org/atf/cf/%7b245a9b44-6ded-4abd-a392-ae583809e350%7d/transportationrx.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Our discourse acts as another method of solvency, discussion of why this structural racism exists is just as important as the implementation of policy to solve it.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kubisch 06 </span>[Anne C, Director of the Roundtable on Community Change at The Aspen Institute, Poverty & Race Research Action Council, “Why Structural Racism? Why a Structural Racism Caucus?” November/ December 2006, SM, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.prrac.org/newsletters/novdec2006.pdf]]</span>]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. Individual Institutions matter, fixing one institution spills over.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grant-Thomas and Powell 06 </span>[Andrew, Ph.D Deputy Director of the Kirwan Institute, John, Professor of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at Moritz College of Law, Poverty & Race Research Action Council, “Toward a Structural Racism Framework,” November/ December 2006, SM, http://www.prrac.org/newsletters/novdec2006.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5. Transportation policy is a crucial civil rights issue to solve both racial and economic inequality. Open debate of these issues is key to ensure no community is left behind. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Leadership Conference Education Fund 2011 </span>[Nation’s Premier Civil and Human Rights Coalition, Where We Need to Go: A Civil Rights Roadmap for Transportation Equity, ‘Introduction,” March 2011, SM, http://www.aapd.com/what-we-do/transportation/where-we-need-to-go.pdf]
=Negative= 
**Whitman**
* **Spending & Case turns - 3**

**Berkeley**
* **D-Dev**
* **Fw and Case**

**Other**
* **Heidegger**
* **States CP and Immigration**
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]