[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Space Elevators Aff==
1AC – plan text

Plan: NASA should substantially increase its Space Elevator investment in the United States.
1AC – asteroids

Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time
Verschuur, 96 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)

In the past few years, [...] nature that will determine our fate.

This is the only existential risk and outweighs all impacts
Matheny, 7 – former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,”http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm)

Even if extinction events are improbable [...] humanity and those that threaten 100%.

Don’t gamble with the human race – being wrong just once guarantees extinction
Barbee 09 (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”,http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm)

It is generally accepted that statistics [...] making process for defense against NEOs.

The most conclusive studies prove that asteroids are a threat
Easterbrook, 8 (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June,http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)

A generation ago, the standard [...] race is riding on the plane.”;

Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close
CHAPMAN 04 (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)

The energetic interactions of an impacting [...] damaging and lethal consequences listed above.

The plan is key to solve --- two internal links
a) Detection --- that’s key to early warning --- the status quo fails
Edwards and Ragan, 6 (“Leaving the Planet by Space Elevator”, Bradley Ph.D. is the president of Carbon Designs Inc., the Director of Research at the Institute for Scientific Research and Philip, pg. 160)


b) Deflection --- only the plan enables effective response
Sayanagi 08, (Kunio M. Sayanagi, 4/4/08, “How to Deflect an Asteroid”, http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2008/04/how-to-deflect-an-asteroid.ars, Kunio M. Sayanagi is a postdoctoral research fellow in the Division for Geological and Planetary Sciences at the California Institute of Technology, SH)

By now, we have all [...] than developing technologies to deflect them.


NASA is key
NAC 2010 (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)

For more than a decade, [...] divert a NEO threatening an impact

1AC – environment

Plan removes the need for nitric acid in rocket fuel – acid destroys the environment
Science Ray 11 (5/19/11, http://scienceray.com/biology/ecology/about-nitric-acid/#ixzz1QJmsahzP)

Nitric acid is a naturally occur [...] them with the high pH water.


Perchlorate comes from rockets and causes endocrine disruption –spread is likely

Waldman 2 (Peter, reporter @ wsj, 12/27/2, http://www.kuratrading.com/HTMLArticles/perchlorate.htm)

Several of the nation's fastest- [...] open space for sprawling suburban communities.


Endocrine disruption causes extinction
Togawa 99 (Tatsuo, Institute of Biomaterials and Bioengineering – Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Technology in Society, August)

Advanced technology provides a comfortable life [...] race unless they are effectively controlled.

Extinction
Thomas 06 (William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm)

A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns that [...] shielding—but the stratosphere itself.

1AC – solvency

Tech exists now – the only barrier is investment
Edwards, 9 (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies, “Interview of Brad Edwards - Space Elevator Expert by Sander Olson”, 12/1/2009, http://nextbigfuture.com/2009/12/interview-of-brad-edwards-space.html)

Question: How much of an [...] technical but rather economic and political.

The plan solves – all challenges have been overcome
Edwards, 5 (BC, “A hoist to the heavens [space elevator],” director of research at the Institute for Scientific Research in West Virginia and president of Carbon Designs, Inc., ieee spectrum, volume 42 issue 8, UT Austin Library.)

Some of these challenges would be [...] the health risks would be small.


NASA spending now
space.com, 8/3/12 ("Private Space Taxis: Spaceflight Leaders Hail NASA's Funding Picks" www.space.com/16906-private-space-taxis-nasa-spaceflight-reaction.html)

NASA announced today (Aug. [...] Capability program (CCiCap) program.


TI spending now
AP 6/29/12(“Congress passes highway jobs bill, halts student loan rate hike,” Associated Press, http://www.omaha.com/article/20120629/NEWS/120629665/1685)

Congress has passed a massive measure [...] pipeline was dropped from the measure.

1AC – no war
No great power war —

No Nuclear War- Not profitable
Mueller 88 – Professor of Political Science, Ohio State (John, The Essential Irrelevance of Nuclear Weapons, International Security 13.2, jstor, AG)

Wars are not begun out of [...] have dominated world affairs since 1945.


Major war is obsolete – multiple factors prevent global conflict
Mandelbaum ’99 (Michael, American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, 2-25, Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series, “Is Major War Obsolete?” http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)

So if I am right, [...] haltingly but increasingly, like that.

Peacekeeping solves
Goldstein, 11** — professor emeritus of international relations at American University (Joshua S., “Think Again: War”, Foreign Policy, September/October 2011, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/think_again_war)

It does now. The early [...] around the world in containing war.


The Disad’s violent craving for a world without war begins in the mind – our enemies are not real, but psychological constructs maintained by group mentalities that ensure violence will continue.
Mack 1988 (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988.http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html, MT)

The threat of nuclear annihilation has [...] major focus of our educational system.

==Hypotesting/Trains Aff==

Contention One is Railways

Throughout my childhood I rode rails across the country with my family, first when we took a family trip to Chicago on this trip I only had a short interaction with trains but already I knew that I loved them, then again I rode a train across the country to bring my sister to college in MA, on this trip I was able to see more of the country and my excitement grew, then finally I took a trip to Seattle by rails, on this trip I was able to see the other coast of the US and my enthusiasm for trains was solidified. These experiences showed me first hand what the transportation system of railways throughout the united states is all about and gave me a great appreciation and love of our railways.

Trains are my childhood, and that’s why we need them.

For Jacob, trains also started at an early age. When he was little, he had a set of trains built for him by his Grandfather. From that time on, he knew that trains were some of his favorite toys. Thomas the tank engine was the #1 show to watch, and was necessary if you were to truly experience a day in the Boucher household. He would spend hours watching and playing with his trains, it brought his family together for “Train Time.” It helped create a bond with his family that opened the opportunity to learn and grow. Just as they were to me, trains were a crucial piece of Jacob’s childhood.

Thus, the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States. 

	
Contention Two is Theory

The judge should view the resolution as a possible truth claim. If the affirmative proves this truth claim we should win. The neg can argue inherency, multiple conditional advocacies or counterfactuals, or other arguments that disprove the entirety of the truth claim.
Zarefsky 76, Professor of Communication at Northwestern University, NDT Champion debater and coach, 76 [David "Argument as Hypothesis Testing." 18p.; Paper presented at the Annual Speech Communication Association Francisco, California, December] 

Forensics should offer laboratory experience in developing the argumentative perspective on communication. When the 
AND
as hypothesis-testing for the 0-impose of determining probable truth.  

Our advocacy is related to the resolution: 

First, the definition of transportation infrastructure specifically includes railways.
Trimbath 11 (Susanne, former Senior Research Economist in Capital Market Studies at Milken Institute, Senior Advisor on corporate community investment for the Business Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce and Contributing Editor at NewGeography.com. She teaches graduate finance, economics and accounting for Bellevue University and University of Liverpool (UK), “Transportation Infrastructure: paving the way,” http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructure/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf) 

Clearly define “transportation infrastructure” as the underlying structures that support the delivery of AND
The structures are: Transit, Highways, Airports, Railways, Waterways (Ports), Intermodal Links


Second, railroads are included in transportation systems.
Heintz 9 (James, Associate Research Professor and Associate Director – Political Economy Research Institute, et al., “How Infrastructure Investments Support the U.S. Economy: Employment, Productivity and Growth”, January, http://americanmanufacturing.org/files/peri_aam_finaljan16_new.pdf)

II. ASSESSMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS FOR THE U.S. In the previous 
AND
, through all sources, including renewables, and natural gas pipeline construction.

Contention Three is Risk


Modern risk society only increases the impact and potential of Black Swans. Risk solutions intertwine and are additive; each layer of complexity opens more possibilities for uncertainty.
Nassim Nicholas Taleb, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York University, and Distinguished Research Scholar, Said Business School, Oxford University, THE BLACK SWAN: THE IMPACT OF THE HIGHLY IMPROBABLE, 2007, p. 61.

And we may have learned things wrong from our ancestors. I speculate here that 
AND
in us. This instinct, in a word, is our predicament.


Current predictions models cannot account for non-linear occurances. Reality does not operate in any predictable fashion.
James N. Rosenau, Professor of International Affairs, George Washington University, “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs,” COMPLEXITY, GLOBAL POLITICS, AND NATIONAL SECURITY, September 1998, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/books/books%20-%201998/Complexity,%20Global%20Politics%20and%20Nat%27l%20Sec%20-%20Sept%2098/ch04.html.

Consequently, it is when our panacean impulses turn us toward complexity theory for guidance 
AND
, an orientation that is quite contrary to the concerns of policy makers.



 


=Negative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disadvantages-Elections DA]]Elections DA</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Obama wins now – lead in key swing states</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Easley 9/28</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Jonathon, staff writer “Polls: Obama leads in three swing states,” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/polls/259265-polls-obama-leads-in-three-swing-states]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">President </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: lime;">Obama leads</span>__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[…] on Friday morning. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">But the economy’s close</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">WSJ 9/28</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (“Obama, Romney tied on economy in Fox poll,” [[http://blogs.marketwatch.com/election/2012/09/28/obama-romney-tied-on-economy-in-fox-poll/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">If Mitt </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: lime;">Romney</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> needed […] taken Sept. 24 to 26. </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Independents hate all spending and would flip the election </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schoen 2/8</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Douglas E., political strategist, “The forgotten swing voter,”[[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Indeed, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.5pt;">recent polling</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> […]the same gridlock.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Romney kills relations with Russia – missile defense and middle east</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Economist 9/1</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (“Romney Could Screw Up US Relations With Russia,” [[http://www.businessinsider.com/mitt-romneys-foreign-policy-chops-come-into-light-2012-9]])</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__In the nuclear weapons__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[…] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: lime;">damage US-Russian relations.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Accidental nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cirincione ‘7</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Joseph Cirincione, Center for American Progress expert in nonproliferation, national security, international security, U.S. military, U.S. foreign policy, July 23rd, 2007, “Nuclear summer,[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2007/07/nuclear_summer.html/print.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Beyond the fact […] negotiated nuclear reductions.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Strategies]]Strategies</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Strategies-Valley]]Valley</span>=== 


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disadvantages-Elections DA]]Elections DA</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Obama wins now – lead in key swing states</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Easley 9/28</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Jonathon, staff writer “Polls: Obama leads in three swing states,” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/polls/259265-polls-obama-leads-in-three-swing-states]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">President </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: lime;">Obama leads</span>__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[…] on Friday morning. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">But the economy’s close</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">WSJ 9/28</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (“Obama, Romney tied on economy in Fox poll,” [[http://blogs.marketwatch.com/election/2012/09/28/obama-romney-tied-on-economy-in-fox-poll/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">If Mitt </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: lime;">Romney</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> needed […] taken Sept. 24 to 26. </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Independents hate all spending and would flip the election </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schoen 2/8</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Douglas E., political strategist, “The forgotten swing voter,”[[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Indeed, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.5pt;">recent polling</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> […]the same gridlock.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Romney kills relations with Russia – missile defense and middle east</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Economist 9/1</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (“Romney Could Screw Up US Relations With Russia,” [[http://www.businessinsider.com/mitt-romneys-foreign-policy-chops-come-into-light-2012-9]])</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__In the nuclear weapons__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[…] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: lime;">damage US-Russian relations.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Accidental nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cirincione ‘7</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Joseph Cirincione, Center for American Progress expert in nonproliferation, national security, international security, U.S. military, U.S. foreign policy, July 23rd, 2007, “Nuclear summer,[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2007/07/nuclear_summer.html/print.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Beyond the fact […] negotiated nuclear reductions.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Strategies]]Strategies</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Strategies-Valley]]Valley</span>=== 

**Round 1 vs. SPC (GS)**
1NC:
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elections (Russia Relations)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kappeler Kritk</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">States CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Framework</span>
Case
2NR:
Framework

**Round 4 vs. Dowling Catholic**
1NC:
T
Capitalism Kritik
States CP
Elections (Russia Relations)
Case
2NR:
Elections
Case

**Round 5 vs. Dowling Catholic (BE)**
1NC:
T "in means throughout"
Elections (Russia)
Fiscal Cliff DA
Alaska CP
Case
2NR:
Elections
Case




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]