[[toc]]
= = 
=Affirmative= 

==1AC Glenbrooks- Port Security== 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Terrorism</span>=== 

**Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAPA 3/7[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAPA urges Congress ... at the federal level.</span>

**Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NPR 3/26 (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)</span>
As Mike Shuster ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> highly enriched uranium.¶</span>

**Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maerli 2k(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer-2K, p. 111-112.)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A striking parallel ...</span> a nuclear explosive.

**New terrorists have the motivation to attack – multiple reasons**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lippman 3 (Matthew, Professor, Department of Criminal Justice, University of Illinois-Chicago, “The New Terrorism and International Law,” TULSA JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE AND INTERNATIONAL LAW v. 10, 2003, p. 302-304)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The contemporary era ... political objectives. n62</span>

**Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 6/26 (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLIONS of cargo ... Congressional Research Service. </span>

**Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvan 12 (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Department of ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> called “dirty bombs.’</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">’¶</span>

**Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ayson 10 (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
A terrorist nuclear ... <span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">of nuclear restraint.</span>

**Studies and historical trends prove that terrorists want to attack ports**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hurst 8 (Cindy, political-military research analyst with the Foreign Military Studies¶ Office and is also a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve, writing for IAGS: Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, non-profit organization in Washington dedicated to research and public debate on issues related to energy security, “The Terrorist Threat to ¶ Liquefied Natural Gas:¶ Fact or Fiction?”, [[http://www.iags.org/hurstlng0208.pdf]], 2/8)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">recent studies</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ...</span> crippling the U.S. economy.

**Bioterrorism is incredibly easy**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allison 9-7 (Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capabilities for producing ... era of megaterror.</span>

**Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GSN 9 (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">¶The inspector general ... Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>

**That causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of all the ... NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

**A port attack shuts down naval power**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Watts 5 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. 1 __Connecting the continental ...__from the experience? </span>

**Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Talor et al. 7 (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. Navy ... overburdened airlift resources. </span>

**Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11 (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In light of global ... </span>at a “tipping point.”

**Specifically deters Iran**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klare 12</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Michael T., Five college professor of Peace and World Security studies, Defense correspondent at //The Nation// magazine, on the Board of Directors of Human Rights Watch, “America’s maritime power”, [[http://mondediplo.com/2012/03/06uspacific]], 3/2/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">According to Obama ...</span> rising powers.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons sparks a massive arms race** </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mitchell 3/2</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (George, retired senator of 15 years, senate majority leader for 6 years, currently serves as co-chair of the Housing Commission at the Bipartisan Policy Center, “Former Sen. Mitchell: Nuclear Iran Would Ignite Worldwide Arms Race”, [[http://americannewsreport.com/former-sen-mitchell-nuclear-iran-would-ignite-worldwide-arms-race-8813376.html]], 3/2/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Few U.S. Senators ... around the world.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That causes global nuclear war and extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Primakov 9</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, 9/08)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Middle East ... </span>such a possibility.

**A port attack destroys marine ecosystems**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chalk 8</span> (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND Research & Development Corporation, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” 2008, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Attacks</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> also </span><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of this sort.</span>

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Craig 3</span> (Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law -- McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem ... </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">us.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is the Economy</span>=== 

**Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy. Their generic defense doesn’t assume total economic collapse, just recession induced dips**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flynn 3 (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[http://www.cfr|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chairperson Collins, ... international trade.</span>

**Attacks don’t need to be successful- perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clark et al. 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Why? Because</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">in ... counter-terrorism plan.</span>

**Collapse spills over globally resulting in worldwide economic gridlock**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schanzer and Eyerman, 2010</span> (David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe, Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf)
Scenario Three: Direct ... <span style="font-size: 11pt;">run out of food.</span>

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bearden, 2k</span> (Director, Association of Distinguished American Scientists, “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve it Quickly”, June 24, [[http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm]])
History bears out ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> many decades.\</span>

**Growth and unemployment at an all time low**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 8/29 (New York Times news service, citing government data, “Economy Still Stuck in Low Gear”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/business/economy/second-quarter-growth-revised-up-to-1-7-percent-rate.html]], 8/29/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Government data released ... at 8.3 percent</span>

**Economic growth is key to prevent conflict**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bernauera 10 (Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, Vally Koubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Previous research ... the existing literature.</span>

**New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palac-McMiken 5(Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">However, counter-terrorism ... purpose of illustration.</span>

**Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4 – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__The loss of investor__ ... **__negative feedback effects__**__.__</span>


**The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fritelli 5 – Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ships are the ... for U.S. importers.</span>

**U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boudreux 6(Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">During the past 30 ... to these foreigners.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port security.**</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is Solvency</span>=== 

**Visualization and imaging technology solves**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PPIC 6 (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As documentation ... then detected.¶ </span>

**New computer and software takes out any solvency deficits**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PPIC 6 (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In-Port Imaging ... and agile retreads.¶ 50¶ </span>

**Despite devastating losses Al Qaeda and terrorist groups continue to expand – this proves their resiliency and means none of your advantage counter-plans solve**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fox News 8/1 (Fox News service, citing the State Department’s Country Report on Terrorism and its top Counterterrorism official Daniel Benjamin, “Al Qaeda gaining 'operational capability' despite core losses, report shows”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/31/al-qaeda-gaining-operational-capability-despite-core-losses-report-shows/]], 8/1/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Western strikes on ... greater violence.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal level coordination key to successful security</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harrald 05</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The threat is ... turf battles.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Solvency can overcome various systems—changes can be made to prevent attacks</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Harrald 05</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By necessity, ...not include terrorists?</span>
==1AC Woodward- Port Security== 
===**Contention 1 is Terrorism**=== 

**Status quo port security is insufficient**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kimery 13</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Anthony L., Homeland Security Today's Online Editor and Online Media Division manager, draws on 30 years of experience and extensive contacts as he investigates and analyzes homeland security, counterterrorism and border security, “DHS IG Finds 22 Ports Not Adequately Screening Cargo Containers For Radiation; Former Port Security Official Provides Insight”, [[http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/the-kimery-report/blog/dhs-ig-finds-22-ports-not-adequately-screening-cargo-containers-for-radiation-former-port-security-official-provides-insight/b7c57fc60ca972b37e87d55c26087c81.html]], 2/13/13)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cargo containers ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as necessary.” </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NPR 3/26</span>(Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)
As Mike Shuster ... <span style="font-size: 12pt;">enriched uranium. </span>

**The black market is still active – despite attempts at cracking down material is being acquired from unknown places**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AP 12/9</span> (Yahoo News, “Georgia details nuke black market investigations”, [[http://news.yahoo.com/georgia-details-nuke-black-market-investigations-153216292.html]], 12/9/12)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">BATUMI, Georgia (AP) — On the gritty side of this casino r... to sell the material.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maerli 2k(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer-2K, p. 111-112.)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A striking parallel ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> nuclear explosive.</span>

**Specifically, the assassination of Bin Laden spurs anger**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LA Times 5/7</span> (Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12)
Reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">— Al Qaeda ...</span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"> were militants.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrorists will attack by the end of this year – it’s the consensus of experts</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allison 12 (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, ...</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;"> end of 2013.”</span>//

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Put away all of your Terrorism defense - The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Bunn</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> (Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April,[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Complacency about ... </span><span style="font-size: 4pt;"> nuclear material informing the police. 19</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 6/26 (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLIONS of cargo ... Research Service. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrorists are focused on nuke in a box- now is key</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvan 12 (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Department ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> “dirty bombs.’</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">’ </span>

**Nuclear terrorism leads to extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ahmed 4 (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1, </span>[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, ME)</span>
A nuclear ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> be losers.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Bioterror is incredibly easy** </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allison 9-7 (Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capabilities for producing ... megaterror.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GSN 9 (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The inspector ... release, Nov. 2)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 2 – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of all the weapons ... IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

**An attack kills the South Korean economy**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allison 12</span> (Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, SOUTH KOREA AND THE NUCLEAR SECURITY SUMMIT keynote address, 3/27/12)
2. Economic Impact: ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> security implications</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">." </span>

**That turns every impact and causes extinction**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green 10** [Peter & Michael Hamel-Green, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, a member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia” Nautilus, Special Report, 10-001: January 5th, 2010, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The consequences of failing to address ... similarly be intercepted.</span>
==== ==== 
**The Korean peninsula is comparatively the most dangerous hot spot in the status quo**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Telegraph 10/2</span> (news service, citing North Korean Deputy Vice Minister Pak Kil-yon addressing the United Nations General Assembly, “North and South Korea 'on the verge of nuclear war'”, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/9580536/North-and-South-Korea-on-the-verge-of-nuclear-war.html]], 10/2/12)
Pak Kil-yon, Pyongyang's ... towards the North.
===Contention 2 is the Economy=== 

**A terrorist attack DESTROYS the global economy and trade**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flynn 6</span> (Stephen, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford, “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards”, 3/9, http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is just a ...</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> global priority. </span>

**Economic crisis causes war–strong statistical support**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal, 10</span>(Jedediah, director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives, pg 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Less intuitive is ... ancillary to those views.</span>

**Econ weak now- double dip on the way**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wayne 3-14 </span>Brent Wayne 3/14/13 (The Guardian Express, “Lack of Consumer Credit Continues to Slow The U.S. Economic Recovery”, http://guardianlv.com/2013/03/jd-lack-of-consumer-credit-continues-to-slow-the-u-s-economic-recovery/)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The worldwide ... is a real possibility</span>.

**New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palac-McMiken 5(Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">However, counter-terrorism ... purpose of illustration.</span>

**Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4 – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__The loss of investor__ ... **__negative feedback effects__**__.__</span>

**The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fritelli 5 – Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ships are the ... for U.S. importers.</span>

**U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boudreux 6(Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">During the past 30 ... to these foreigners.</span>

**Organized crime smuggling through ports is increasing in the status quo**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SLD 12</span> (Second Line of Defense focuses on analysis regarding the creation and sustainment of military and security capability. “THE GROWING THREAT OF ORGANIZED CRIME TO PORT SECURITY” 6-28-12. http://www.sldinfo.com/the-growing-threat-of-organized-crime-to-port-security/)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Organized ... products</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Port vulnerabilities make shipping containers a key source of income for organized crime in the status quo**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global Security 11</span> (“Port Security Systems.” 7-13-11. http://www.globalsecurity.org/security/systems/ports.htm)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Organized crime ...that is stolen.</span>
==== ==== 
**Russian criminal organizations are inter-woven into the organized crime of the United States**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haas 6</span> (Yahoo News, Citing: J.O Fickenauer Director of the National Center of Justice, “Russian Organized Crime in America”, [[http://voices.yahoo.com/russian-organized-crime-america-100851.html]], 10/28/6)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Perhaps if Russia had ..., well-trained in "business", has greater ambitions.</span>
==== ==== 
**That causes Russian instability, nuclear launch and the sale of nuclear weapons**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ciluffo 97</span> (CSIS Watch, Number 188, October 10, 1997, [[http://www.csis.org/html/7wtch188.html|www.csis.org/html/7wtch188.html]])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"If the forces ...</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> an all-time </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">high</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">"</span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port security.**</span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Contention 3 is Solvency**</span>=== 

**MMPDS technology solves**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sloane 10/11</span>(Dr. Stanton D. Sloane, bachelor’s degree in Professional Studies from Barry University, a master’s degree in Human Resources Management from Pepperdine University, and a Doctor of Management degree from the Weatherhead Business School at Case Western Reserve University, President and Chief Executive Officer of Decision Sciences, Earlier, he was President of Lockheed Martin’s Management/Data Systems, “Cargo Security International: Dr. Stanton D. Sloane of Decision Sciences looks at how passive detection systems can play their part in protecting the global supply chain”, [[http://www.decisionsciencescorp.com/cargo-security-international-dr-stanton-d-sloane-of-decision-sciences-looks-at-how-passive-detection-systems-can-play-their-part-in-protecting-the-global-supply-chain/]], 10/11/12)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In our global </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Governor of Pennsylvania.</span>

**Despite devastating losses Al Qaeda and terrorist groups continue to expand – this proves their resiliency and means none of your advantage counter-plans solve**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fox News 8/1 (Fox News service, citing the State Department’s Country Report on Terrorism and its top Counterterrorism official Daniel Benjamin, “Al Qaeda gaining 'operational capability' despite core losses, report shows”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/31/al-qaeda-gaining-operational-capability-despite-core-losses-report-shows/]], 8/1/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Western strikes on ... greater violence.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">TBill thumps your spending links</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Laing 2/8</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;"> (Keith Laing is a national political journalist who works for //The Hill --// covers transportation policy in Congress and manages the paper’s Transportation Report blog." Shuster schedules hearing on 'federal role' in transportation spending" February 8, 2013. </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/infrastructure/281961-rep-shuster-schedules-hearing-on-federal-role-in-americas-infrastructure-</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress approved ...</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> not improve it.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal level coordination key to successful security</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harrald 05</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The threat is ... turf battles.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increasing port security will comparatively reduce the risk of a successful terrorist attack</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">John </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Medalia 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] ) RF</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">What Priority ... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">targets. </span>

**T bill spending will come in increments over time and it’s happening now – that triggers the link**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economist 7-12</span>**[[http://www.economist.com/node/21558309|__http://www.economist.com/node/21558309__]]
EXACTLY 56 ... the next five years.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Squo cargo operations aren’t sophisticated enough to solve</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frantz 7/15 (Douglas, Washington Post National Security Editor and Deputy Staff Director and Chief Investigator for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, “Port Security: U.S. Fails to meet Deadline for Scanning of Cargo Containers”, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The administration’s ... from Japan.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Solvency can overcome various systems—changes can be made to prevent attacks</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Harrald 05</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By necessity, ...not include terrorists?</span>

=__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Negative</span>__= 
=Questions/Concerns= 
Affirmative: jammcl1@nths219.org

Negative: kanganador@gmail.com
[[toc]]