[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
Neg V Pace KS (Space Elevator)

**Strat**
**Consult Nato (2NR)**
**Cap K**
**Politics (Cybersecurity)**
**Case**

=Round 2= 

===<span class="s1">**Contention 1 is Strikes**</span>=== 

**Israel strike on Iran is inevitable now –**

**A. Panetta and senior defense officials agree—Israel striking Iran extremely probable now, holding their own resources for attack and lack of US resolve**
<span class="s2">**Ignatius 2/2/12**; </span>(David Ignatius, The Washington Post, writing from Brussels at the time when Panetta was in Belgium for a NATO meeting; “Is Israel preparing to attack Iran?”; [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/is-israel-preparing-to-attack-iran/2012/02/02/gIQANjfTkQ_print|http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/is-israel-preparing-to-attack-iran/2012/02/02/gIQANjfTkQ_print.html]]; JN)

Defense Secretary Leon <span class="s3">Panetta</span> … spring — and the unintended consequences.

**B. “Window” of effective strike rapidly closing**
<span class="s2">**The Economist 2/11/12**; </span>(“Closer to take-off”; [[http://www.economist.com/node/21547297?fsrc=scn/tw/te/ar/closertotakeoff]]; JN)

IS IT all part of a … Oman and Socotra in Yemen.

**And, Israel’s April strike fails to stop proliferation and only risks triggering our impacts, 4 reasons**
**A. Spread out nuclear cites**
**B. Hardened reactors**
**C. Program goes underground**
**D. Increases risks of retaliation**
<span class="s2">**The Economist 2/25/12**;</span> (The Economist editors, printed; “Bombing Iran: Nobody should welcome the prospect of a nuclear-armed Iran. But bombing the place is not the answer”; [[http://www.economist.com/node/21548233]]; JN)

<span class="s4">FOR years Iran has practised … </span><span class="s1">might become stronger than ever.</span>

**We’ll isolate a few scenarios:**

**First is great power escalation.**

**An Israeli pre-emptive strike draws the United States – close assets and political pressure**
<span class="s2">**AP 2/25/12**; </span>(“Israeli attack on Iran could pull US into new war”; published on FoxNews; [[http://www.foxnews.com/world/2012/02/25/israeli-attack-on-iran-could-pull-us-into-new-war/#ixzz1novsaXFF|http://www.foxnews.com/world/2012/02/25/israeli-attack-on-iran-could-pull-us-into-new-war/#ixzz1novsaXFF]]; JN)

<span class="s4"> WASHINGTON – </span><span class="s1">**An Israeli pre-…** and its remaining nuclear facilities.</span>

**It also draws in Russia and China will – they’ll defend Iran EVEN IF it means starting WWIII and extinction**
<span class="s2">**Hinazille 2/15/12**; </span>(hinazille post on Hub Forums, citing Major General Zhang Zhaozhong AND Russian Ambassador to the UN Vitaly Churkin; “Iran, Russia & China vs. the US, UK & Israel | Will The US & Israel go to War with Iran? Is it Justified in Any Way?”; [[http://hinazille.hubp|http://hinazille.hubpages.com/hub/Will-the-US-go-to-war-with-Iran]]; JN)

<span class="s1">Russia & China Support Iran & Will … </span><span class="s4">or Africa, Australia or Europe. </span>

**Second is the Strait of Hormuz.**

**Military action against Iran causes them to close the Strait of Hormuz, draws US in**
<span class="s2">**Bryanski 12**; </span>(Gleb Bryanski, Reuters; “Putin ally fears Israel is pushing U.S. toward Iran war”; 1/12/12; [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/01/12/us-russia-usa-security-idUSTRE80B0Q42012011|http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/01/12/us-russia-usa-security-idUSTRE80B0Q420120112]]; JN)

<span class="s4"> (Reuters) - </span><span class="s1">Russia fears Israel … the Arabian Sea this week. </span>

**Iranian closure of the Strait of Hormuz causes a U.S. first strike, miscalculation, and ripple effects tanking the global economy**
<span class="s2">**KRAUSS 12**; </span>(CLIFFORD KRAUSS, NYT analyst; “Oil Price Would Skyrocket if Iran Closed the Strait of Hormuz”; 1/4/12; [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/05/business/oil-price-would-skyrocket-if-iran-closed-the-stra|http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/05/business/oil-price-would-skyrocket-if-iran-closed-the-strait.html?smid=tw-nytimes&seid=auto]]; JN)

<span class="s4"> HOUSTON — </span><span class="s1">If Iran were … **in this kind of situation**</span><span class="s4">.” </span>

**Nuclear war**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld, 2008**
[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, [["http:|http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]

<span class="s1">Then there are</span><span class="s4"> the dolorous </span><span class="s1">… internal travails with external adventures</span><span class="s5">.</span>

===<span class="s1">**Contention 2 is Relations**</span>=== 

**Iran has been a unique area of cooperation, but disputes now will collapse the overall alliance**
<span class="s2">**Heller 2/23/12**; </span>(Jeffrey Heller and Matt Spetalnick; “Possible Iran attack tests Israel-U.S. relations as elections approach: Analysis”; [[http://news.nationalpost.com/2012/02/23/possible-ira|http://news.nationalpost.com/2012/02/23/possible-iran-attack-tests-relations-between-israel-u-s-as-elections-approach-analysis/]]; JN)

JERUSALEM/WASHINGTON — Ever since … risk? Can you assume that?”

**Arrow-3 is the CENTERPIECE of relations, successful, but requires more funding for development**
<span class="s2">**UPI 12,** 1/31/2012 </span>(United Press International (UPI) has been a leading provider of critical information to media outlets, businesses, governments and researchers worldwide. UPI is a global operation with offices in Beirut, Hong Kong, London, Santiago, Seoul and Tokyo. Our headquarters is located in downtown Washington, DC, surrounded by major international policy-making governmental and non-governmental organizations; “Israel seeks to fill its quivers of arrows”; [[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2012/01/31/Israels-seeks-to-fill-its-quiver-of-Arrows/UPI-38201328040438/]]; JN)

<span class="s1">Israel has test-fired its … </span><span class="s4">hand from Syria as well. </span>

**The alliance is CRITICAL to information gathering and technical experience—solves cyberthreats**
<span class="s2">**OREN 11**; </span>(MICHAEL OREN, American-born Israeli historian and author and the Israeli ambassador to the United States.[1] He has written books, articles, and essays on Middle Eastern history, and is the author of the best-selling Power, Faith, and Fantasy: America in the Middle East: 1776 to the Present and Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East, which won the Los Angeles Times History Book of the Year Award. He was a Distinguished Fellow at the Shalem Center in Jerusalem and a contributing editor to The New Republic and the Shalem Center's quarterly journal, Azure; “The Ultimate Ally”; June 2011; [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/04/25/the_ultimate_ally?page=0,0]]; JN)

According to Maj. Gen. … largest cause of American casualties.

**Great power escalation**
**Fritz, 2009**
[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, [["|http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]]]

<span class="s4">This paper will analyse the … </span><span class="s1">command and control centres directly.</span>

===<span class="s1">**Contention 3 is Inherency**</span>=== 

**Status quo guarantees Israel cannot finance**
<span class="s2">**Dagoni 2/22/12**; </span>(Ran Dagoni, Israel Globes political correspondent, writing in Washington; “Mixed messages threaten Israel's missile defense programs”; [[http://www.globes.co.il/serveen/globes/docview.asp?did=1000727079]]; JN)

<span class="s4"> Defense News reports, "</span><span class="s1">For … not be in Israel's interest</span><span class="s4">. </span>

**The system WORKS, but needs more funding and development**
<span class="s2">**UPI 12**; </span>(United Press International (UPI) has been a leading provider of critical information to media outlets, businesses, governments and researchers worldwide. UPI is a global operation with offices in Beirut, Hong Kong, London, Santiago, Seoul and Tokyo. Headquarters is located in downtown Washington, DC, surrounded by major international policy-making governmental and non-governmental organizations; “Israels seeks to fill its quiver of Arrows”; January 31st, 2012; [[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2012/01/31/Israels-seeks-to-fill-its-quiver-of-Arrows/UPI-38201328040438/#ixzz1niej6PQE|http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2012/01/31/Israels-seeks-to-fill-its-quiver-of-Arrows/UPI-38201328040438/#ixzz1niej6PQE]]; JN)

TEL AVIV, Israel, Jan. 31 (UPI) -- <span class="s3">… </span>and Palestinian militants in Gaza.

===<span class="s1">**Contention 4 is Solvency**</span>=== 

**An Israeli attack on Iran is IMMINENT and it will FAIL. Iran will strike out against the US, unleash terrorist attacks on Israel, and close the Strait of Hormuz. The Arrow-3 system is the ONLY WAY to delay Israeli action**
<span class="s2">**Goure 2/10/12**; </span>(Vice President with the Lexington Institute, member of the 2001 Department of Defense Transition Team. Dr. Goure spent two years in the U.S. Government as the director of the Office of Strategic Competitiveness in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. He also served as a senior analyst on national security and defense issues with the Center for Naval Analyses, Science Applications International Corporation, SRS Technologies, R&D Associates and System Planning Corporation. Prior to joining the Lexington Institute, Dr. Goure was the Deputy Director, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies [more quals: [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/main.asp?page=1244]]]; “Even A Failed Israeli Strike On Iran May Be Better Than None At All”; 2/10/12; [[http://www.lex|http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/even-a-failed-israeli-strike-on-iran-may-be-better-than-none-at-all?a=1&c=1171]]; JN)

<span class="s3">All the auguries are pointing … </span>capability in place before striking.

**The Arrow-3 is the next step in space development and defense**
<span class="s2">**ESHEL 2/16/12**; </span>(NOAM ESHEL, Defense Update; “Facing a Growing Missile Threat, Israel revamps Air defense Command”; [[http://defense-update.com/2012|http://defense-update.com/20120216_facing-a-growing-missile-threat-israel-revamps-air-defense-command.html]]; JN)

<span class="s3">The **next step** in its … </span>for export of Arrow systems.

**Arrow-3 is key to Israeli deterrence of the Iranian nuclear threat and more effective than previous systems**
<span class="s2">**UPI 2/6/12**; </span>(United Press International (UPI) has been a leading provider of critical information to media outlets, businesses, governments and researchers worldwide. UPI is a global operation with offices in Beirut, Hong Kong, London, Santiago, Seoul and Tokyo. Our headquarters is located in downtown Washington, DC, surrounded by major international policy-making governmental and non-governmental organizations; “IAI and Boeing drive to active Arrow-3”; [[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2012/02/06/IAI-and-Boeing-drive-to-active-Arrow-3/UPI-95681328555290/]]; JN)

TEL AVIV, Israel, Feb. 6 (UPI) -- <span class="s3">… </span>much immune to conventional airstrikes.
**Full tests coming later this year**
<span class="s2">**DONALD 2/15/12**; </span>(DAVID DONALD, AIN News; “Boeing extends Arrow cooperation with IAI”; http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/singapore-air-show/2012-02-15/boeing-extends-arrow-cooperation-iai; JN)

<span class="s1">Late last month Israel Aerospace … **planned for later this year.**</span>

**David’s Sling triggers any links**
<span class="s2">**Eshel 2/9/12**; </span>(David Eshel, writing for Aviation Week; “Israel Readies Test Of Integrated Air Defense”; [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=defe|http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/dti/2012/02/01/DT_02_01_2012_p21-416788.xml&headline=Israel%20Readies%20Test%20Of%20Integrated%20Air%20Defense]]; JN)

<span class="s3"> Another important change will … </span>missile, recently introduced by Syria.

**Thus the plan:**
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of the Arrow-3 beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**

=Round 3= 

==Asteroids 1AC== 

===**Contention 1 is Inherency**=== 


**Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered**
**NRC 2010** (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842__)__
__Ground-based telescopes have difficulty … as possible__, especially imminent impactors.

**Despite these failures feasible solutions exist—this outweighs all other impacts POLYCAPITALIST 10-28-2010** (I am an independent investor with private sector experience in investment banking, strategy consulting and venture capital. I have worked with both multinationals and startups, and I have served on the board of directors of both publicly traded and private companies. My academic training consists of graduate/postgraduate studies in accounting, finance and economic history. “Cheap Insurance Against the Ultimate Black Swan,” http://seekingalpha.com/instablog/489997-the-polycapitalist/105674-cheap-insurance-against-the-ultimate-black-swan__)__
__I thought it could be a … **perhaps all life on earth**.__

**Asteroid deflection attempts are inevitable but they will fail without early warning**
**NRC 2010** (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)
In contrast to other known … __a damaging impact event as feasible__.

===**Contention 2 is Asteroid Collision**=== 


**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**
<span class="s1">**VERSCHUUR 1996**</span> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)
<span class="s2">In the past few years, … </span><span class="s3">that will determine our fate</span><span class="s4">.</span>

**The impact is extinction**
<span class="s1">**McGUIRE 2002**</span> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)
The Tunguska events pale into … comet heading in our direction.

**The impact is extinction—outweighs nuclear war**
<span class="s1">**Brownfield 4**, </span>Gaishiled Project, 2004 (Roger, Gaishiled Project, “A Million Miles a Day”, Presentation at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth From Asteroids, 2-26, http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable= Paper&g ID=17092)

Once upon a time there was a … expectation... and its attendant fear.

<span class="s3">**Our evidence is comparative—war, environmental destruction, terrorism, and economic collapse are all dwarfed by an asteroid impact**</span>
<span class="s5">**STEEL 2002** </span><span class="s3">- Joule Physics Laboratory, University of Salford (October 24, Duncan, “ Neo Impact Hazard: the Cancer Metaphor ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, </span><span class="s2">[[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]]</span><span class="s3"> pg. 93)</span>
<span class="s3">The Cancer Metaphor: Why facing … </span><span class="s5">halting a hurricane in its path.</span>

**Only asteroid strikes cause environmental crises**
<span class="s1">**CHAPMAN 04** </span>(Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)
<span class="s6">I have argued [59] that </span><span class="s3">impacts … traces in the fossil record.</span>

**The scarcity of life in the universe proves both the probability and impact of our advantage**
<span class="s1">**KAZAN 2011**</span> (Casey, Owner of Galaxy … Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.

**Even if the timeframe is long it’s irrelevant—we should evaluate impacts in a frame of millennia**
<span class="s1">**VERSCHUUR 1996**</span> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)
There is an even more … question is worth thinking about.

**Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is**
<span class="s1">**POSNER 2004** </span>(Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)
<span class="s3">Even if our insouciant reaction … </span><span class="s2">otherwise to reduce the risk.</span>

**Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end**
<span class="s1">**BARBEE 2009**</span> (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]])//DT
<span class="s3">It is generally accepted that … process for defense against NEOs</span><span class="s7">.</span>

**Extinction risks outweigh everything else regardless of probability**
<span class="s1">**MATHENY 2007**</span> (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)
<span class="s3">Even if extinction events are … humanity and those that threaten 100%.</span>


===**Contention 3 is Accidental War**=== 

**Small NEO strikes are inevitable now**
**Binzel**, planetary sciences prof, **11** (Richard, Professor of Planetary Sciences – MIT, “Richard Binzel on Near-Earth Asteroids”, Space Daily, 7-1, http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Richard_Binzel_on_near_Earth_asteroids_999.html)

<span class="s1">Actually, </span><span class="s2">asteroids of this size … caught in their search pattern.</span>

**Space-based detection is key to prevent nuclear war from small asteroid strikes**
<span class="s3">**DAVID 2002**</span> (Leonard, Senior Space Writer, Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?” June 6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)
Military strategists and space scientists … detect small asteroids, he said

**That would kill billions**
<span class="s3">**FORROW ET AL 1998** </span>(Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)
A missile launch activated by … direct and indirect <span class="s4">casualties worldwide.</span>4

**Small asteroid strike alone would kill millions**
<span class="s4">**Worden 2002** </span><span class="s2">- United States Space Command, Peterson Air Force Base (October 24, S.P., “ Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (Neo) Threat. ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, </span><span class="s5">[[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]]</span><span class="s2"> pg. 101 )</span>
<span class="s2">Most people know of the … </span><span class="s4">**the orbits of just a few**</span><span class="s6">**.**</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">__**Plan**__</span>

**Plan: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should substantially increase its efforts to survey and deflect Near Earth Objects.**


===**Contention 4 is Solvency**=== 


**The plan makes effective mitigation possible against all NEOs**
**NRC 2010** (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)
__Combined ground- and space-based … smaller than 140 meters in diameter.__


**NASA can deflect now, but further development solves demonstration**
**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)
__To prepare an adequate response … orbital fine-tuning is required__.


**The plan spills over to improve all other NEO missions**
**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)
__NASA’s NEO research is a “three-… science community and the public.__

**Nasa is key:**
**A. access to observatories**
**FORTUNO 2007** (“H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609__)__
__(1) Arecibo Observatory is the … **posed by near-Earth objects****.**__

**B. NASA’s** **in charge—efforts may include other branches of government**
**Hsu 2010** (October 22, Jeremy, “ White House adviser voices asteroid worries ” [["|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/]])

__National emergency plans for natural … **about any threatening space objects.**__

**Advance warning is key to prevent nuclear deflection—it also prevents extremism and panic**
**BRANDENBURG 2011** (John E. Brandenburg is a plasma physicist at Orbital Technologies in Madison Wisconsin, working on space plasma technologies and space propulsion, “Preparing for a Future Asteroid Crisis,” Astronomical Review, May 16, http://astroreview.com/issue/2011/article/preparing-for-a-future-asteroid-crisis)
__The detection of a large asteroid … **foresee and prepare for one**__**.**

===**Contention 5 is No Impact**=== 

**Intentional war won’t occur and small conflicts won’t escalate**
<span class="s1">**MANDELBAUM 1999** </span>(Michael, Professor of American Foreign Policy, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: is Major War Obsolete?” Transcript of debate with John Mearsheimer, CFR,
Feb 25, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)
My argument says, tacitly, that … <span class="s2">against an attack on a king</span>.”

**No econ impacts—rivalries precipitate peace**
<span class="s1">**Bennett and Nordstrom 2000**– department of political science at Penn State</span>

(D Scott and Timothy, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest, WEA)
Conflict settlement is also a distinct … <span class="s2">economically with the U</span>nited <span class="s2">S</span>tates.

**Empirical falsification in science is the only way to obtain objective knowledge and it’s key to policy-making**
<span class="s1">**Fischer, 98**</span> – Professor of Political Science at Rutgers University (Frank, “BEYOND EMPIRICISM: POLICY INQUIRY IN POSTPOSITIVIST PERSPECTIVE”, Published in Policy Studies Journal, Vol. 26. No.1 (Spring, 1998): 129-146)
- The ONLY objective approach to knowledge accumulation is to engage in empirical falsification through the scientific method and historical decision-making.

Neopositivism (or logical empiricism) has … reaffirm and more intensively apply.

**Even if nuclear war does escalate, it won’t cause extinction.**
<span class="s1">**Martin, 1982** </span>(Brian, Professor of Social Sciences in the School of Social Sciences, Media and Communication at the University of Wollongong, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300 [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])

To summarise the above points<span class="s2">, a … </span>nuclear extinction are quite sincere.[15]

**Irreversibility of war makes it unlikely to occur**
**Fettweis 2006 –** National Security Decision Making Department (Christopher J. US Naval War College International Studies Review 8, 677–697 4.
However, one need not be … <span class="s4">believe that it could not</span><span class="s5">**.**</span>

<span class="s3">**Empathy and evolution have decreased violence and the incentive for war**</span>
<span class="s3">**Pinker 2009** – Ph.D. Harvard college professor of psychology (Stephen, April 1st, “Why is there peace?” http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/why_is_there_peace/)</span>
<span class="s3">Expanding the circle Why has … </span><span class="s2">“there but for fortune go I</span><span class="s3">.”</span>

<span class="s3">**Nuclear winter theory assumes almost every city in the world is hit with fifteen warheads**</span>
**Ball 2006** (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, [[http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf]])

<span class="s3">In the early 1980s, various … about 50 percent of the time’.6</span>

=Round 4= 

**Biopower Kritik**
**Epistemology F/W**
**Ozone DA (2NR)**
**Jackson Vanik PTX**
**T-Beyond**
**Clean Fuels CP (2NR)**
**Case**

=Round 5= 

**Same aff as round 2.**

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]