[[toc]]
=Information= 
Cites: email chelseathorpe97@gmail.com or rohanrao1@gmail.com 
=Affirmative= 
===1AC Plan=== 
**The United States federal government should make available long-term contract loan guarantees for commercial equipage of Next Generation Air Transportation System technology.**

===1AC Economic Growth Advantage=== 
==== ==== 
__Fi____rst__, government stimulus is __key to economic growth__—there will be __no recovery__ without increased spending.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stone 12</span> — Chad Stone, Chief Economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Yale University, 2012 (“Misguided Deficit and Inflation Fears Impede Economic Recovery,” //Economic Intelligence//—a //U.S. News & World Report// blog, July 12th, Available Online at http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/economic-intelligence/2012/07/12/misguided-deficit-and-inflation-fears-impede-economic-recovery, Accessed 07-20-2012)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Last week's disappointing jobs report</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … my is stronger.</span>

__Second__, __infrastructure stimulus__ is key to economic growth—__job creation__, __multiplier effect__, __long-term productivity__, and it __pays for itself__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">New America Foundation 10</span> — New America Foundation—“a nonprofit, nonpartisan public policy institute that invests in new thinkers and new ideas to address the next generation of challenges facing the United States,” 2010 (“The Case for an Infrastructure-Led Jobs and Growth Strategy,” February 23rd, Available Online at http://www.newamerica.net/publications/policy/the_case_for_an_infrastructure_led_jobs_and_growth_strategy, Accessed 06-09-2012)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the Senate takes …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> higher tax revenues</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

__Third__, investment in NextGen effectively __stimulates the economy__—the plan powers __short-term job creation__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Coalition 12</span> (Aeronautical Repair Station Association, Aerospace Industries Association, Air Carrier Association of America, Air Transport Association, Aircraft Owners & Pilots Association, American Society of Travel Agents, Cargo Airline Association, General Aviation Manufacturers Association, Helicopter Association International, Interactive Travel Services Association, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, National Air Carrier Association, National Air Transportation Association, National Association of Manufacturers, National Business Aviation Association, Inc., National Business Travel Association, Regional Airline Association, U.S. Travel Association, “Coalition Letter to House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Leadership On Creating Job Growth Through NextGen,” November 23, [[http://www.airlines.org/Pages/Coalition-Letter-to-House-Transportation-and-Infrastructure-Committee-Leadership-On-Creating-Job-Growth-Through-NextGen.aspx]])

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Accelerated NextGen funding will … </span>//efficiencies and economic growth//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

__Independently__, civil aviation will __stall over the long-term__ without NextGen—the plan is __crucial__ to sustain economic growth.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blakey 11</span> (Marion C., President and CEO – Aerospace Industries Association, “The Future of NextGen”, Congress Blog – The Hill, 2-15, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/144119-the-future-of-nextgen)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The House and Senate have … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> leader in civil aviation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

__And__, aviation is __crucial__ to the __long-term growth__ of the economy—__NextGen solves__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AIA 11</span> (Aerospace Industries Association, “Civil Aviation – Second to None”, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/ip_civil_2011.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ISSUE: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. civil aviation … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and RE&D accounts</span>

The impact is __large__: economic growth is crucial to address __all global challenges__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silk 93</span> — Leonard Silk, Distinguished Professor of Economics at Pace University, Senior Research Fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and former Economics Columnist with the //New York Times//, 1993 (“Dangers of Slow Growth,” //Foreign Affairs//, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like the Great … </span>//economies and societies//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

__Finally__, economic decline __increases the risk of war__—//__strong statistical support__//.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">periods …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ancillary to those views.</span>

===1AC Aerospace Competitiveness Advantage=== 

__First__, failure to upgrade our Air Traffic Control system is putting the U.S. aerospace industry __at risk__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blakey 11</span> (Marion, president and CEO of the Aerospace Industries Association, "US Tech Lead in Jeopardy”, Aviation Weekly, EBSCO)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But with budget worries …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>//drive innovation and growth//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>

__Second__, NextGen equipage is vital to __sustain American aerospace competiveness__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NEXA 11</span> (NEXA Advisors — a consulting company, “NextGen Equipage Fund: Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues,” [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]])
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Improved air transportation …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, OEM and component alike.</span>

__Third__, U.S. aerospace competitiveness is __the backbone__ of American military power.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Aerospace Commission 2</span> — Commissioners of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry, a commission created by Congress and President Bush to study the future of the U.S. aerospace industry, 2002 (“Vision: Anyone, Anything, Anywhere, Anytime,” //Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry//, November, Available Online at [[http://trade.gov/static/aero_rpt_aero_commission.pdf]], Accessed 08-09-2012, p. 1-2)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As America prepares to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Wright brothers’ historic achievement in aviation, our Commission was struck with how the U.S. aerospace industry has shaped the 20th century not only for America but also for the world. Indeed, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. leadership has … international peace and security</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

__And__, strong U.S. military power is __crucial to international stability__—it allows the U.S. to __shape the political and economic order__ to __ensure peace__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nye 10</span> — Joseph S. Nye, Jr., University Distinguished Service Professor and Former Dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Chair of the National Intelligence Council, and Deputy Under Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard University, 2010 (“Is Military Power Becoming Obsolete?,” //Project Syndicate//, January 11th, Available Online at http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/nye78/English, Accessed 02-18-2011)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will military power become …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of power in world politics</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

__Finally__, the loss of American military power will __increase the risk of global conflict__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Felzenberg and Gray 11</span> — Alvin S. Felzenberg, Professorial Lecturer at The Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, Presidential Historian and Adjunct Faculty Member at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, former Fellow at the Institute of Politics at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, served as Principal Spokesman for the 9/11 Commission, holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Princeton University, and Alexander B. Gray, Student at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and the War Studies Department of King’s College, London, 2011 (“The New Isolationism,” //National Review//, January 3rd, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/256150, Accessed 01-03-2011)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A world in which …, at sea, and in the air</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===1AC Solvency=== 
__First__, airlines won’t equip NextGen technology because of __lack of cash__ and __confidence__—the NextGen fund created by the plan is needed to __overcome these barriers__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hinton 11</span> (Christopher, Reporter – MarketWatch, “Airlines Uneasy Over Costly Bid to Replace Radar”, MarketWatch, 5-19, http://www.marketwatch.com/Story/story/print?guid=D235C056-7D9A-11E0-915A-00212804637C)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Help was supposed to … by 2013, the FAA says.</span>

__Second__, successful NextGen roll-out depends on __commercial equipage upgrades__—the plan is __the best way__ to successfully fund needed investments.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dyment 11</span> (Michael J., General Partner – NextGen Equipage Fund, “Transitioning to Satellite-Based Air Traffic Control”, Geospatial Today, 9-15, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US airline position on NextGen</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Airline scepticism of the FAA's …. NextGen system</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

__Finally__, federal loan guarantees __jump-start airline equipage__—government investment is key.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Halsey 11</span> (Ashley, Reporter – Washington Post, “Antidote To Air Gridlock May Not Get Off Ground”, Washington Post, 7-4, http://o.seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/boeingaerospace/2015510103_airtraffic05.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Case for investing</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Making the business …virtually everyone supports</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
=Johns Creek JM- AFF- Milton= 
==Plan== 
The United States federal government should make available long-term contract loan guarantees for commercial equipage of Next Generation Air Transportation System technology.


==1AC Economic Growth== 


We improve the economy.
2nd internal link: jobs.
NextGen generates recovery through jobs and business efficiency
Calio 11 <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, "Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future," http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future)</span>
With broad consensus in the business community and organized labor that Congress should work with
AND
successfully and support the U.S. in our national ambition to win

<span style="display: block; text-align: right;">
</span>
3rd internal link: The Aviation Industry
NextGen ends airport congestion – boosting America~’s economy
Schank 6/23
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">~~[Joshua L. Schank, President and CEO Eno Center for Transportation, 6/23/12, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement~~]</span>
We often think of airports as local economic generators, and they are that,
AND
interest at play here and the federal government needs to be more involved.
Independently<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, civil aviation will </span>stall over the long-term<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> without NextGen—the plan is </span>crucial<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> to sustain economic growth. </span>
**Blakey 11** (Marion C., President and CEO – Aerospace Industries Association, "The Future of NextGen", Congress Blog – The Hill, 2-15, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/144119-the-future-of-nextgen)
The House and Senate have each declared passage of a new FAA Authorization bill a
AND
give FAA the tools to keep our nation the leader in civil aviation.

The U.S. aviation industry is key to the economy
Trupo 6/21
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mary Trupo, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;"> International Trade Administration~’s Director of the Office of Public Affairs, International Trade Administration, "Aerospace Industry is Critical Contributor to U.S. Economy According to Obama Trade Official at Paris Air Show," 6/21/12.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">PARIS – Francisco Sánchez, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, addressed national and international groups at the 2011 Paris Air Show to reinforce the President~’s National Export Initiative (NEI) and support the U.S. aerospace industry.</span>
"The U.S. aerospace industry is a strategic contributor to the economy
AND
S. exporters of aerospace products are small and medium-sized firms.

Economic growth solves war—strengthens institutions and solves escalation
Strauss-Kahn <span style="font-size: 10pt;">200</span>9 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Dominique, Former Professor of Economics at the Paris Institute for Political Studies, Managing Director, International Monetary Fund, "Economic Stability, Economic Cooperation, and Peace—The Role of the IMF",</span> http://www.imf.org/external/np/speeches/2009/092309.htm<span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
Ultimately, peace and prosperity feed on each other, reinforce each other. I
AND
50 percent chance of returning to violence, partly because of weakened institutions.

Finally, economic decline increases the risk of war—strong statistical support.
**Royal 10** — <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 ("Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises," </span>Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span>periods of economic decline<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> may </span>increase the likelihood of external conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. </span>
First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson~’s
AND
the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown.
Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland~’s (1996, 2000) theory of
AND
on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Moreover, </span>the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (Blomberg %26 Hess, 2002. p. 89) </span>
Economic decline has<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>been linked with an increase in<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the likelihood of </span>terrorism<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Blomberg, Hess, %26 Weerapana, 2004), </span>which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. "Diversionary theory
AND
popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas </span>political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span>
This<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> observation </span>is not contradictory to<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> other </span>perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the likelihood of external </span>conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. ~~[end page 214~~] </span>Those studies<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and </span>do not specifically consider<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the occurrence of and conditions created by </span>economic crises<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>


==1AC-Warming== 

First, global warming is real and caused by human activity—reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transportation sector is necessary to prevent long-term climate damage.
**Chapman 7** — <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lee Chapman, Senior Lecturer in the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences at the University of Birmingham (UK), holds a Ph.D. from the University of Birmingham, 2007 ("Transport and climate change: a review," </span>Journal of Transport Geography<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Volume 15, Issue 5, September, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ScienceDirect, p. 354-357)</span>
Over the last century, the planet has metaphorically contracted as transport has developed to
AND
emissions and discusses ways in which society can adapt to reduce the impacts.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1.1. Climate change</span>
Natural forces ensure that the Earth has experienced a changing climate since the beginning of
AND
page 354~~] a balance ultimately achieved by changes to the global climate.
Radiative forcing, the change in the balance between incoming solar radiation and outgoing infrared
AND
undetected and will ensure that global warming will continue for decades after stabilisation.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1.2. The role of transport</span>
Oil is the dominant fuel source for transportation (Fig. 1a) with road
AND
as 5% per annum for the next decade (Somerville, 2003).
All transport sectors are experiencing expansion (Tables 1 and 2) and unfortunately there
AND
emissions and discusses ways in which society can adapt to reduce the impacts.


The Plan solves - prevents at least 4.8 million tons of CO2 emissions every year.
TIACA 10 **(The International Air Cargo Association, non-profit trade association for the air cargo industry, It is a worldwide organization that serves a membership which includes all major segments of the air cargo and logistics industry, "The multiple benefits of modernization", 2010,http://www.tiaca.org/images/tiaca/PDF/IndustryAffairs/Air%20Traffic%20Management%20-%20Pages%20from%20Industry%20Affairs%20Positions-10.pdf, //CJD)**

Current air traffic management systems are based on procedures that were developed in the 1950s
AND
their approach to ATM systems be global in nature and reflect harmonized standards.


====Third, airline emissions are comparatively the largest contributor to climate change

Hodgkinson 7<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (David Hodgkinson et al, June 2007, Associate Professor in the Law School at UWA; Special Counsel with Clayton Utz, a national Australian law firm; and a principal of The Hodgkinson Group, a consulting firm with advisors located around the world. David is the co-author of the book Global Climate Change: Australian Law and Policy (2008) and the general editor of Australian Climate Change Law and Policy (2009). As executive director of EcoCarbon, a non-profit organisation, he manages an industry partnership which is building capacity in mechanisms designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. He also leads an international project team working on a draft convention for persons displaced by climate change, </span>"<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">STRATEGIES FOR AIRLINES ON AIRCRAFT EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE CHANGE: SUSTAINABLE, LONG - TERM SOLUTIONS</span>"<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">,</span> [[<span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://www.hodgkinsongroup.com/documents/Hodgkinson_airline_emissions.bak.pdf</span>-http://www.hodgkinsongroup.com/documents/Hodgkinson_airline_emissions.bak.pdf]]<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>====
A number of organizations such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC),
AND
will become one of the major sources of anthropogenic climate change by 2050;"

Fourth, unchecked global warming is catastrophic—action now is needed to prevent the collapse of civilization.
**Hansen 12** — <span style="font-size: 10pt;">James Hansen, Director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, Adjunct Professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University, holds a Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Iowa, 2012 ("Game Over for the Climate," </span>New York Times<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, May 12, Available Online at [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html?_r=1%26pagewanted=print-http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html?_r=1%26pagewanted=print]], Accessed 08-07-2012)</span>
Global warming isn~’t a prediction. It is happening<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That is why I was so troubled to read a recent interview with President Obama in Rolling Stone in which he said that Canada would exploit the oil in its vast tar sands reserves "regardless of what we do."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If Canada proceeds, and we do nothing, it will be game over for the climate.</span>
Canada~’s tar sands, deposits of sand saturated with bitumen, contain twice the amount
AND
planet~’s species would be driven to extinction. Civilization would be at risk.
That is the long-term outlook. But near-term, things will
AND
could no longer be irrigated. Food prices would rise to unprecedented levels.
If this sounds apocalyptic, it is. This is why we need to reduce emissions dramatically<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. President Obama has the power not only to deny tar sands oil additional access to Gulf Coast refining, which Canada desires in part for export markets, but also to encourage economic incentives to leave tar sands and other dirty fuels in the ground.</span>
The global warming signal is now louder than the noise of random weather<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as I predicted would happen by now in the journal Science in 1981. Extremely hot summers have increased noticeably. </span>We can say with high confidence that the recent heat waves<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Texas and Russia, and the one in Europe in 2003, which killed tens of thousands, </span>were not natural events — they were caused by human-induced climate change<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
We have known since the 1800s that carbon dioxide traps heat in the atmosphere.
AND
— and it~’s because we are forcing them higher with fossil fuel emissions.
The concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has risen from 280 parts per million
AND
, leave our children a climate system that is out of their control.
We need to start reducing emissions significantly, not create new ways to increase them
AND
superfluous, according to economic models driven by a slowly rising carbon price.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But instead of placing a rising fee on carbon emissions to make fossil fuels pay their true costs, leveling the energy playing field, the world~’s governments are forcing the public to subsidize fossil fuels with hundreds of billions of dollars per year. This encourages a frantic stampede to extract every fossil fuel through mountaintop removal, longwall mining, hydraulic fracturing, tar sands and tar shale extraction, and deep ocean and Arctic drilling.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama speaks of a "planet in peril," but he does not provide the leadership needed to change the world~’s course. Our leaders must speak candidly to the public — which yearns for open, honest discussion — explaining that our continued technological leadership and economic well-being demand a reasoned change of our energy course. History has shown that the American public can rise to the challenge, but leadership is essential.</span>
The science of the situation is clear — it~’s time for the politics to follow
AND
any longer to avoid the worst and be judged immoral by coming generations.







==1AC-Solvency== 


The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.
**ALPA 12 (Air Line Pilots Association International, June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html~~%23top-http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html]]~~]**

Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines
To maintain a competitive advantage in the international marketplace, the United States~’ national airspace
AND
in the NAS to guarantee the safest possible travel is similarly being diminished.
Existing and emerging technologies hold the promise of significant increases in the ability to maintain or improve levels of safety while improving capacity and efficiency of our system,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> allowing our airlines to grow and ultimately save costs, resulting in a better business environment and more level playing field for U.S. airlines.</span>
NextGen, in its mature state, will improve efficiency of operations, enhance both
AND
our airlines and our nation~’s economy, as well as a better customer experience
The upgrade from the current outdated system to a modern, more efficient one is
AND
and training for pilots, controllers, and technicians must all be fully integrated
Policy Recommendation: The U.S. government can help level the playing field for U.S. airlines and their employees by investing in NextGen to promote greater safety and efficiency.
The administration and Congress must work to accelerate the FAA~’s NextGen plan<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The scope, duration, and cost of NextGen require that decisions on critical aspects,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such as funding and equipage</span>, must be timely, accurate, and focused on the overall needs of the public<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Strong government leadership, consistent long-term funding, and cooperative planning are all needed<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.</span>


NextGen fund created by the plan is needed to overcome these barriers.
**Hinton 11** (Christopher, Reporter – MarketWatch, "Airlines Uneasy Over Costly Bid to Replace Radar", MarketWatch, 5-19, http://www.marketwatch.com/Story/story/print?guid=D235C056-7D9A-11E0-915A-00212804637C)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Help was supposed to come by scrapping the 1950s-era ground-based air-traffic control system in favor of a 21st-century satellite-based tracking technology. </span>GPS-assisted aircraft<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> could then fly closer together, react faster to changing flight conditions and optimize their landing approaches.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It~’s an upgrade that </span>could save<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the airlines </span>hundred of millions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of dollars </span>a year<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
But the U.S. plan to achieve that<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, estimated to cost %2440 billion, </span>is stuck on the ground<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Poor planning and the politics of fiscal austerity have left the system only partially installed. Now, airline executives are so disillusioned that they~’re balking at buying additional cockpit gear for a program they say isn~’t delivering on its promise<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even avionic suppliers with rich contracts at stake in the plan came up with a novel way of making their equipment more affordable, aircraft operators haven~’t changed their position.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Many carriers — Delta, Southwest, American, United — we have all made significant investments in equipage for our existing fleets that we are not using," said Delta Air Lines (NYSE:DAL) Chief Executive Richard Anderson, during a recent conference call with reporters. "We want to leverage the technology we have today before we add more technology and more cost."</span>
For the F<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ederal </span>A<span style="font-size: 8pt;">viation </span>A<span style="font-size: 8pt;">dministration, </span>which is overseeing<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the so-called </span>NextGen<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> plan, </span>the loss of confidence is a<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nother </span>black eye for an agency<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> still smarting from the furor over napping air-traffic controllers and a sharp rise in close calls of mid-air collisions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a watchdog report last week, the U.S. Department of Transportation~’s inspector general criticized the FAA for not coming up with an "integrated master schedule" for NextGen, and highlighted design decisions that put the entire program~’s cost and schedule targets at further risk.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Growth goals </span>In the long run, such uncertainty threatens to undermine the program and its broader economic benefits.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Local </span>officials<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the New York area </span>have been hopeful that NextGen would<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not only </span>drive down delay times<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but also </span>allow more aircraft to land at<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its </span>airports and help spur more<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> than %24</span>5 billion in growth<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by 2030.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the FAA~’s part, agency officials have shrugged off the concerns and defended NextGen phase-in as being on schedule since work began in 2004.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once it~’s online, NextGen is supposed to replace a radar system that first took shape in the aftermath of World War II.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Essentially a GPS system, NextGen is designed to be more accurate than radar and allow computers to track aircraft. Instead of flying in easy-to-monitor "skyways," pilots could go "off road" and fly more efficient trajectories, supporters say.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The system would also help pilots plan their flight times and plot optimal landing approaches, and it allows dispatchers to narrow the space between arriving aircraft to less than a mile compared with the roughly three miles now maintained. Such optimizing is estimated to reduce flight delays by 35%, lowering fuel use and cutting pollution.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the price for jet fuel up four-fold in the last decade, it~’s a system the airlines can~’t start using soon enough. But higher fuel prices have also squeezed profit margins, and some airlines say they can no longer stomach NextGen upgrades done haphazardly or subject to delay.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, the program~’s potential %24160 billion in build-out costs over 15 years represent a lucrative target for aerospace and avionics companies like ITT Corp. (USC:ITT) , Boeing Co. (NYSE:BA) , Lockheed Martin Corp. (NYSE:LMT) , Honeywell International Inc. (NYSE:HON) , and General Electric Co. (NYSE:GE) .</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Last month, avionic companies acted to soften airlines~’ hardened position by having Congressional allies propose a public-private partnership as part of an FAA funding bill. The arrangement aims to lease avionic equipment to aircraft operators, with options to buy.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Loan guarantees</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Called </span>the NextGen Equipage Fund, it would be financed with %241.5 billion in private capital,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with ITT as the lead investor, </span>and largely guaranteed by the federal government<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Backers say </span>the fund~’s advantage is that it can equip the airlines without a large cash outlay or taking on more debt, and payments would be deferred until the FAA delivers the related services<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to Russell Chew, managing partner of Nexa General Partnership Capital, which would manage the fund.</span>
"The deferred payments are an important selling point to airlines that are short on cash, or have been burnt by the U.S. in past attempts to upgrade the traffic-control system,"<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chew said.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some of that </span>equipment would include Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast, which gives pilots highly accurate data on an aircraft~’s position<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in relation to others. That would allow pilots to fly more efficient trajectories between airports and closely line up their planes on final runway approaches, shortening the times between individual landings and saving fuel.</span>
It could also include revamping communications with a data-exchange system between air traffic controllers and pilots<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, decreasing the reliance on voice communication and reducing the chance of error. It would also streamline departure clearances, airborne reroutes and taxiway information.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The fund is enough to equip up to 75% of the retrofit-able aircraft," Chew said. "And the airlines need the majority of other airlines to get equipped; otherwise you have a mix of planes that burdens air traffic control and reduces NextGen use."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The House passed the FAA funding bill in April, and it now awaits reconciliation with a version cleared in the Senate.</span>
"If the fund did pass, it would certainly benefit us significantly,"<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> said Clay Jones, CEO of Rockwell Collins Inc. (NYSE:COL) , which builds some the cockpit equipment. </span>"The fund would accelerate airlines~’ move to NextGen."
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ground equipment for Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast should be in place by 2013, the FAA says.</span>


Plan overcomes 4 hurdles to implementation – Uncertainty, FAA delivery, getting money, and equipage. It fiats or incentivizes all of those
**Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Conclusion</span>
NextGen is faced with four major hurdles<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>
Uncertainty Regarding NextGen~’s Benefits<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These is still disagreement among industry experts regarding to what extent NextGen can improve aviation. This is one of the reasons behind the failure to make a sufficient business case for operators to invest in on-board equipage.</span>
Uncertainty Regarding the FAA~’s Ability to Deliver. Even though a lack of strong political
AND
This uncertainty exacerbates the lack of incentives for operators to invest in equipage.
Securing funding for infrastructure. The AATF has relied on increasing general fund contributions in
AND
equitable long term funding mechanism for FAA~’s portion of NextGen~’s capital investment needs.
Equipage. Operators have shown little progress towards equipping their aircraft. This is primarily
AND
will eventually have to invest in equipage particularly if there are benefits involved.



== == 

=Johns Creek RB-Aff-Milton= 

===1AC - Plan Text=== 

The United States Federal Government should substantially invest to fully fund the Next Generation Air Traffic Management System.




===OI. The story of the status quo=== 

The status quo has recognized the need to address air traffic control issues - however, new projects, such as NextGen, are not being funded. The delays in rolling out this project will actually gut the program from ever being implemented
**Hoover, senior editor for InformationWeek Government, 2011 ~~[J. Nicholas, "Problems plague FAA~’s NextGen air traffic control upgrade", InformationWeek Government, [[**http://www.informationweek.com/news/government/info-management/231900067-http://www.informationweek.com/news/government/info-management/231900067]]~~] ttate/foster/cass
The Federal Aviation Administration continues to struggle with budgets, deadlines, and management of its multi-billion dollar upgrades to the nation~’s air traffic control systems, government officials and industry executives told Congress on Wednesday.
The long-term, multi-stage NextGen effort, which has been underway for several years and isn~’t slated to be complete until approximately 2025, aims to improve American aviation by upgrading numerous Cold War-era flight systems. But the effort has long suffered problems.
Within the last couple of years, the FAA has instituted a number of changes to improve NextGen~’s management, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">including working closely with an advisory group made up of users and other constituents, changing the NextGen program so that it directly reports to the FAA~’s deputy administrator, and centralized program management for the effort.</span>
However, ongoing problems continue to threaten the program~’s costs and timeline <span style="font-size: 7pt;">and have kept private industry in the dark about the program~’s benefits and schedule, the officials and executives told the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.</span>
As a result, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">according to Lee Moak, president of the Air Line Pilots Association, a group that represents the interests of 53,000 pilots, and Ed Bolen, president and CEO of the National Business Aviation Association,</span> manufacturers are building and delivering future-proofed planes and carriers are putting new processes in place but can~’t take advantage of all their capabilities because of delays in or improper management of NextGen.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">For example, numerous carriers are ready to adopt procedures that they co-developed with the FAA to provide "smooth, fuel efficient, low emission descents that reduce ~~[the need for~~] communications and enhance safety during good weather conditions" and others that help out in poor weather conditions, Bolen said. But the FAA doesn~’t even have plans or approval processes to permit planes to follow these procedures even as jet fuel costs continue to rise.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In another case, the En Route Automatic Modernization (ERAM) system, a computer system to provide communications and generate display data for air traffic controllers, is about 5 years behind schedule and as much as %24500 million over budget, according to a study by Mitre Corp.</span>
According to FAA Inspector General Calvin Scovel, early testing of ERAM revealed problems with
AND
hasn~’t conducted an assessment of ERAM~’s dependencies or impacts on other program costs.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">At a higher level, Scovel noted,</span> the FAA has yet to develop an integrated master schedule to help manage NextGen, meaning that "programs are left with no clear end state."
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The officials and executives pointed to a number of causes for the delays and cost overruns, including unstable requirements, poor program and contract management, the inability of the FAA to bring all constituents into the decision-making process, training, and a lack of communication.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Now, added to that list might be the fiscal environment</span>. Amidst all the turbulence, Congress is considering slashing spending at the Federal Aviation Administration between 5% and 10%, which could further delay implementation of some pieces of NextGen.
"There~’s no question that reduced funding will cause delays, and that the delays
AND
the President~’s funding level is really what we need to get us there."
The government has already spent nearly %243 billion on NextGen, and the effort will likely cost into the tens of billions of dollars. By 2018, the FAA estimates that, thanks to NextGen, airlines will see a 35% improvement in delays and save more than a billion gallons of fuel. However, with continued problems and looming budget cuts, those numbers may be hard to reach.

And, the airline industry is near brink of collapse - 2011 reported decade-low flights and profit losses
**Reuters 02-24-12**,http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/14/us-usa-airlines-departures-idUSTRE81D21220120214, "Flights by U.S. airlines hit 10-year low",2/14/12, international news agency.

(Reuters) - U.S. airlines in 2011 operated the fewest number
AND
traffic network from a radar-based system to one relying on satellites.




===1AC-Inherency - Next Gen Funding Stalled=== 


Lack of funding delaying implementation of NextGen
**NPR 2011 ~~[Brian Naylor, "~’NextGen~’ Air Traffic System Has Yet to Take Off", October 15, [[**http://www.npr.org/2011/10/15/141378127/nextgen-air-traffic-system-has-yet-to-take-off-http://www.npr.org/2011/10/15/141378127/nextgen-air-traffic-system-has-yet-to-take-off]]~~] ttate
The government is trying to modernize the nation~’s air traffic control system, but cost overruns, software problems and management concerns are making some wonder whether the so-called "Next Generation" system may take another generation to complete.
The radar screens in the nation~’s aircraft control towers are based on technology dating to World War II. Many of the routes airliners fly were laid out at a time pilots followed bonfires for navigation at night.
The promise of NextGen, as explained in a video on the Federal Aviation Administration~’s website, is to bring all that into the 21st century.
"<span style="font-size: 6pt;">You will appreciate the increased safety, environmental benefits and reduced delays as the Next Generation Air Transportation System is adopted," the video says.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What sounds so whizzbang in the video isn~’t really all that different from the satellite-based GPS navigation systems many Americans have in their cars,</span> but adopting that technology to the airline industry has been a challenge.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The Transportation Department~’s inspector general reported that one of the key software components of the system is running more than %24300 million over budget and might not be fully phased in for another five years.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Airlines, too, have been investing in elements of the new system. One, in particular, would enable aircraft to land in a more efficient, fuel-saving manner — better than the way planes land now.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">"You can actually feel it, where a plane will lose altitude and it will drop, say 5,000 feet, and then it will stay steady for a while at the same altitude and then it will drop again," says Steve Lott with the Air Transport Association, the airline industry lobbying group. "It~’s this stepped landing approach that is not particularly efficient, and using satellite technology, we can have a smoother landing."</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Lott says the airline industry wants the FAA to allow more use of the advanced navigation procedure, for which many aircraft are now equipped. The deputy administrator of the FAA, Michael Huerta, told a congressional panel recently the agency is working on making that happen.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">"In the year ahead, what we really want to do is focus on how can we improve the quality of these procedures, and how can we see the very real benefits associated with reduced fuel consumption, reduced time and corresponding environmental benefits as well," he says.</span>
But Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood says until Congress approves a long-term bill for the FAA, the NextGen program will remain in a holding pattern.
"We~’re stuck in mid-air because of the fact that Congress won~’t pass an FAA bill. As soon as they pass a bill, we~’ve got a big, bold vision for Next Generation technology," he says.
The government~’s share of the NextGen program is estimated to be more than %2420 billion. That~’s another big concern of its supporters — coming up with that cash at the same time the government is desperately looking for ways to cut spending.

Next Gen won~’t be fully funded in the status quo - lack of federal commitment means project won~’t be completed
**Holeywill and Lippman 12 ~~[Ryan - staff writer @ Governing and Daniel - Governing contributor, "The 5 biggest US Infrastructure projects, plus 5 at risk", Governing,** http://www.governing.com/topics/transportation-infrastructure/gov-5-biggest-us-infrastructure-projects-plus-5-at-risk.html~~] ttate
The project, which aviation administrators began planning in 2003, is dubbed NextGen,
AND
"They won~’t provide the big, incremental investment … that~’s ultimately necessary."

Cuts to NextGen budget now – stable funding key to reliability and efficiency
**GAO 11 ~~[The U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) is an independent, nonpartisan agency that works for Congress and investigates how the federal government spends taxpayer dollars. This paper was written by Gerald L. Dillingham, Ph.D., who is the Director of Physical Infrastructure Issues "NEXT GENERATION AIR TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM FAA Has Made Some Progress in Implementation, but Delays Threaten to Impact Costs and Benefits"** **http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/585588.pdf, 10-5-11~~]Lin**
Delays in program implementation, as described above, and budget constraints have also affected
AND
needed to prevent failures and maintain the reliability and efficiency of current operations.


Congress bickering is blocking the roll-out of NextGen
**Karp 12** ~~[Aaron - senior editor at Air Transport World,"US chamber says NexGen ATC should be ~’top priority~’", http://atwonline.com/operations-maintenance/news/us-chamber-says-nextgen-atc-should-be-top-priority-0112, 1/13/12~~] Jeong
US Chamber of Commerce president and CEO Thomas Donohue called on Congress to make transitioning
AND
noticed, there~’s an election coming up in the United States as well."






===1AC - Environment Advantage=== 


First, Aviation in the status quo will continue to increase the amount of emissions they contribute to our global footprint
**Fleming 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Aviation and Climate Change: Aircraft Emissions Expected to Grow, but Technological and Operational Improvements and Government Policies Can Help Control Emissions June 8, 2009 Statement of Susan Fleming, Director, Physical Infrastructure Issues. June 8, 2009 This is a GAO report. LexisNexis.) FOSTER</span>
Many sources, including manufacturing, residential, and transportation sources, emit greenhouse gases
AND
ETS will include all covered flights into or out of an EU airport.

And, even though the status quo has taken steps to reduce emissions, increasing air traffic is thumping it - we must find ways to reduce flight paths and delays
**GAO 08**,Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-08-706T, "NextGen and Research and Development Are Keys to Reducing Emissions and Their Impact on Health and Climate", 5/6/8. jeong

Collaboration between the federal government and the aviation industry has led to reductions in aviation
AND
could affect the financial solvency and competitiveness of U.S. airlines.


And, the aviation industry is key to our global carbon footprint - this will only continue to rapidly increase if we don~’t find efficient ways to reduce fuel use
**Sebastian and Piltz 07** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Thea Sebastian, Research Associate</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rick Piltz, Director</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Climate Science Watch</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Washington, DC, "NextGen Air Transportation</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">System Progress Reports Ignore</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Climate Change</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Evidence", July 2007, AD: 07/10/12, [[http://www.climatesciencewatch.org/file-uploads/NextGen_final_18jul07.pdf-http://www.climatesciencewatch.org/file-uploads/NextGen_final_18jul07.pdf]] ~| Kushal)</span>

¶ Aviation Emissions and Atmospheric Warming¶ The impact of aviation on the environment,
AND
step in that direction; however, much research remains to be done.



NextGen key to solve warming; satellite system saves 24 billion pounds of CO2
**Kell y 11** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Gary Kelly is the chairman of the board, president and CEO of Southwest Airlines, "We need 21st century air traffic control", 4/27/11, AD: 07/09/12, [[http://money.cnn.com/2011/04/27/news/companies/air-traffic-control-modernization/index.htm-http://money.cnn.com/2011/04/27/news/companies/air-traffic-control-modernization/index.htm]] ~| Kushal/foster)</span>

It~’s been a tough decade for the U.S. airline industry. Over
AND
, along with the entire domestic airline industry, is ready for NextGen now


And, warming solves for extinction
**Stein 07** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David, Science Editor for The Canadian, "Scientists say Humanity ignores Antarctic melting and Greenhouse gas time-bombs with the price of Mass-Extinction", 2007, AD: 07/10/12, [[http://www.agoracosmopolitan.com/home/Frontpage/2007/02/26/01381.html-http://www.agoracosmopolitan.com/home/Frontpage/2007/02/26/01381.html]] ~| Kushal)</span>

Global Warming continues to be approaches by governments as a "luxury" item,
AND
small portions of the ice sheet rise and sink," Dr Bindschadler said.¶

===1AC - Hegemony Advantage=== 


First, drones will inevitably be inhabiting our national airspace by 2015 - they will be flying side by side civilian aircraft
Boyle 12 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Rebecca, staff writer for Popular Science, "Drones Will Be Admitted to Standard US Airspace By 2015", 02/07/12, AD: 07/11/12, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2012-02/under-newly-authorized-airspace-rules-drones-will-fly-alongside-piloted-planes-2015-http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2012-02/under-newly-authorized-airspace-rules-drones-will-fly-alongside-piloted-planes-2015]] ~| Kushal) </span>

The skies are going to look very different pretty soon, and it~’s been a
AND
to President Obama for his signature, will finally get things moving again.


And, integrating our airspace with staffed and unstaffed systems is key to our power projection and securing the skies - Next Gen is key to those aligning capabilities
Palmer 11 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Al, University of North Dakota, "The Importance of Furthering UAV-ATC Discussions", UAS: The Global Perspective - 9th Edition - June 2011, AD: 07/11/12, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=6%26ved=0CF8QFjAF%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.uvs-info.com%2Findex.php%3Foption%3Dcom_docman%26task%3Ddoc_download%26gid%3D7270%26Itemid%3D20%26ei=g4_9T_2vF6be2AWkmYnPBg%26usg=AFQjCNH2wt0-JdhQoo614V9Evyd4IXvhXg-http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=6%26ved=0CF8QFjAF%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.uvs-info.com%2Findex.php%3Foption%3Dcom_docman%26task%3Ddoc_download%26gid%3D7270%26Itemid%3D20%26ei=g4_9T_2vF6be2AWkmYnPBg%26usg=AFQjCNH2wt0-JdhQoo614V9Evyd4IXvhXg]] ~| Kushal) </span>

North Dakota is heavily involved in UAS-related activities including airspace integration, pilot
AND
playing a leadership role in¶ UAS-related activities in North Dakota.


And, NextGen provides interoperability between military and U.S. airspace
Babbitt 09 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(J. Randolph Babbitt, administrator of the FAA, "Air Traffic Control Association Convention - "Cooperation, Collaboration and Interoperability", 10/05/09, AD: 07/12/12, [[http://www.atc-network.com/News/31385/Air-Traffic-Control-Association-Convention-Cooperation-Collaboration-and-Interoperability--http://www.atc-network.com/News/31385/Air-Traffic-Control-Association-Convention-Cooperation-Collaboration-and-Interoperability-]] ~| Kushal)</span>
As always, kudos to ATCA on a good show. But before we get
AND
what it needs. The rest is up to us all of us.


Interoperability enhances domestic military capabilities
ICAO 11 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(International Civil Aviation Organization, "Civil/Military Cooperation in Air Traffic Management", 2011, AD: 07/13/12, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=8%26ved=0CGIQFjAH%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.paris.icao.int%2Fdocuments_open_meetings%2Fdownload.php%3Fmaincategory%3D200%26subcategory%3D203%26file%3DCirc%2520330_en.pdf%26ei=1zIAUJGmOuXg2wWE44yWBA%26usg=AFQjCNHw_Ec1jE3aHt0DdL0hta9q-T_ZZg%26sig2=JDVknbEwPcEZdq-UJqeORg-http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=8%26ved=0CGIQFjAH%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.paris.icao.int%2Fdocuments_open_meetings%2Fdownload.php%3Fmaincategory%3D200%26subcategory%3D203%26file%3DCirc%2520330_en.pdf%26ei=1zIAUJGmOuXg2wWE44yWBA%26usg=AFQjCNHw_Ec1jE3aHt0DdL0hta9q-T_ZZg%26sig2=JDVknbEwPcEZdq-UJqeORg]] ~| Kushal)</span>

Interoperability at the operational level occurs when strategic, political and technical interoperability come together
AND
to allow those systems access to a free exchange of information as required.




Securitizing our national airspace is key to our forward-deployed power projection, which is key to hegemony and de-escalation of conflict
Thayer 6 – <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(professor of security studies @ Missouri State Bradley, The National Interest, "In Defense of Primacy", November/December, p. 32-37, Kushal) </span>

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world~’s
AND
strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.


US hegemony prevents multiple scenarios for conflict and nuclear war- prefer it to any other power structure; all of their impacts are more likely in a world without American predominance
Kagan 7<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment of International Peace, "End of Dreams, Return of History", 2007, AD: 07/11/12, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html~~%23n10-http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html]] ~| Kushal)</span>

Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it is also
AND
that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global






===1AC-Solvency=== 
**Contention II. Solvency**


NextGen solves using GPS and flight procedures - results in billions of dollars in profit and flight delay reduction
**GBTA 12**, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Global Business Travel Association, "NextGen – Air Traffic Control Modernization", 2012, AD: 07/09/12, [[https://www.gbta.org/usa/governmentrelations/Pages/NextGenAirTrafficControlModernization.aspx-https://www.gbta.org/usa/governmentrelations/Pages/NextGenAirTrafficControlModernization.aspx]] ~| Kushal)</span>

The Issue: The nation~’s air traffic control (ATC) system, based on
AND
agency leadership is essential to strengthen the management, oversight and implementation programs.













=Johns Creek PV- Aff- Milton= 
===**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>**=== 
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The FAA authorization bill’s failure to resolve air-traffic-control issues non-uniques your disads but continues to freeze NextGen projects</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Poole 12</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Robert Poole – Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow and Director of Transportation Policy, “Air Traffic Control Reform Newsletter #90”, February 24th, 2012, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://reason.org/news/printer/air-traffic-control-reform-news-90]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Chetan]</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">After 23 extensions since the</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> nominal </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">expiration of the last FAA authorization</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sept.</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">cuts in all federal discretionary spending as a future deficit-reduction measure.)</span>

===<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2 is Warming</span>=== 

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Warming is real and human induced – emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Somerville 11 </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Professor of Oceanography at UCSD Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">In</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> early </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2007</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, at the time of the publication of WG1 of AR4,</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">next five to ten years</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, reaching near zero well within this century.</span>











<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> AND – It’s the most likely scenario for extinction</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Deibel 7</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;"> [Terry L. Professor of IR at National War College, 2007 “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today]</span>





<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">there is one major existential threat</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to American security (as well as</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">States, but potentially </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">to the continued existence of life on this planet</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>











<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No offense – increase in CO2 will overall lead to decrease in crop production and cause global starvation</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Strom 7</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Robert Strom, Professor Emeritus of planetary sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona, 2007 (studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center, a NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, “Hot House”, SpringerLink, p. 211-216]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __Agriculture is critical to__ </span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the survival of civilization</span>__**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Crops feed not only us but</span>__



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __AND__</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">starvation, and political and economic chaos with all their ramifications for civilization.</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The Plan solves - prevents at least 4.8 million tons of CO2 emissions every minute.</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">TIACA 10</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(The International Air Cargo Association, non-profit trade association for the air cargo industry, It is a worldwide organization that serves a membership which includes all major segments of the air cargo and logistics industry, “The multiple benefits of modernization”, 2010,<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.tiaca.org/images/tiaca/PDF/IndustryAffairs/Air%20Traffic%20Management%20-%20Pages%20from%20Industry%20Affairs%20Positions-10.pdf]]</span>, //CJD)</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Current air traffic managementsystems</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> are based on proceduresthat </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">were developed in the</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 19</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">50s</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">their approach to ATMsystems be global in nature and reflectharmonized standards.</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Airline emissions are comparatively the largest contributor to climate change</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hodgkinson 7 </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(David Hodgkinson et al, June 2007, Associate Professor in the Law School at UWA; Special Counsel with Clayton Utz, a national Australian law firm; and a principal of The Hodgkinson Group, a consulting firm with advisors located around the world. David is the co-author of the book Global Climate Change: Australian Law and Policy (2008) and the general editor of Australian Climate Change Law and Policy (2009). As executive director of EcoCarbon, a non-profit organisation, he manages an industry partnership which is building capacity in mechanisms designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. He also leads an international project team working on a draft convention for persons displaced by climate change, “STRATEGIES FOR AIRLINES ON AIRCRAFT EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE CHANGE: SUSTAINABLE, LONG - TERM SOLUTIONS”, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.hodgkinsongroup.com/documents/Hodgkinson_airline_emissions.bak.pdf]]</span></span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> A number of organisations such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">IPCC</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">),</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> result, aviation may exceed the carbon target for all sectors by 2050.</span>











<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Air-traffic modernization is modeled globally – US led collaboration tackles the environmental issues with aviation </span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">JPDO 10</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Joint Planning and Development Office, “Next Generation Air Transportation System International Strategy”, January 7th, 2010,</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.jpdo.gov/library/InformationPapers/JPDO_International%20Strategy.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Chetan]</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> *paraphrased for abelism</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NextGen will deliver improved services and resulting operational benefits</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> in all areas of aviation to</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> , spectrum allocations, weather and aeronautical information exchange models, and others.</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No alt causes – the plan solves other transportation emissions and air pollution</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">NEXA 11</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[NEXA Advisors, April, NEXA Capital Partners provides corporate and strategic financial advisory services, and capital investment, to the aerospace, transportation, logistics and homeland security sectors, “NextGen Equipage Fund Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues”, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> In 2008 </span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">GAO advocated</span>__** <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">accelerated deployment of NextGen to realize environmental benefits</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. xv </span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">More</span>__**



**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__**



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">will also improve international flight efficiencies, further reducing emissions and greenhouse gasses</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>












===**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Contention 3 is Monitoring</span>**=== 

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No civil Unoccupied Air Vehicles in the status quo but NextGen solves that</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">JPDO 11</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – [Joint Planning and Development Office “Operating Unmanned Aircraft Systems in 2018 and Beyond: NextGen Challenges and Opportunities” </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.jpdo.gov/newsarticle.asp?id=146|__http://www.jpdo.gov/newsarticle.asp?id=146__]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The integration of</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Unmanned Aircraft Systems </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(UAS) into</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the National Airspace System (</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">specify that they will operate in the NAS using "electronic" IFR.</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>















<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 1 is __disease__ - </span>











<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Pandemic risk high now – information is necessary mitigate their spread and development</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Ford et al 09</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> [</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates)( Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, September 2009, v.15]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The scientific community has a relative</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">consensus that epidemic and pandemic disease risks will </span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">belief that a strong global satellite program is essential for future disease prediction.</span>











<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Improved UAV’s are necessary to identify and manage disease spread</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Ehsana & Sankaran 10 </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Reza Ehsani - Ph.D. in Biological and Agricultural Engineering,</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> University of California at Davis & M.S.(1992) Agricultural Engineering, Tehran University, Sindhuja Sankaran – Post-Doctoral Research Associate at the University of Florida, Citrus Research and Education Sensor, June 2010, “Sensors and sensing technologies for disease detection”, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.crec.ifas.ufl.edu/extension/trade_journals/2010/2010%20June%20sensoring%20technology.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> JEF]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The selection of a sensor platform ¶ is a key factor that determines the cost </span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> sensors for preliminary </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">screening with further confirmation </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">using molecular methods.</span>























<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Developed diseases will cause extinction</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Yu 9 </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[5/22/09, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Writer, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,”</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __A pandemic will kill off all humans.__</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> In the past, humans have indeed </span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __strain — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain__</span>







===**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt; line-height: 1.5;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>**=== 
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Federal funding is key to jumpstart FFA-privatization partnerships- overcomes all status quo barriers</span>**

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Carey 11- </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">senior editor at the aviation international news online, (Bill, “Public-Private Partnerships Among Proposals to Advance NextGen”, AIN online, July 27th, 2012, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2011-07-27/public-private-partnerships-among-proposals-advance-nextgen]]</span>, </span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CJD)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">That imposing bill</span>////<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and the increasing likelihood that a federal government $14 trillion in </span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">start thinking out of the box and to do things a little differently.” </span>//





=Johns Creek LP- AFF= 
===**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>**=== 
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The FAA authorization bill’s failure to resolve air-traffic-control issues non-uniques your disads but continues to freeze NextGen projects</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Poole 12</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Robert Poole – Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow and Director of Transportation Policy, “Air Traffic Control Reform Newsletter #90”, February 24th, 2012, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://reason.org/news/printer/air-traffic-control-reform-news-90]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Chetan]</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">After 23 extensions since the</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> nominal </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">expiration of the last FAA authorization</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sept.</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">cuts in all federal discretionary spending as a future deficit-reduction measure.)</span>

=== === 

===**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Contention 3 is Monitoring</span>**=== 

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No civil Unoccupied Air Vehicles in the status quo but NextGen solves that</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">JPDO 11</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – [Joint Planning and Development Office “Operating Unmanned Aircraft Systems in 2018 and Beyond: NextGen Challenges and Opportunities” </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.jpdo.gov/newsarticle.asp?id=146|__http://www.jpdo.gov/newsarticle.asp?id=146__]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The integration of</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Unmanned Aircraft Systems </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(UAS) into</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the National Airspace System (</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">specify that they will operate in the NAS using "electronic" IFR.</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>















====<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 1 is __disease__ -</span>==== 











<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Pandemic risk high now – information is necessary mitigate their spread and development</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Ford et al 09</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> [</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates)( Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, September 2009, v.15]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The scientific community has a relative</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">consensus that epidemic and pandemic disease risks will</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">belief that a strong global satellite program is essential for future disease prediction.</span>











<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Improved UAV’s are necessary to identify and manage disease spread</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Ehsana & Sankaran 10 </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Reza Ehsani - Ph.D. in Biological and Agricultural Engineering,</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">University of California at Davis & M.S.(1992) Agricultural Engineering, Tehran University, Sindhuja Sankaran – Post-Doctoral Research Associate at the University of Florida, Citrus Research and Education Sensor, June 2010, “Sensors and sensing technologies for disease detection”, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.crec.ifas.ufl.edu/extension/trade_journals/2010/2010%20June%20sensoring%20technology.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> JEF]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The selection of a sensor platform ¶ is a key factor that determines the cost</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">sensors for preliminary </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">screening with further confirmation </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">using molecular methods.</span>























<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Developed diseases will cause extinction</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Yu 9 </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[5/22/09, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Writer, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,”</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>







<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">__A pandemic will kill off all humans.__</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> In the past, humans have indeed</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>



<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">__strain — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain__</span>




====Scenario 2 is destruction==== 





**Effective UAV~’s are the only monitoring system that has good enough technology to solve for coastal environments**
**Pereira et al 09** ~~[E. Pereira, R. Bencatel Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,¶ Faculty of Engineering of Porto, Porto Laboratory of Aeronautical Science and Technology, Air Force Academy, Sintra, Spring 2009, "Unmanned Air Vehicles for coastal and environmental research", [[http://paginas.fe.up.pt/~~dee07011/uploads/Main/UAV_CoastalEnvironmentalResearch.pdf-http://paginas.fe.up.pt/~dee07011/uploads/Main/UAV_CoastalEnvironmentalResearch.pdf]] JEF~~]

The project RAVEN (Remote Aerial Vehicle for Environment monitoring) (O~’YOUNG AND HUBBARD
AND
interlace filter can be ¶ able to reduce the vibration effect in the video


**Continued accelerating ocean loss causes extinction**

**Rogers and Laffoley 11**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">~~[</span>6/20/11 Alex David, Ph.D. in marine invertebrate systematics and geneticsfrom the University of Liverpool is a Professor in Conservation Biology at the Department of Zoology, University of Oxford and Dan, PhD on marine ecology at the University of Exeter, and Senior Advisor, Marine Science and Conservation Global Marine and Polar Programme (IPSO Oxford, "International earth system expert workshop on ocean stresses and impacts", July 20, 2011, [[http://www.stateoftheocean.org/pdfs/1906_IPSO-LONG.pdf-http://www.stateoftheocean.org/pdfs/1906_IPSO-LONG.pdf]]~~]


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The workshop enabled leading experts to take a global view on how all the different effects we are having on the ocean are compromising its ability to support us. This examination of synergistic threats leads to the conclusion that we have underestimated the overall risks and that the whole of marine degradation is greater than the sum of its parts, and that degradation is now happening at a faster rate than predicted. It is clear that the traditional economic and consumer values that formerly served society well, when coupled with current rates of population increase, are not sustainable. The ocean is the largest ecosystem on Earth, supports us and maintains our world in a habitable condition. To maintain the goods and services it has provided to humankind for millennia demands change in how we view, manage, govern and use marine ecosystems. The scale of the stresses on the ocean means that deferring action will increase costs in the future leading to even greater losses of benefits. The key points needed to drive a common sense rethink are: • Human actions have resulted in warming and acidification of the oceans and are now causing increased hypoxia. Studies of the Earth~’s past indicate that these are three symptoms that indicate disturbances of the carbon cycle associated with each of the previous five mass extinctions on Earth (e.g. Erwin, 2008; Veron, 2008a,b; Veron et al., 2009; Barnosky et al., 2011). • The speeds of many negative changes to the ocean are near to or are tracking the worstcase scenarios from IPCC and other predictions. Some are as predicted, but many are faster than anticipated, and many are still accelerating. Consequences of current rates of change already matching those predicted under the "worst case scenario" include: the rate of decrease in Arctic Sea Ice (Stroeve et al., 2007; Wang %26 Overland, 2009) and in the accelerated melting of both the Greenland icesheet (Velicogna, 2009; Khan et al., 2010; Rignot et al., 2011) and Antarctic ice sheets (Chen et al., 2009; Rignot et al., 2008, 2011; Velicogna, 2009); sea level rise (Rahmstorf 2007a,b; Rahmstorf et al., 2007; Nicholls et al., 2011); and release of trapped methane from the seabed (Westbrook et al., 2009; Shakova et al., 2010; although not yet globally significant Dlugokencky et al., 2009). The ~’worst case~’ effects are compounding other changes more consistent with predictions including: changes in the distribution and abundance of marine species (Beaugrand %26 Reid, 2003; Beaugrand 2004, 2009; Beaugrand et al., 2003; 2010; Cheung et al. 2009, 2010, Reid et al., 2007; Johnson et al., 2011; Philippart et al., 2011; Schiel, 2011; Wassmann et al., 2011; Wernberg et al., 2011); changes in primary production (Behrenfeld et al., 2006; Chavez et al., 2011); changes in the distribution of harmful algal blooms (Heisler et al., 2008; Bauman et al., 2010); increases in health hazards in the oceans (e.g. ciguatera, pathogens; Van Dolah, 2000; Lipp et al., 2002; Dickey %26 Plakas, 2009); and loss of both large, longklived and small fish species causing widespread impacts on marine ecosystems, including direct impacts on predator and prey species, the simplification and destabilization of food webs, reduction of resilience to the effects of climate change (e.g. Jackson et al. 2001; Pauly et al., 1998; Worm %26 Myers, 2003; Baum %26 Myers, 2004; Rosenberg et al., 2005; Worm et al., 2006; Myers et al., 2007; Jackson, 2008; Baum %26 Worm, 2009; Ferretti et al., 2010; Hutchings et al., 2010; WardkPaige et al., 2010; Pinskya et al., 2011). • The magnitude of the cumulative impacts on the ocean is greater than previously understood Interactions between different impacts can be negatively synergistic (negative impact greater than sum of individual stressors) or they can be antagonistic (lowering the effects of individual impacts). Examples of such interactions include: combinations of overfishing, physical disturbance, climate change effects, nutrient runoff and introductions of nonknative species leading to explosions of these invasive species, including harmful algal blooms, and dead zones (Rabalais et al., 2001, 2002; Daskalov et al., 2007; Purcell et al., 2007; Boero et al., 2008; Heisler et al., 2008; Dickey %26 Plakas, 2009; Bauman et al., 2010; VaquerkSunur %26 Duarte, 2010); increased temperature and acidification increasing the susceptibility of corals to bleaching (Anthony et al., 2008) and acting synergistically to impact the reproduction and development of other marine invertebrates (Parker et al., 2009); changes in the behavior, fate and toxicity of heavy metals with acidification (Millero et al., 2009; Pascal et al., 2010); acidification may reduce the limiting effect of iron availability on primary production in some parts of the ocean (Shi et al., 2010; King et al., 2011); increased uptake of plastics by fauna (Andrady 2011, Hirai %26 Takada et al. 2011, Murray %26 Cowie, 2011), and increased bioavailability of pollutants through adsorption onto the surface of microplastic particles (Graham %26 Thompson 2009, Moore 2008, Thomson, et al., 2009); and feedbacks of climate change impacts on the oceans (temperature rise, sea level rise, loss of ice cover, acidification, increased storm intensity, methane release) on their rate of CO2 uptake and global warming (Lenton et al., 2008; Reid et al 2009). • Timelines for action are shrinking. The longer the delay in reducing emissions the higher the annual reduction rate will have to be and the greater the financial cost. Delays will mean increased environmental damage with greater socioeconomic impacts and costs of mitigation and adaptation measures. • Resilience of the ocean to climate change impacts is severely compromised by the other stressors from human activities, including fisheries, pollution and habitat destruction. Examples include the overfishing of reef grazers, nutrient runoff, and other forms of pollution (presence of pathogens or endocrine disrupting chemicals (Porte et al., 2006; OSPAR 2010)) reducing the recovery ability of reefs from temperaturekinduced mass coral bleaching (Hoeghk Guldberg et al., 2007; Mumby et al., 2007; Hughes et al., 2010; Jackson, 2010; Mumby %26 Harborne, 2010) . These multiple stressors promote the phase shift of reef ecosystems from being coralkdominated to algal dominated. The loss of genetic diversity from overfishing reduces ability to adapt to stressors. • Ecosystem collapse is occurring as a result of both current and emerging stressors. Stressors include chemical pollutants, agriculture runkoff, sediment loads and overkextraction of many components of food webs which singly and together severely impair the functioning of ecosystems. Consequences include the potential increase of harmful algal blooms in recent decades (Van Dolah, 2000; Landsberg, 2002; Heisler et al., 2008; Dickey %26 Plakas, 2009; Wang %26 Wu, 2009); the spread of oxygen depleted or dead zones (Rabalais et al., 2002; Diaz %26 Rosenberg, 2008; VaquerkSunyer %26 Duarte, 2008); the disturbance of the structure and functioning of marine food webs, to the benefit of planktonic organisms of low nutritional value, such as jellyfish or other gelatinousklike organisms (Broduer et al., 1999; Mills, 2001; Pauly et al. 2009; Boero et al., 2008; Moore et al., 2008); dramatic changes in the microbial communities with negative impacts at the ecosystem scale (Dinsdale et al., 2008; Jackson, 2010); and the impact of emerging chemical contaminants in ecosystems (la Farré et al., 2008). This impairment damages or eliminates the ability of ecosystems to support humans. • The extinction threat to marine species is rapidly increasing. The main causes of extinctions of marine species to date are overexploitation and habitat loss (Dulvy et al., 2009). However climate change is increasingly adding to this, as evidenced by the recent IUCN Red List Assessment of reforming corals (Carpenter et al., 2008). Some other species ranges have already extended or shifted polekwards and into deeper cooler waters (Reid et al., 2009); this may not be possible for some species to achieve, potentially leading to reduced habitats and more extinctions. Shifts in currents and temperatures will affect the food supply of animals, including at critical early stages, potentially testing their ability to survive. The participants concluded that not only are we already experiencing severe declines in many species to the point of commercial extinction in some cases, and an unparalleled rate of regional extinctions of habitat types (eg mangroves and seagrass meadows), but we now face losing marine species and entire marine ecosystems, such as coral reefs, within a single generation. Unless action is taken now, the consequences of our activities are at a high risk of causing, through the combined effects of climate change, overexploitation, pollution and habitat loss, the next globally significant extinction event in the ocean. It is notable that the occurrence of multiple high intensity stressors has been a prerequisite for all the five global extinction events of the past 600 million years (Barnosky et al., 2009).</span>







===**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>**=== 
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Federal funding is key to jumpstart FFA-privatization partnerships- overcomes all status quo barriers</span>**

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Carey 11- </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">senior editor at the aviation international news online, (Bill, “Public-Private Partnerships Among Proposals to Advance NextGen”, AIN online, July 27th, 2012, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2011-07-27/public-private-partnerships-among-proposals-advance-nextgen]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CJD)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">That imposing bill</span>////<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and the increasing likelihood that a federal government $14 trillion in</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">start thinking out of the box and to do things a little differently.”</span>//
=Johns Creek GT- AFF- Milton= 
===1AC Plan=== 

The United States federal government should make available long-term contract loan guarantees for commercial equipage of Next Generation Air Transportation System technology.
===1AC Economic Growth Advantage=== 

Contention 1: Economic Growth

First, government stimulus is key to economic growth—there will be no recovery without increased spending.
**Stone 12** — Chad Stone, Chief Economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Yale University, 2012 ("Misguided Deficit and Inflation Fears Impede Economic Recovery," Economic Intelligence—a U.S. News %26 World Report blog, July 12^^th^^, Available Online at http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/economic-intelligence/2012/07/12/misguided-deficit-and-inflation-fears-impede-economic-recovery, Accessed 07-20-2012)
Last week~’s disappointing jobs report<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for June </span>showed that a strong labor market recovery remains elusive. Policymakers have the tools to boost economic growth and reduce the unemployment rate faster through more stimulative<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> monetary and fiscal </span>policies, but they are not using them. That makes no sense<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
When the economy is performing well, deficit-financed government spending or tax cuts
AND
costs from fiscal or monetary stimulus would tilt heavily toward the cost side.
The situation, however, is very different when the economy is in a slump
AND
5.7 trillion by the time the economy returns to full employment.
Under these circumstances, deficit-financed government spending<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or well-targeted tax cuts </span>can increase economic activity and reduce the substantial waste associated with underutilized labor and other productive resources<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The additional debt would likely still weigh on future growth, but </span>the benefits from increasing current economic activity would be substantial<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Policymakers can eliminate the future costs if they pair short-term stimulus with policies that reduce the deficit in the future when the economy is stronger.</span>


Second, infrastructure stimulus is key to economic growth—job creation, multiplier effect, long-term productivity, and it pays for itself.
**New America Foundation 10** — New America Foundation—"a nonprofit, nonpartisan public policy institute that invests in new thinkers and new ideas to address the next generation of challenges facing the United States," 2010 ("The Case for an Infrastructure-Led Jobs and Growth Strategy," February 23^^rd^^, Available Online at http://www.newamerica.net/publications/policy/the_case_for_an_infrastructure_led_jobs_and_growth_strategy, Accessed 06-09-2012)
As the Senate takes up a greatly scaled down %2415 billion jobs bill stripped
AND
in the short and medium term and our prosperity in the longer term.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rather than go from one negligible jobs bill to the next, the administration and Congress should, as the governors suggest, map out a multi-year plan of infrastructure investment and make it the centerpiece of an ongoing economic recovery program. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here is why:</span>
With American consumers constrained by high household debt levels and with businesses needing to work
AND
levels of private investment and provide millions of new jobs for American workers.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">More specifically, </span>public infrastructure investment would have the following favorable benefits for the economy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>
Job Creation. Public infrastructure investment would directly create jobs, particularly high-quality
AND
more indirectly, helping to return the economy to something approaching full employment.
A Healthy Multiplier Effect. Public infrastructure investment not only creates jobs but generates a
AND
would raise GDP by nearly %24480 billion (close to 4 percent).
A More Productive Economy. Public infrastructure investment would not only help stimulate the economy
AND
energy, and clean technology require major infrastructure improvements or new public infrastructure.
Needed Investments that Will Pay for Themselves. New infrastructure investment can easily be financed
AND
recoup the cost of the investment through stronger growth and higher tax revenues.


Third, investment in NextGen effectively stimulates the economy—the plan powers short-term job creation.
**Coalition 12** (Aeronautical Repair Station Association, Aerospace Industries Association, Air Carrier Association of America, Air Transport Association, Aircraft Owners %26 Pilots Association, American Society of Travel Agents, Cargo Airline Association, General Aviation Manufacturers Association, Helicopter Association International, Interactive Travel Services Association, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, National Air Carrier Association, National Air Transportation Association, National Association of Manufacturers, National Business Aviation Association, Inc., National Business Travel Association, Regional Airline Association, U.S. Travel Association, "Coalition Letter to House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Leadership On Creating Job Growth Through NextGen," November 23, http://www.airlines.org/Pages/Coalition-Letter-to-House-Transportation-and-Infrastructure-Committee-Leadership-On-Creating-Job-Growth-Through-NextGen.aspx)
Accelerated NextGen funding will drive the nation~’s economic recovery and stimulate job growth across all sectors<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Joint Economic Committee has estimated that airline delays and congestion cost %2440 billion in lost productivity and time for passengers and our economy. Solving the congestion and delay problems through more direct flights and increased efficiencies will increase productivity across the nation and put a serious dent in that %2440 billion of lost productivity.</span>
NextGen deployment will employ thousands of engineers, software developers and other high-tech
AND
that rely on just-in-time global inventories and shipping capability.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aviation in the Forefront of "Green" Initiatives</span>
Accelerated NextGen implementation also has the potential to put aviation at the forefront of "
AND
be deployed "as soon as practicable" to realize these environmental benefits.
This week President Obama challenged the public and private sector alike to find ways to
AND
provide the infrastructure which will lead to long term efficiencies and economic growth.


Independently, civil aviation will stall over the long-term without NextGen—the plan is crucial to sustain economic growth.
**Blakey 11** (Marion C., President and CEO – Aerospace Industries Association, "The Future of NextGen", Congress Blog – The Hill, 2-15, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/144119-the-future-of-nextgen)
The House and Senate have each declared passage of a new FAA Authorization bill a
AND
give FAA the tools to keep our nation the leader in civil aviation.


And, aviation is crucial to the long-term growth of the economy—NextGen solves.
**AIA 11** (Aerospace Industries Association, "Civil Aviation – Second to None", http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/ip_civil_2011.pdf)
ISSUE: The U.S. civil aviation industry plays a vital role in
AND
implementation stays on schedule by fully funding FAA~’s capital and RE%26D accounts


The impact is large: economic growth is crucial to address all global challenges.
**Silk 93** — Leonard Silk, Distinguished Professor of Economics at Pace University, Senior Research Fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and former Economics Columnist with the New York Times, 1993 ("Dangers of Slow Growth," Foreign Affairs, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like the Great Depression, </span>the current economic slump has fanned the firs of nationalist, ethnic and religious hatred around the world. Economic hardship is not the only cause of these social and political pathologies, but it aggravates all of them, and in turn they feed back on economic development. They<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>undermine efforts to deal with such global problems as environmental pollution, the production and trafficking of drugs, crime, sickness, famine, AIDS and other plagues<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
Growth will not solve all those problems by itself. But economic growth – and growth alone – creates the additional resources that make it possible to achieve such fundamental goals as higher living standards, national and collective security, a healthier environment, and more liberal and open economies and societies<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Finally, economic decline increases the risk of war—strong statistical support.
**Royal 10** — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 ("Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises," Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span>periods of economic decline<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> may </span>increase the likelihood of external conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. </span>
First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson~’s
AND
the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown.
Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland~’s (1996, 2000) theory of
AND
on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Moreover, </span>the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (Blomberg %26 Hess, 2002. p. 89) </span>
Economic decline has<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>been linked with an increase in<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the likelihood of </span>terrorism<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Blomberg, Hess, %26 Weerapana, 2004), </span>which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. "Diversionary theory
AND
popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas </span>political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span>
This<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> observation </span>is not contradictory to<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> other </span>perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the likelihood of external </span>conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. ~~[end page 214~~] </span>Those studies<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and </span>do not specifically consider<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the occurrence of and conditions created by </span>economic crises<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>


===1AC Aerospace Competitiveness Advantage=== 

Contention 2: Aerospace Competitiveness

First, failure to upgrade our Air Traffic Control system is putting the U.S. aerospace industry at risk.
**Blakey 11** (Marion, president and CEO of the Aerospace Industries Association, "US Tech Lead in Jeopardy", Aviation Weekly, EBSCO)
But with budget worries crowding out all other concerns in Washington these days, this
AND
that air travel continues to connect our people and drive innovation and growth.


Second, NextGen equipage is vital to sustain American aerospace competiveness.
**NEXA 11** (NEXA Advisors — a consulting company, "NextGen Equipage Fund: Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues," [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf-http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]])
Improved air transportation results in more efficient business operations, reduced costs, and increased U.S. international competitiveness<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. xviii </span>NextGen will improve U.S. competitiveness by lowering the travel time and therefore the costs for both passengers and cargo. Just-in-time inventory management facilitated by efficient air cargo operations plays an important role in the U.S. maintaining global competitiveness<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
The aerospace industry provides a significant positive contribution to the U.S. balance of trade<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. xix </span>The U.S. competitive position can be reinforced by taking leadership in aircraft equipage for NextGen technologies. This leadership applies to both the U.S. air transport sector<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>and the aerospace manufacturing sector<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, OEM and component alike.</span>


Third, U.S. aerospace competitiveness is the backbone of American military power.
**Aerospace Commission 2** — Commissioners of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry, a commission created by Congress and President Bush to study the future of the U.S. aerospace industry, 2002 ("Vision: Anyone, Anything, Anywhere, Anytime," Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry, November, Available Online at [[http://trade.gov/static/aero_rpt_aero_commission.pdf-http://trade.gov/static/aero_rpt_aero_commission.pdf]], Accessed 08-09-2012, p. 1-2)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As America prepares to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Wright brothers~’ historic achievement in aviation, our Commission was struck with how the U.S. aerospace industry has shaped the 20th century not only for America but also for the world. Indeed, </span>U.S. leadership has been responsible for superior achievement in many important industries, but aerospace has been our crown jewel<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
Our national security, economic growth, quality of life, and scientific achievements now depend on a myriad of aerospace products and services. These benefits<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> we enjoy as a nation </span>are the direct result of U.S. leadership in aerospace<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Unfortunately, </span>most Americans take the benefits of aerospace leadership for granted<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Meanwhile, </span>foreign nations clearly recognize the potential benefits from aerospace and are attempting to wrest global leadership away from us<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nevertheless, where we have the national will, such as in defense, we continue to be the world leader. Where we do not have the national will, such as in civil aviation and commercial space, our leadership position is at risk.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Security. </span>Aerospace technologies form the strategic and tactical backbone of U.S. military capabilities, providing global mobility, space-based communications and intelligence, defense against airborne threats, sea and aerospace control, long range precision strike, and protection and tactical mobility for ground forces. Aerospace capabilities provide unique contributions to U.S. national security as well as underwrite the capabilities of allied coalitions with whom we are involved in the vital work of maintaining international peace and security<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


And, strong U.S. military power is crucial to international stability—it allows the U.S. to shape the political and economic order to ensure peace.
**Nye 10** — Joseph S. Nye, Jr., University Distinguished Service Professor and Former Dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Chair of the National Intelligence Council, and Deputy Under Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard University, 2010 ("Is Military Power Becoming Obsolete?," Project Syndicate, January 11^^th^^, Available Online at http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/nye78/English, Accessed 02-18-2011)
Will military power become less important in the coming decades? It is true that
AND
– will find the use of force not only necessary but morally justified."
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When people speak of military power, they tend to think in terms of the resources that underlie the hard-power behavior of fighting and threatening to fight – soldiers, tanks, planes, ships, and so forth. </span>In the end, if push comes to shove,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such </span>military resources matter<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Napoleon famously said that "God is on the side of the big battalions," and Mao Zedong argued that power comes from the barrel of a gun.</span>
In today~’s world<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span>there is much more to military resources than guns and battalions<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>and more to hard-power behavior than fighting or threatening to fight. Military power is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>used to provide protection for allies and assistance to friends. Such non-coercive use of military resources can be an important source of the soft-power behavior of framing agendas, persuading other governments, and attracting support in world politics<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Even when thinking only of fighting and threats, many analysts focus solely on inter
AND
armed groups. By the 1990~’s, such conflicts were the dominant form.
Of course, civil war and irregular combatants are not new, as even the
AND
to do so) without an army that physically crosses another state~’s border.
War and force may be down, but they are not out<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Instead, the use of force is taking new forms. Military theorists today write about "fourth generation warfare" that sometimes has "no definable battlefields or fronts"; indeed, the distinction between civilian and military may disappear.</span>
The first generation of modern warfare reflected the tactics of line and column following the
AND
larger French and British tank forces in the conquest of France in 1940.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Both ideas and technology drove these changes. The same is true of today~’s fourth generation of modern warfare, which focuses on the enemy~’s society and political will to fight.</span>
Armed groups view conflict as a continuum of political and violent irregular operations over a
AND
combatants and civilians, and physical destruction and information warfare become thoroughly intertwined.
Even if the prospect or threat of the use of force among states has become less probable, it will retain a high impact, and it is just such situations that lead rational actors to purchase expensive insurance. The U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>is likely to be the major issuer of such insurance policies<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This leads to a larger point about the role of military force in world politics. </span>Military power remains important because it structures world politics. It is true that in many relationships and issues, military force is increasingly difficult or costly for states to use. But the fact that military power is not always sufficient in particular situations does not mean that it has lost the ability to structure expectations and shape political calculations<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Markets and economic power rest upon political frameworks: in chaotic conditions of great political uncertainty, markets fail. Political frameworks<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in turn, </span>rest upon norms and institutions, but also upon the management of coercive power. A well-ordered modern state is defined by a monopoly on the legitimate use of force, which allows domestic markets to operate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Internationally<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, where order is more tenuous, </span>residual concerns about the coercive use of force, even if a low probability, can have important effects. Military force<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, along with norms and institutions, </span>helps to provide a minimal degree of order<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Metaphorically, </span>military power provides a degree of security that is to political and economic order as oxygen is to breathing: little noticed until it begins to become scarce. Once that occurs, its absence dominates all else<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this sense, </span>the role of military power in structuring world politics is likely to persist well into the twenty-first century. Military power<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will not have the utility for states that it had in the nineteenth century, but it </span>will remain a crucial component of power in world politics<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Finally, the loss of American military power will increase the risk of global conflict.
**Felzenberg and Gray 11** — Alvin S. Felzenberg, Professorial Lecturer at The Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, Presidential Historian and Adjunct Faculty Member at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, former Fellow at the Institute of Politics at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, served as Principal Spokesman for the 9/11 Commission, holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Princeton University, and Alexander B. Gray, Student at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and the War Studies Department of King~’s College, London, 2011 ("The New Isolationism," National Review, January 3^^rd^^, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/256150, Accessed 01-03-2011)
A world in which the United States willingly ceded power and influence would both be
AND
American military presence on land, at sea, and in the air.


===1AC Warming=== 

First, global warming is real and caused by human activity—reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transportation sector is necessary to prevent long-term climate damage.
**Chapman 7** — Lee Chapman, Senior Lecturer in the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences at the University of Birmingham (UK), holds a Ph.D. from the University of Birmingham, 2007 ("Transport and climate change: a review," Journal of Transport Geography, Volume 15, Issue 5, September, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ScienceDirect, p. 354-357)
Over the last century, the planet has metaphorically contracted as transport has developed to
AND
emissions and discusses ways in which society can adapt to reduce the impacts.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1.1. Climate change</span>
Natural forces ensure that the Earth has experienced a changing climate since the beginning of
AND
page 354~~] a balance ultimately achieved by changes to the global climate.
Radiative forcing, the change in the balance between incoming solar radiation and outgoing infrared
AND
undetected and will ensure that global warming will continue for decades after stabilisation.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1.2. The role of transport</span>
Oil is the dominant fuel source for transportation (Fig. 1a) with road
AND
as 5% per annum for the next decade (Somerville, 2003).
All transport sectors are experiencing expansion (Tables 1 and 2) and unfortunately there
AND
emissions and discusses ways in which society can adapt to reduce the impacts.








The Plan solves - prevents at least 4.8 million tons of CO2 emissions every minute.
TIACA 10 **(The International Air Cargo Association, non-profit trade association for the air cargo industry, It is a worldwide organization that serves a membership which includes all major segments of the air cargo and logistics industry, "The multiple benefits of modernization", 2010,http://www.tiaca.org/images/tiaca/PDF/IndustryAffairs/Air%20Traffic%20Management%20-%20Pages%20from%20Industry%20Affairs%20Positions-10.pdf, //CJD)**

Current air traffic management systems are based on procedures that were developed in the 1950s
AND
their approach to ATM systems be global in nature and reflect harmonized standards.

Third, unchecked global warming is catastrophic—action now is needed to prevent the collapse of civilization.
**Hansen 12** — James Hansen, Director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, Adjunct Professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University, holds a Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Iowa, 2012 ("Game Over for the Climate," New York Times, May 12, Available Online at [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html?_r=1%26pagewanted=print-http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html?_r=1%26pagewanted=print]], Accessed 08-07-2012)
Global warming isn~’t a prediction. It is happening<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That is why I was so troubled to read a recent interview with President Obama in Rolling Stone in which he said that Canada would exploit the oil in its vast tar sands reserves "regardless of what we do."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If Canada proceeds, and we do nothing, it will be game over for the climate.</span>
Canada~’s tar sands, deposits of sand saturated with bitumen, contain twice the amount
AND
planet~’s species would be driven to extinction. Civilization would be at risk.
That is the long-term outlook. But near-term, things will
AND
could no longer be irrigated. Food prices would rise to unprecedented levels.
If this sounds apocalyptic, it is. This is why we need to reduce emissions dramatically<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. President Obama has the power not only to deny tar sands oil additional access to Gulf Coast refining, which Canada desires in part for export markets, but also to encourage economic incentives to leave tar sands and other dirty fuels in the ground.</span>
The global warming signal is now louder than the noise of random weather<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as I predicted would happen by now in the journal Science in 1981. Extremely hot summers have increased noticeably. </span>We can say with high confidence that the recent heat waves<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Texas and Russia, and the one in Europe in 2003, which killed tens of thousands, </span>were not natural events — they were caused by human-induced climate change<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
We have known since the 1800s that carbon dioxide traps heat in the atmosphere.
AND
— and it~’s because we are forcing them higher with fossil fuel emissions.
The concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has risen from 280 parts per million
AND
, leave our children a climate system that is out of their control.
We need to start reducing emissions significantly, not create new ways to increase them
AND
superfluous, according to economic models driven by a slowly rising carbon price.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But instead of placing a rising fee on carbon emissions to make fossil fuels pay their true costs, leveling the energy playing field, the world~’s governments are forcing the public to subsidize fossil fuels with hundreds of billions of dollars per year. This encourages a frantic stampede to extract every fossil fuel through mountaintop removal, longwall mining, hydraulic fracturing, tar sands and tar shale extraction, and deep ocean and Arctic drilling.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama speaks of a "planet in peril," but he does not provide the leadership needed to change the world~’s course. Our leaders must speak candidly to the public — which yearns for open, honest discussion — explaining that our continued technological leadership and economic well-being demand a reasoned change of our energy course. History has shown that the American public can rise to the challenge, but leadership is essential.</span>
The science of the situation is clear — it~’s time for the politics to follow
AND
any longer to avoid the worst and be judged immoral by coming generations.

===1AC Solvency=== 

Contention 3: Solvency

First, airlines won~’t equip NextGen technology because of lack of cash and confidence—the NextGen fund created by the plan is needed to overcome these barriers.
**Hinton 11** (Christopher, Reporter – MarketWatch, "Airlines Uneasy Over Costly Bid to Replace Radar", MarketWatch, 5-19, http://www.marketwatch.com/Story/story/print?guid=D235C056-7D9A-11E0-915A-00212804637C)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Help was supposed to come by scrapping the 1950s-era ground-based air-traffic control system in favor of a 21st-century satellite-based tracking technology. </span>GPS-assisted aircraft<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> could then fly closer together, react faster to changing flight conditions and optimize their landing approaches.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It~’s an upgrade that </span>could save<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the airlines </span>hundred of millions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of dollars </span>a year<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
But the U.S. plan to achieve that<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, estimated to cost %2440 billion, </span>is stuck on the ground<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Poor planning and the politics of fiscal austerity have left the system only partially installed. Now, airline executives are so disillusioned that they~’re balking at buying additional cockpit gear for a program they say isn~’t delivering on its promise<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even avionic suppliers with rich contracts at stake in the plan came up with a novel way of making their equipment more affordable, aircraft operators haven~’t changed their position.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Many carriers — Delta, Southwest, American, United — we have all made significant investments in equipage for our existing fleets that we are not using," said Delta Air Lines (NYSE:DAL) Chief Executive Richard Anderson, during a recent conference call with reporters. "We want to leverage the technology we have today before we add more technology and more cost."</span>
For the F<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ederal </span>A<span style="font-size: 8pt;">viation </span>A<span style="font-size: 8pt;">dministration, </span>which is overseeing<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the so-called </span>NextGen<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> plan, </span>the loss of confidence is a<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nother </span>black eye for an agency<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> still smarting from the furor over napping air-traffic controllers and a sharp rise in close calls of mid-air collisions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a watchdog report last week, the U.S. Department of Transportation~’s inspector general criticized the FAA for not coming up with an "integrated master schedule" for NextGen, and highlighted design decisions that put the entire program~’s cost and schedule targets at further risk.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Growth goals </span>In the long run, such uncertainty threatens to undermine the program and its broader economic benefits.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Local </span>officials<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the New York area </span>have been hopeful that NextGen would<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not only </span>drive down delay times<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but also </span>allow more aircraft to land at<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its </span>airports and help spur more<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> than %24</span>5 billion in growth<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by 2030.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the FAA~’s part, agency officials have shrugged off the concerns and defended NextGen phase-in as being on schedule since work began in 2004.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once it~’s online, NextGen is supposed to replace a radar system that first took shape in the aftermath of World War II.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Essentially a GPS system, NextGen is designed to be more accurate than radar and allow computers to track aircraft. Instead of flying in easy-to-monitor "skyways," pilots could go "off road" and fly more efficient trajectories, supporters say.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The system would also help pilots plan their flight times and plot optimal landing approaches, and it allows dispatchers to narrow the space between arriving aircraft to less than a mile compared with the roughly three miles now maintained. Such optimizing is estimated to reduce flight delays by 35%, lowering fuel use and cutting pollution.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the price for jet fuel up four-fold in the last decade, it~’s a system the airlines can~’t start using soon enough. But higher fuel prices have also squeezed profit margins, and some airlines say they can no longer stomach NextGen upgrades done haphazardly or subject to delay.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, the program~’s potential %24160 billion in build-out costs over 15 years represent a lucrative target for aerospace and avionics companies like ITT Corp. (USC:ITT) , Boeing Co. (NYSE:BA) , Lockheed Martin Corp. (NYSE:LMT) , Honeywell International Inc. (NYSE:HON) , and General Electric Co. (NYSE:GE) .</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Last month, avionic companies acted to soften airlines~’ hardened position by having Congressional allies propose a public-private partnership as part of an FAA funding bill. The arrangement aims to lease avionic equipment to aircraft operators, with options to buy.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Loan guarantees</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Called </span>the NextGen Equipage Fund, it would be financed with %241.5 billion in private capital,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with ITT as the lead investor, </span>and largely guaranteed by the federal government<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Backers say </span>the fund~’s advantage is that it can equip the airlines without a large cash outlay or taking on more debt, and payments would be deferred until the FAA delivers the related services<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to Russell Chew, managing partner of Nexa General Partnership Capital, which would manage the fund.</span>
"The deferred payments are an important selling point to airlines that are short on cash, or have been burnt by the U.S. in past attempts to upgrade the traffic-control system,"<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chew said.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some of that </span>equipment would include Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast, which gives pilots highly accurate data on an aircraft~’s position<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in relation to others. That would allow pilots to fly more efficient trajectories between airports and closely line up their planes on final runway approaches, shortening the times between individual landings and saving fuel.</span>
It could also include revamping communications with a data-exchange system between air traffic controllers and pilots<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, decreasing the reliance on voice communication and reducing the chance of error. It would also streamline departure clearances, airborne reroutes and taxiway information.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The fund is enough to equip up to 75% of the retrofit-able aircraft," Chew said. "And the airlines need the majority of other airlines to get equipped; otherwise you have a mix of planes that burdens air traffic control and reduces NextGen use."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The House passed the FAA funding bill in April, and it now awaits reconciliation with a version cleared in the Senate.</span>
"If the fund did pass, it would certainly benefit us significantly,"<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> said Clay Jones, CEO of Rockwell Collins Inc. (NYSE:COL) , which builds some the cockpit equipment. </span>"The fund would accelerate airlines~’ move to NextGen."
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ground equipment for Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast should be in place by 2013, the FAA says.</span>


Second, successful NextGen roll-out depends on commercial equipage upgrades—the plan is the best way to successfully fund needed investments.
**Dyment 11** (Michael J., General Partner – NextGen Equipage Fund, "Transitioning to Satellite-Based Air Traffic Control", Geospatial Today, 9-15, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US airline position on NextGen</span>
Airline scepticism of the FAA~’s ability to deploy, as well as implement, NextGen infrastructure remains high<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Al-though FAA procurement reforms have produced significant improvements by using more solid contracting practices that better balance risks, </span>airlines remain concerned about the long lead times between required capital investment, and net benefit realisation.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> While US airlines seek ATC modernisation and are generally supportive of the NextGen program, </span>vexing challenges remain:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">* </span>NextGen architecture requires an extensive investment in aircraft equipage, from antennas to black box avionics, displays, and ongoing software upgrades<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is widely accepted, for example, that the cost savings afforded by ADS-B "Out" reside primarily with the FAA and its ability to phase out expensive secondary radar systems, while airlines bear most of the cost. This comes when US airlines can little afford to make such nonproductive investments.</span>
* Major NextGen benefits can be delivered only when more than half of the air
AND
analysis shows a 90 per cent correlation between capacity expansion and equipage level.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">* Aircraft equipage issues aside, FAA controllers will need ATC display changes, new procedures, and training in order to cut over to NextGen operations, to realise the benefits. But details remain in the cut-over to NextGen, and will require close cooperation between FAA and airlines.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">* Global interoperability with these new systems and architectures will be essential, and while many working groups are seeking solutions to harmonisation challenges, questions remain about the end-state architectures, requirements and investment costs for both airlines and ATC service providers.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NextGen equipage costs</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While FAA infrastructure cost estimates have produced stable figures, not much is agreed upon with respect to exact aircraft equipage costs. Consequently, NextGen Equipage Fund conducted a detailed domestic turbine fleet forecast from 2009 through 2020 to provide estimated aircraft population and demographics as the foundation for the Fund~’s performance and capacity.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Accurate depiction of the equipage environment requires categorisation of the existing domestic fleet since there are various configurations of avionics within the aircraft fleet currently in service. The NextGen Fund developed a list of categories with the assistance of industry experts. These categories ("Families") are based on aircraft production year and the ARINC engineering standards in operation.</span>
Target equipage segments in the turbine aircraft category and associated unit costs range in estimated
AND
still require some form of retrofit, update, or up-grade.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The forecast used these Families to construct an equipage cost outlook with each existing avionics configuration and the new equipment required to achieve NextGen DataComm, ADS-B, and Air-SWIM capability, including varying com-binations of required equipment.</span>
The NextGen Fund prepared this information to project the cost of equipage for eligible retrofit
AND
debt and equity raise and future cash flows generated from NextGen Fund operations.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Equipage risk sharing partnership</span>
A plan to share the capital investment risks among key stakeholders is the best way to ensure NextGen equipage targets are met<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Figure 5 summarises costs and benefits of participation and risk-sharing by the major stakeholder groups.</span>
Discussions with airlines and FAA have pointed to the need for the parties to enter into agreements to memorialise these shared risks<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is anticipated that a Memorandum of Agreement ("MOA") would commit the three parties to certain obligations and to incur costs as certain capabilities come online, and by extension can begin to produce benefits such as reduced delays, lower fuel costs, greater aircraft utilization, and related incremental new revenues.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conclusion</span>
Without a large and well-funded equipage financing solution capable of addressing key stakeholder risks, there will be no NextGen system for the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>
The NextGen Fund intends to remove barriers to equipage that could impede or threaten the
AND
the critical path to realising the benefits of a fully functioning NextGen system.


Finally, federal loan guarantees jump-start airline equipage—government investment is key.
**Halsey 11** (Ashley, Reporter – Washington Post, "Antidote To Air Gridlock May Not Get Off Ground", Washington Post, 7-4, http://o.seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/boeingaerospace/2015510103_airtraffic05.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Case for investing</span>
Making the business case that will persuade airlines to take the financial plunge is at the core of the debate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
The single biggest incentive to airlines would be persuasive evidence of an immediate return on their investment in fuel savings and fewer delays<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. One suggestion has been to allow NextGen-equipped planes to land and take off first. Given that a jetliner can burn through %241,000 in fuel in less than a half-hour, circling the airport in a holding pattern becomes an expensive proposition.</span>
With most U.S. airlines operating in the red, Chew says few will take the investment leap unless the government has more "skin in the game" than promises and deadlines<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Chew is leading an investment group that proposes to lend the airlines money to equip their planes<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, with a repayment plan that is deferred until the FAA delivers the system. </span>The key<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span>is that the federal government must agree to make loan payments if the FAA misses its deadlines<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
"If the government OKs loan guarantees for equipage, it would jump-start the process,"<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chew said. "</span>The airlines are not going to want to make any kind of payments until the FAA is ready to deliver<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If they don~’t deliver by 2018, then the airlines are off the hook for these payments."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chew says the FAA and Congress have been receptive to that form of loan guarantee, but so far without committing to it. </span>With Congress in a cost-cutting mood, loan guarantees may provide a viable alternative to slashing a program that virtually everyone supports<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=Negative= 
==Disads== 
===Inflation DA=== 
__First__, inflation remains __low__ but __further stimulus__ will increase it—investor perception is __on the brink__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Time Business 12</span> — Time Business, 2012 (“Fed Inflation Hawks Warn More Stimulus Could Fuel Prices,” Byline Sam Gustin, April 11th, Available Online at http://business.time.com/2012/04/11/fed-inflation-hawks-warn-more-stimulus-could-fuel-prices/, Accessed 06-30-2012)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Are inflation hawks preparing … canaries in the coal mine.</span>

__Second__, inflation __tanks growth__—investor perception __negates stimulus benefits__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Volcker 11</span> — Paul A. Volcker, served as Chairman of the Federal Reserve from 1979 to 1987, worked for the federal government for over 30 years serving under John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon, Jimmy Carter, and Ronald Reagan, 2011 (“A Little Inflation Can Be a Dangerous Thing,” //New York Times//, September 18th, Available Online at http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/19/opinion/a-little-inflation-can-be-a-dangerous-thing.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print, Accessed 06-30-2012)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So now </span>we are … would be //simply irresponsible//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

__Third__, inflation __outweighs__ recession—it is a __better internal link__ to their economy impact.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria 9</span> — Fareed Zakaria, Columnist for //Newsweek// and Editor of //Newsweek International//, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard University, 2009 (“The Secrets of Stability: Why terrorism and economic turmoil won't keep the world down for long,” //Newsweek//, December 11th, Available Online at [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/12/11/the-secrets-of-stability.print.html]], Accessed 08-08-2012)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Peace is like oxygen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>//a key precondition for stability//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 16px;">Russia Oil</span>=== 

__First__, high oil prices are driving Russian __economic and political stability__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adomanis 8/16/12</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Mark, Financial Contributor @ Forbes, "Russia's Economy is Still Growing Faster than Every EU Country," http://www.forbes.com/sites/markadomanis/2012/08/16/russias-economy-is-still-growing-faster-than-every-eu-country/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I’ve been pretty …essentially the same track.</span>

__Second__, substantial reductions in US oil consumption cause speculators to value oil lower. This drastically cuts global prices.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yetiv and Feld 07</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Steve and Lowell, Professor of political science at Old Dominion University and senior international oil markets analyst at the U.S. Energy Information Administration until March 2006, “America's Oil Market Power: The Unused Weapon Against Iran,” World Policy Journal, p. proquest)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is typical of world … or actual disruptions. </span>


__Third__, high oil prices are key to the Russian economy — diversification is destructive
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Feifer 11</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Gregory, Editor and Senior Correspondent for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, //Russia's Image as Energy Superpower Benefitting from Middle East Crisis//, http://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/Russia-s-Image-as-Energy-Superpower-Benefitting-from-Middle-East-Crisis.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With U.S.-led fighter jets … </span> __for the next 12 years__.


__Fourth__, Russian economic decline risks global nuclear conflict
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Filger 9</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Sheldon, Columnist and Founder – Global EconomicCrisis.com, “Russian Economy Faces Disasterous Free Fall Contraction”, [[@http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]])</span>

__In Russia, historically…is its least dangerous consequence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Federalism DA=== 
A.) Unique Link – the plan destroys federalism by reasserting federal control over transportation; only the counterplan restores the proper balance
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Horowitz, 2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Daniel, writer for Red State, “Devolve Transportation Spending to States”, January 19, http://www.redstate.com/dhorowitz3/2012/01/19/devolve-transportation-spending-to-states/) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">One of the numerous … for bold conservative solutions.</span>

B.) Impact – Federalism is key to prevent escalating warfare
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calabresi, 1995</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven G., Assistant Professor, Northwestern University School of Law, “Reflections on United States v. Lopez: ‘A Government of Limited and Enumerated Powers’: In Defense of United States v. Lopez”, December, Lexis) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Small </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">state federalism …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the U.S. Supreme Court.</span>

And – Federalism is critical to maintain U.S. hegemonic leadership
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rivlin, 1992</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alice, Brookings Institution, Reviving the American Dream: The Economy, The States, and the Federal Government, 1992)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The inexorably rising … and the national government.</span>

And – U.S. leadership prevents world-ending nuclear catastrophes
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad, 1995</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalmay, RAND, the Washington Quarterly, Spring)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the third option…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of power system.</span>

==CPs== 
===**States CP**=== 
**Text: the fifty states, Washington D.C., and relevant territorial actors should [Insert Plan] The fifty states should amend their respective constitutions to allow them to run a limited deficit.**

The counterplan solves the entire Aff and avoids our net-benefits based on federal investment
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edwards, 2011</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Chris, Director of Tax Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, “Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don’t Bank on It”, October 21, http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/infrastructure-projects-to-fix-the-economy-dont-bank-on-it/2011/10/18/gIQAgtZi3L_story_1.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the federal government … public.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> They’re ready.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]