<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the Port Security Grant Program.</span>

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention One is Inherency</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> –</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vital</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">successful</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> WMD attack are </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">high</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frantz, 7-15</span>-12 – Douglas, “Port security: U.S. fails to meet deadline for scanning of cargo containers,” Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html]].
The Obama administration has failed to meet a legal deadline for scanning all shipping containers
AND
who wants to get a weapon of mass destruction into the United States.”

<span class="Heading4Char">//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Solutions exist</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> but __drastic__ cuts to the Port Security Grant Program __destroy port security__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of
AND
“Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cost and technology aren’t barriers – failure to act immediately is __fatal__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al, ’12</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse,” New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Only</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> more grant investment in infrastructure can solve </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA, ’11</span> – The American Association of Port Authorities represents about 150 of the leading public port authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean. In addition, the Association represents some 250 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in the seaports of the Western Hemisphere. “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports,” Sept 1, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]].
In the decade since Sept. 11, 2001, America's seaports and the federal
AND
job creation and economic prosperity, and important partners in our national defense."

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Two</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> __is the National Preparedness Goal__ – </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.
1. What is the purpose of the FY 2012 PSGP? ¶ The purpose
AND
can be provided to one of the core capabilities ¶ within the NPG.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The NPG is critical to __coordination__ against __large-scale__, __catastrophic__ events </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].
As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD-8),
AND
you can participate. Thank you for your commitment to our national preparedness.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Interagency Operational Plans to strengthen the NPG are due on __September 25th__ – that halts __cyberterror__, __pandemics__ , __natural disasters__ and __transnational threats__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, “Presidential Policy Directive 8: National Preparedness,” Updated on July 10th (see the note included in the evidence below – control+F “Update – July 10, 2012,” [[http://www.fema.gov/presidential-policy-directive-8-national-preparedness]].
National preparedness is aimed
AND
in all of our PPD-8 efforts.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The NPG is //necessary// to solving __each__ internal link </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
In accordance with PPD-8, and in coordination with Federal departments and agencies
AND
as ¶ part of the recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cybersecurity</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> is vital to prevent __escalatory__ __great power__ nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pandemics</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> at ports //instantly// kill __billions__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Greger, ‘6</span>**–** Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States. Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com]
A pandemic today could be many times worse than the pandemic of 1918, the
AND
…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pandemics outweigh on __probability__ and __size__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Natural disasters</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> threaten human extinction __faster__ than any warscenario</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]]</span>]
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transnational threats</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> are __try or die__ __for human extinction__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Feffer, ‘9</span>. John, Contributing Member/Researcher at Foreign Policy in Focus, “World Beat,” FPIF, Feb 17. Vol. 4 No. 7. Lexis.
The neoconservative movement thrilled to what it called the "unipolar moment." After the
AND
an empire. I can hear the adding machine totting up the numbers.

<span class="Heading4Char">//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Only</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> the NPG can develop a __framework__ for //effective// __risk management__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, “Presidential Policy Directive 8: National Preparedness,” Updated on July 10th (see the note included in the evidence below – control+F “Update – July 10, 2012,” [[http://www.fema.gov/presidential-policy-directive-8-national-preparedness]].
FEMA has developed a set of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) pertaining to the
AND
September 2011. For questions, please contact us at PPD8-Engagement.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The __process__ of the plan is vital – it shapes __core budget decisions__ and //all// future federal assistance </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
The Goal is designed to prepare our Nation for the risks that will severely tax
AND
allow for annual adjustments based on updated priorities and our resource ¶ posture.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Three is Energy Security</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> – </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Seaport security is vital to preventing attacks on key oil, nuclear and LNG terminals </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Most US energy power plants, critical bridges, and densely populated urban areas lay
AND
The US Coast Guard has a central role in confronting such seaborne threats.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">It’s </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">empirically proven</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> that these forms of infrastructure are </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">highly-targeted</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
3.2.2.1 Critical Coastal Targets. Maritime terrorism has hit
AND
security systems. These new regulations increased the transportation cost of ammonium nitrate.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Three</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 13pt;">scenarios</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">:</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">a. __Oil__ – Attacks destroy __refineries__ and __three billion tons__ of oil </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CFR, ‘6</span> – Council on Foreign Relations, backgrounder. “Targets for Terrorism: Ports,” January, http://www.cfr.org/port-security/targets-terrorism-ports/p10215.
Could terrorists attack U.S. ports?¶ Yes. Experts warn that U
AND
-five Islamist extremists entered the United States by hiding in shipping containers.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">That __spikes__ prices __overnight__ – barriers are //easily// overcome</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USA Today, ’11 </span>– “Oil tanker terror hijacks easy, attacks complex,” 5-21, http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2011-05-21-terror-plot-oil-tankers_n.htm
The FBI and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued a confidential
AND
pull off a terror attack on a supertanker, especially in Asian waters.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Oil spikes produce __great power nuclear wars__ with a __high probability__ of escalation </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Qasem, ‘7</span> – Islam Yasin, Masters in IR from Columbia, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” 7-9, http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm]
If the conflict-ridden and oil-rich Middle East today is crucial to
AND
before reaching the zenith of a disaster which is already in the making.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">b. __Meltdowns__ – nuclear plants are //extremely// vulnerable to __catastrophic__ terror attacks</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rockwell, ’12</span> – Mark, “Study says nuclear plant designs need stepped-up attention to security,” Government Security Magazine, [[http://www.gsnmagazine.com/node/25600?c=infrastructure_protection]].
While protections for nuclear plants from possible terror attacks have improved dramatically since 9/
AND
environment. Zirconium is the material commonly used in cladding the fuel rods.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Meltdowns cause __extinction__ – global contamination will be __uncontainable__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lendman, ‘11</span>. Stephen, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” 3-13, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]].
"As a physician, I contend that nuclear technology threatens life on our planet
AND
, Canada, Mexico, Central America, and parts of South America.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">c. __LNG__ – insufficient __funding__ makes liquid natural gas attacks __catastrophic__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kaplan, ‘6</span> – CFR Security Analyst, “Liquefied Natural Gas: A Potential Terrorist Target?” Council on Foreign Relations, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3|http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3]].
Are LNG ships and terminals potential terrorist targets?¶ Yes, because of LNG's explosive
AND
were designed primarily for safety patrols, not armed combat," he says.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LNG explosions outweigh nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lovin and Lovin, ‘1</span> – Amory B. Lovin, Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute, and L. Hunter Lovin, President – National Capitalism and Co-Founder – Rocky Mountain Institute, “Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security”, 2001, [[http://www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2FDownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3DBrittlePower3PtCombo.pdf%26title%3DBrit|www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2FDownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3DBrittlePower3PtCombo.pdf%26title%3DBrit]]
About nine percent of such a tankerload of LNG will probably, if spilled onto
AND
of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.

__**NEG**__

===1st off is topicality=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">A. “Transportation infrastructure” is one of five major categories – the aff is distinct </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Heintz 9</span> (James, Associate Research Professor and Associate Director – Political Economy Research Institute, et al., “How Infrastructure Investments Support the U.S. Economy: Employment, Productivity and Growth”, January, http://americanmanufacturing.org/files/peri_aam_finaljan16_new.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">II. ASSESSMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS FOR THE U.S.</span>
In the previous section we looked at trends and patterns of public investment since 1950
AND
aims to eliminate the country’s infrastructure deficit can generate millions of new jobs.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this section </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we focus on </span>//four broad categories//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of infrastructure and specific areas of investment within each category. The infrastructure categories are:</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1. </span>//Transportation//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">: the road system; railroads; aviation; mass transit; and inland waterways and levees;</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">2. Public school buildings;</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">3. Water infrastructure: drinking water, wastewater, and dams</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">;</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">4. Energy: electrical transmission, through all sources, including renewables, and natural gas pipeline construction</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These categories constitute the most important components of U.S. economic infrastructure. In addition, public schools represent one of the most important pillars of the country’s social infrastructure, one with important implications for the long-run productivity of the economy’s human resources. Taken together, we capture the most important assets that collectively reflect the state of the nation’s infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this section, we examine each of these areas in turn and then pull the information together to provide a more complete picture of infrastructure needs.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Transportation</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Highways, Roads and Bridges</span>
The nation’s highways, roads, and bridges constitute the single most important transportation system
AND
be structurally deficient and 13.6 percent were ‘functionally obsolete.’
The cost to maintain the U.S. road system in its current condition
AND
61.4 billion over current levels (Department of Transportation, 2006).
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Freight and intercity rail</span>
By 2035, demand for freight rail transportation is expected to double (AAR,
AND
investment gaps would slow down the transition to a clean-energy economy.
Unlike road transportation, rail infrastructure is largely financed by private companies. Since the
AND
congestion, road maintenance costs, as well as increasing greenhouse gas emissions.
A recent study by the Association of American Railroads projects that infrastructure investment of $
AND
best available estimate of the need for additional rail infrastructure in the future.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Aviation</span>
According to forecasts compiled by the Federal Aviation Administration, the number of passengers flying
AND
taken longer and required more investment than initially thought (ASCE, 2005).
According to the results of a survey administered to the nation’s 100 largest airports by
AND
a reasonable estimate of investment needs in the absence of more comprehensive data.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Mass transit</span>
Increased usage of public transportation is one of the most efficient ways to promote energy
AND
particularly at the state and local level (Department of Transportation, 2006).
Despite these improvements, public investment must increase further if the transit system is to
AND
21.8 billion, requiring an additional $9.2 billion.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Inland waterways and levees</span>
Approximately 2.6 billion short tons of commodities are transported on U.S
AND
The estimated cost of updating all the lock systems is $125 billion.
In addition, the Army Corps of Engineers assess the state of the nation’s levees
AND
or about $6.2 billion annually over the next 25 years.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">B. The Aff falls under separate jurisdiction – it is:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">( ____ ) Resource transport </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">( ____ ) Waste management</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">( ____ ) Clean water</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">( ____ ) Rural/sector development</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">( ____ ) Disaster response </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">( ____ ) Something else </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">C. Vote Neg – </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">a. Limits – expanding the topic destroys research depth and quality – we allow 5 core Affs with __lots__ of variation </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">b. Ground – different budget streams and political responses effect __core__ negative link ground – they either incentivize bad generics or destroy competitive equity </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">D. T is a race to the top – your ballot should reward the //best// interpretation for debate </span>**


===2nd off is the counterplan=== 
====The United States federal government should narrowly delegate authority over the United States federal government to dredge, make infrastructure and wharf improvements, and construct CVN nuclear propulsion plant maintenance facilities at Naval Station Mayport for the purpose of homeporting a CVN.to the fifty state governments and appropriate territories. The fifty state governments and appropriate territories should substantially increase investment port dredging, make infrastructure and wharf improvements, and construct CVN nuclear propulsion plant maintenance facilities at Naval Station Mayport for the purpose of homeporting a CVN including dedicated shared fund agreements that collectively match the total of the affirmative allocations.==== 

====Devolution to the states solves- creates efficient labs of innovation which solves the case==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Utt 2012</span> (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Turn Back” Transportation to the States” Feb 7th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states) AS
The federal transportation program has lost its way: It is less and less about
AND
made whole, while donee states would no longer benefit from undeserved subsidies.

===3rd off is Politics:=== 
====Obama winning- best models predict- prefer it to polls==== 
Nate <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silver, 9-18</span>-2012 [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/18/sept-17-electoral-college-may-not-help-obama/]]

The FiveThirtyEight presidential forecast for Monday was essentially unchanged, with President Obama having a
AND
at determining what the consensus of the data says at any given time.

====Funding Transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they __fear wasteful planning__ and __don’t see the upside__.==== 
**Orski ‘12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears</span>

Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

====Obama wins because of his personality-represents face of nation==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IBT, 9-1</span>-2012 [[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/379748/20120901/obama-election-2012-presidential-republicans-romney.htm?page=2]]

¶Beyond the life of the individual, beyond the life of the corporation,
AND
, the injured, the hospitalized. Thank you. God bless you."

====Impact – Republicans will destroy the economy==== 
Dorner 1-2-12 (Josh, is the Communications Director for the
AND
of science in European politics and governance from the London School of Economics.
Think Progress, REPORT: The Republican Candidates’ Economic Agenda For The 1 Percent
[[http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/01/02/395363/gop-economic-agenda-for-the-one-percent/]], jj)

Each and every Republican candidate has called for trillions of dollars in new tax breaks
AND
only embrace this failed economic agenda, they would take it even further.



===4th off is the K=== 
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Link: Federal infrastructure projects are tools of the global capitalist project – they create an imperial ideology that justifies the ruthless expansion of capital</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 8</span> (Jason Scott, assistant professor of history at the University of New Mexico, "The New Deal Order," Enterprise and Society Vol. 9 Num 3, Muse)

By using the lens of political economy to focus on the New Deal's public works
AND
to recognize the historical impact of the New Deal's public works projects.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.go.libproxy.wfubmc.edu/journals/enterprise_and_society/v009/9.3.smith.html#f14|14]]
====Implications: Prolonging the collapse of capitalism exacerbates every impact and ends in extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brown 5</span> (Charles, Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan, May 13, http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm)

The capitalist class owns the factories, the banks, and transportation-the means
AND
at large remains a shameful fact of life in the U.S.
====Alternative: The alternative is to reject the affirmative in order to abandon belief in capitalism==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Johnston 4</span> (Adrian, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, University of New Mexico, Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society, Volume 9/Issue 3)

Perhaps the absence of a detailed practical roadmap in Žižek’s political writings isn’t a major
AND
life-blood, money, is simply a fetishistic crystallization of a beli