[[2012-2012 - Bishop Guertin (NH) - Michael Raposo & Luke Van Seters|Return to main page]]
=Counterplans= 
[[toc]]
==Qatar CP== 
===1NC=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should ask Qatar to substantially increase its investment in expedited port deepening projects in the United States.**

**The counterplan solves the case – channels external investment toward domestic transportation projects**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rediker, 8</span>** (Heidi Rediker, Chief Economist State Department of the United States; “Financing America’s Infrastructure: Putting Global Capital To Work,” http://newamerica.net/files/Financing_America_Infrastructure.PDF)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What is</span>missing is a mechanism ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to achieve our public policy goals</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

**The counterplan is predictable and solves Qatari soft power — the impact is Fatah/Hamas peace**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Sullivan, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Meghan L. O’Sullivan, professor at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, former deputy national security adviser, and Bloomberg columnist; “Tiny Qatar’s Big Plans May Change Mideast: Meghan L. O’Sullivan”, Bloomberg, 9/3/11, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/tiny-qatar-s-big-plans-may-change-u-s-mideast-policy-meghan-o-sullivan.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Qatar, a country of fewer than 2 million people set ...</span> bilateral ties <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is woven, and the payoff goes well beyond corporate profits</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Solves a Syrian strike on Israel**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Petenngill, 11</span>**
(MA-Modern History-University of St. Andrews and Research Fellow-Henry Jackson Society, August, http://www.standpointmag.co.uk/online-only-august11-the-perennial-palestinian-pawns-julia-pettengill-arab-spring-palestine)

__If the deal fails, this gives ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the Israeli government.</span>


**Extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Joshi 2k</span>** (Sharad Joshi, <span style="background-color: white;">Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Center for Non-Proliferation, “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis”, Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA, Vol. XXII, No 12. 2000, ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Arab WMD Development A common argument is ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> strain on Israel’s freedom of military movement and civilian morale.</span>**__
=="Dehumanizing" PIK== 
===1NC=== 

**We advocate the entirety of the 1AC other than the use of the word “dehumanizing”**

**To discuss oppression as “dehumanizing” only reasserts dominate forms of hierarchy in hidden ways and furthers anthropocentric thought.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adams 94</span>** (Carol, feminist scholar and animal rights theorist. M.Div. from Yale Divinity School, B.A. from Rochester University. Neither Beast nor Man, P. 77 http://books.google.com/books?id=CinU6Vy_sYMC)

It is conventionally said that... __positions animals as lower?__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anthropocentrism allows us to exploit natur – leads to extermination of all life.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Ahkin, 10**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> – </span>(Melanie Ahkin, Monash University, 2010, “Human Centrism, Animist Materialism, and the Critique of Rationalism in Val Plumwood’s Critical Ecological Feminism,” Emergent Australian Philosophers, a peer reviewed journal of philosophy, __<span style="color: blue;">http://www.eap.philosophy-australia.com/archives.html</span>__)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">These</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> five </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">features provide ... of the human centric framework.</span>