=**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Aff</span>**= 

==**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Finders Ain't Keepers 1AC</span>**== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">For much of the early 1970’s, the United States federal government waged a brutal occupation on the Reservation communities of Pine Ridge South Dakota. Kevin McKiernan, a journalist from St. Paul Minnesota was there. An account from his Diary, on April 17, 1973 tells a vivid story. “Food Drop! I scramble away from the floor of the trailer house and run outside. It seems incredible. Three single engine planes flying from the north, dipping low wing to wing over Wounded Knee. Seven silly parachutes float to earth. The aircraft fan out, disappearing over the pine studded hills. They’re gone as quickly as they came. One parachute lands in a field across Manderson Road. Food! What a beautiful sight for sore eyes and hungry bellies. People are flocking from everywhere, gathering up the chutes, ripping the bundles open – fresh carrots, potatoes, rice, chocolate bars, rolling tobacco. And Leaflets bearing the words, “Freedom from Oppression in Indochina” Then all hell breaks loose. There’s sniper fire from “Vultures”, the largest of the federal heliocopters. It’s raking Manderson Road where food’s being carried to the security building for distribution. Bullets are dancing around Florine Hollowhorn’s kids. It’s like a salt-shaker pouring around them. A miracle nobody’s hit. I grab some food and run back to the trailer.” </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.aics.org/WK/wk068.html]])</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Though the American Indian Movement did not succeed it wrestling their land from the yoke of federal oppression – their efforts inform our understanding of emancipatory politics. </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">My Partner and I are resolved – The United States federal government should return all unlawfully acquired land and water to American Indian communities. There is only one priority – the recent history of federal policy is paternalistic and oppressive – we need a new vision.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Ward Churchill, 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader, “I am Indigenist: Notes on the Ideology of the Fourth World”).</span>
Leaving aside questions concerning the validity of various treaties, […] accomplishing positive change in North America.
**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11.5pt;">And, The colonialism of early America is the root cause of wars today—they are extensions of genocidal carnage against native people</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Street, author, March 11, 2004. [“Those Who Deny the Crimes of the Past Reflections on American Racist Atrocity Denial, 1776-2004,” http://thereitis.org/displayarticle242.html] </span>
It is especially important to appreciate the significance […] the means and motive to do so.
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11.5pt;">Indigenous land return sparks global decolonization movements that are critical to averting environmental collapse and extinction. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Tinker 1996</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">George E. Tinker, Iliff School of Technology, 1996 [Defending Mother Earth: Native American Perspectives on Environmental Justice, ed. Jace Weaver, p. 171-72] </span>
My suggestion that we take the recognition of indigenous sovereignty […] the survival of all may depend on it.
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11.5pt;">And don’t believe their lies -- Realism is informed by colonialist views of human nature that depict the savage native as proof of the need for the state. This serves to absolve the state of its role in genocide </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11.5pt;">Hall 99</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Anthony J. Hall, Department of Native American Studies University of Lethbridge, April 15, 1999 [“Ethnic Cleansing of Native North American People,” http://www.akha.org/content/international/ethniccleansingofnorthamericanindigenouspeople.html] </span>
To now read all these years later […] made to seem normal and natural and simply a fact of life.
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">USSR proves – state collapse isn’t synonymous with existential collapse. Reverting to Indian control would alleviate suffering and not cause racism or sexism. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kenis, 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader, “I am Indigenist: Notes on the Ideology of the Fourth World”).</span>
But before I suggest everyone jump off […] the problem rather than becoming part of the solution.

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Contention II. Solvency</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Giving back the land would equate to roughly 1/3 of U.S. territory. It would challenge U.S. imperialism, and invigorate global emancipatory politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kenis, 03 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader. THE NEW FACE OF LIBERATION: </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Indigenous Rebellion, State Repression, and the Reality of the Fourth World).</span>
Indians have by and large indicated […]would mean, “U. S. Out of Indian Country. ”
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Taking the decolonization of North America seriously is the only way to control the state. It is impossible to end oppression without starting in Indian Country. Otherwise, extinction is inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kenis, 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader, “Radioactive Colonization”).</span>
It is worth observing that the ensuing decolonization […] (“What goes around, comes around, ” as Charlie Manson liked to say).
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Giving back the land is key to any genuine project of liberatory politics. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kenis, 03 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader. THE NEW FACE OF LIBERATION: </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Indigenous Rebellion, State Repression, and the Reality of the Fourth World).</span>
It’s time to stop fantasizing and confront […] The question, then, comes down to where to look for a replacement.
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> **We are ethically and legally obligated to give the land back.**</span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia;">Yo’Nas Da Lonewolf-Muhammad</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">in ‘7</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia;">National Director for the Indigenous Nations Alliance-Millions More Movement, accessed 1/12/12, “Broken treaties, broken promises, http://www.finalcall.com/artman/publish/article_3769.shtml)</span>
In mafia movies, there are many messages […] do all that you can to fulfill God’s Promise.