[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
Neg vs. ICW (ISS Aff - Science Diplomacy and Biotech Advantages)
1NC: T-Its, XO, Jackson Vanik, PIC out of launches/monetary support, Case
2NC: Jackson Vanik, PIC
1NR: Case
2NR: Jackson Vanik, PIC, Solvency (CASIS/Squo solves)

=Round 2= 
Aff vs. Alpharetta LP
Same Property rights aff as on our normal wiki, Development and Moon Wars advantage

2NR: T - its/of
=Round 3= 
Neg vs. Damien LO (PACS Aff - Heg and China Advantages)
1NC: Ban Long Range Missiles CP, Jackson Vanik, Psychoanalysis (Heg link), Case
2NC: Psychoanalysis
1NR: Case
2NR: Psychoanalysis, Case
=Round 4= 
Aff vs. Carrollton
Same property rights aff as on our Normal Wiki, development and Moon Wars advantage

2NR: Jackson Vanik, SPS DA, Case
=Round 5= 
Modified Property Rights aff

==1AC Plan== 
The United States federal government should establish lunar property rights by recognizing lunar land claims.

==1AC Advantage 1== 
Advantage 1 – Moon Wars
Moon race is happening – a legal framework for land distribution is required
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While the notion ... will demonstrate.</span>
Absent a property rights regime, conflict is inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Noting the substantive ...</span>opportunity in history<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>
That escalates to nuclear war with Russia and a space arms race
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beljac 8</span> (Marko Beljac, PhD at Monash University, a Foreign Policy In Focus contributor, teaches at the University of Melbourne. He blogs at http://sciencesecurity.livejournal.com, | April 1, 2008, [[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/5113]] | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China has tested ... upon nuclear deterrence.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">War with Russia causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 31, 2009, </span><span class="vitstoryheadline" style="font-size: 8pt;">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama ... 1995 remains in place today. </span>
Independently makes war and miscalc more likely
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 08 </span>[Theresa, author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” continues to write on space and nuclear arms control issues for a number of outside publications, March, “Space Wars”, [[http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=31334623&site=bsi-live]]]

<span class="UnderlineChar">Perhaps of even ...be highly problematic. </span>
Recognizing property rights solves resource conflict
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As stated at the ...</span> harmony and humanitarian rewards<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>
The US can unilaterally recognize land rights – that’s spurs investment and avoids international backlash
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)
The problems with ....<span class="UnderlineChar">agreed-upon international regime."</span>
That spills over globally
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser 11</span> (Allan Wasser, former broadcast journalist at ABC News and CBS News, Chairman of the Executive Committee (CEO) of the National Space Society, member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Advocate of the Space Frontier Foundation, author of numerous articles on the subject of space property rights, most recently in The Explorers Journal, the official magazine of the Explorers Club, Space News, Ad Astra, Space Governance, May 2011, “The Space Settlement Initiative”, [[http://www.spacesettlement.org/]] | Suo)

The United States will ...<span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to undertake alone. </span>**</span>
Land claim recognition is key to open up private investment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bennett 8</span> (Drake Bennett, staff writer for Ideas and Bloomberg Business, May 18, 2008, “If we really want to explore space, maybe we should sell it off to the highest bidders”, [[http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2008/05/18/my_space/]] | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IF THE PAST few ... settlement would be a way of accomplishing that."</span>
Private enterprise is the only peaceful way to develop space – interdependence means countries cooperate
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span> | Suo)</span>

Some<span class="UnderlineChar"> of those ...</span> to appropriate the Moon<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.71</span>

==1AC Advantage 2== 
Observation 2 is Space Research
The plan provides infinite directions for spacefaring companies- jumpstarts the market and puts us back on top
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Apollo landing ...commercialization of space.</span>

The plan doesn’t violate the OST- but uncertainty prevents investment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wall 11</span> (senior writer, space.com http://www.space.com/10621-moon-mining-legal-issues.html Moon Mining Idea Digs Up Lunar Legal Issues)

The good news for ... into the equation."

It’s reverse causal- absent the plan, private space development companies will collapse
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Widegrow 11</span> (Davin Widegrow was born in Johannesburg, South Africa, and immigrated to Los Angeles, CA in December 2001. Widgerow attended the University of California, Berkeley, where he earned a B.A. (cum laude) in Political Science. For three years after college, Widgerow worked at the Los Angeles office of Latham & Watkins LLP as a paralegal assistant. Widgerow graduated from the University of Wisconsin Law School in December 2010. During law school, he worked for the Neighborhood Law Project civil justice clinical program, and interned for Justice David T. Prosser of the Wisconsin Supreme Court. Widgerow also served as a Note and Comment Editor for the //<span style="font-family: Times-Italic,serif;">Wisconsin International Law Journal</span>//, and was a member of the law school’s Moot Court team. Widgerow received the Law School’s 2010 Mathys Award for Excellence in Appellate Advocacy, and the 2011 Mary Kelly Quackenbush Award for Outstanding Student Article in the //<span style="font-family: Times-Italic,serif;">Wisconsin International Law Journal </span>//for this article. BOLDLY GOING WHERE NO REALTOR HAS GONE BEFORE: THE LAW OF OUTER SPACE AND A PROPOSAL FOR A NEW INTERPLANETARY PROPERTY LAW SYSTEM http://hosted.law.wisc.edu/wordpress/wilj/files/2011/10/Widgerow_Final_8.2.11-ISSUE-28-3.pdf)
Indeed, <span class="UnderlineChar">private sector ... </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the Apollo era.</span>

That’s key to space experiments in GM food production and causes the next industrial revolution
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An immediate and ... molecular electronics. </span>

GM development on the ground is inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ahlstrom 8</span> (Dick Ahlstrom, Science Editor at Foundation for Biology Awareness and Education, 7/18/08 “Use of GM foods Inevitable in EU- Expert”)
<span class="UnderlineChar">IT IS inevitable... to those using [ GM]."</span>


But space development is comparatively better- only commercial production solves
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kelly M. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zullo</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D., Georgetown University Law Center, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 90 Geo. L.J. 2413</span>

The microgravity environment ... of the microgravity environment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Try or die – biotech’s failure to convert to GM food ensures human extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Altman 99</span> (Faculty @ Otto Warburg Center for Ag Biotech, <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.ejbiotechnology.info/content/vol2/issue2/full/1/index.html]]</span>)</span>

__Food production,__ for both ... __the **"evergreen revolution****".**__
But current land based efforts fail – kills genetic base and the ecosystem
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McGee citing UN 8</span> (Tim McGee, University of California, Santa Barbara's BioMolecular Science and Engineering Program, citing the UN International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD), 2008 “The World Needs a Farming Revolution! Declares U.N. Report” http://www.treehugger.com/green-food/the-world-needs-a-farming-revolution-declares-un-report.html)

Many of the challenges ....<span class="UnderlineChar">current environmental change</span>."

Each new species extinction risks planetary extinction – it’s try or die for the aff
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diner 94</span> (MAJOR DAVID N. DINER, Judge Advocate General's Corps, United States Army, Military Law Review Winter 1994143 Mil. L. Rev. 161)
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Biologically diverse ... </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to the abyss</span>**</span>.</span></span>

Loss of genetic diversity will cause global extinction – outweighs warming and nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fowler and Mooney 90</span> **(Senior Officer at UN Food and Agriculture Organization; and Staff Member at Rural**
**Advancement Fund International** [Cary and Pat, Shattering: food, politics, and the loss of genetic diversity, p. ix])

While many may ...<span class="UnderlineChar">survival more precarious. </span>

Space isolation prevents spillover to the Earth – plan is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Permanent </span>Updated<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2012</span> (Projects to Employ Resources of the Moon and Asteroids Near Earth in the Near Term; Synthetic Biology)
"__Synthetic biology" is ...____Earth's natural environment.__

Economic decline causes war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report e....more </span><span class="UnderlineChar">dog-eat-dog world. </span>

Experts and history disprove your impact takeouts
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schrage ‘9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael J. Green and Steven P., Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P. Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a Former Senior Official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, //It's not just the economy//, Available Online @ the Asian Times)</span>

Facing the worst economic ,,, of the critical challenges we face.
.

The combination of isolationism and diversion is the most deadly- leads to world war three
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ockham Research ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Independent Equity Research Provider based in Atlanta Georgia, Economic Distress and Geopolitical Risks, November 18th, Accessed Online @ Seeking Alpha)</span>

The economic turmoil ...race, country, ideology, etc.
Government normalcy means the economy will inevitably collapse. Only a shift away from stagnation solves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quinn 4/2</span> (James Quinn is a senior director of strategic planning for a major university. James has held financial positions with a retailer, homebuilder and university in his 22-year career. Those positions included treasurer, controller, and head of strategic planning. He is married with three boys and is writing these articles because he cares about their future. He earned a BS in accounting from Drexel University and an MBA from Villanova University. He is a certified public accountant and a certified cash manager. **<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">The Great Depression II, You Ain’t Seen Nothing Yet </span>**
http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article33917.html)
<span class="UnderlineChar">Watching pompous politicians, ... somehow are able to convince themselves these facts as normal</span>:


=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 
====Plan Text and Moon Wars the same as Round 5==== 
==== ==== 
====New Advantage - IPR==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">The Moon Treaty is back with a vengeance—lack of U.S. challenges give it strength in international law—decimates private property rights in space </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Listner 12</span>—Michael is a space law attorney with a focus on counseling organizations on issues relating to domestic and international space law and policy and provides consultations on the same. Michael is the Legal and Policy Editor for Space Safety Magazine and a Senior Contributor to DefensePolicy.Org. The Moon Treaty: it isn’t dead yet http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2047/1

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The rationale behind discussing legal challenges, no matter how ludicrous they may seem, ….</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">more difficult to overcome than anyone thought.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">The private sector is waiting to gain a foothold in space—but Moon Treaty ambiguities prevent investment </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Widegrow 11</span>—Davin Widegrow, BA UC Berkeley, JD, University of Wisconisn,, BOLDLY GOING WHERE NO REALTOR HAS GONE BEFORE: THE LAW OF OUTER SPACE AND A PROPOSAL FOR A NEW INTERPLANETARY PROPERTY LAW SYSTEM, http://hosted.law.wisc.edu/wordpress/wilj/files/2011/10/Widgerow_Final_8.2.11-ISSUE-28-3.pdf

B. THE MOON AGREEMENT OF 1979 The Agreement Governing the Activities of States on
AND
apprehensive of the ambiguities and non-possessory declarations of space law.95

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Only U.S. domestic space policy can send a __global signal__ to diminish res communis and the Moon Treaty precedent </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Listner 5</span>—Michael is a space law attorney with a focus on counseling organizations on issues relating to domestic and international space law and policy and provides consultations on the same. Michael is the Legal and Policy Editor for Space Safety Magazine and a Senior Contributor to DefensePolicy.Org It’s time to rethink international space law http://www.thespacereview.com/article/381/1


The res communis doctrine resounds most prominently when dealing with property ownership rights in outer
AND
res communis doctrine has slowly crept into the realm of accepted international law.
It is worth mentioning that at the time of the ratification of the Moon Treaty
AND
or …. that goal is now.


<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Congress key—courts are waiting for a signal on space patent law </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quinn 8—</span>Adam G., J.D./M.B.A. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,”//Minnesota Journal of International Law,// Summer

Because the drafters of the Outer Space Treaty created ambiguities within the text that have
AND
making it an insufficient base to develop a substantive set of space laws.



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">The Moon Treaty destroys intellectual property rights in space—requires developed countries to transfer resources and privately-developed tech </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Listner 11</span> (Michael is a space law attorney with a focus on counseling organizations on issues relating to domestic and international space law and policy and provides consultations on the same. Michael is the Legal and Policy Editor for Space Safety Magazine and a Senior Contributor to DefensePolicy.Org “The Moon Treaty: failed international law or waiting in the shadows?”
http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1954/1

The Moon Treaty is the fourth child of the Outer Space Treaty. It was
AND
extraterrestrial real property and resources but to intellectual property rights as well.3

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">That makes any terrestrial IPR regime impossible</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brisibe 6</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">—Tare, PhD and Legal Services and International Cooperation Head at the Universtity Of Mississippi School of Law, JOURNAL OF SPACE Law, “Outer Space Activities and Intellectual Property Protection in Nigeria” Volume 32, No. 2, Winter 2006, pg online </span>
It has been argued that the simultaneously national and international nature of intellectual property protection
AND
The question falls outside the scope of this article and is not addressed.

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Lack of IPR regime means no commercial development of stem cells</span>
Miller 3—4 of 88 DOCUMENTS Copyright (c) 2003 Albany Law Journal
AND
for her editorial feedback and Karah Herdman for her support and friendship. LEXIS

Although the first shot has not been fired, legal soldiers may be on the
AND
on a careful analysis of factors peculiar to the burgeoning stem cell industry.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Necessary to protect ourselves from genetic warfare</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walker 2/5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Walker, assistant professor at New Mexico State University and holds the Richard L. Hedden Chair of Advanced Philosophical Studies, 2/5/09, “Ship of Fools: Why Transhumanism is the Best Bet to Prevent the Extinction of Civilization”, http://www.metanexus.net/magazine/tabid/68/id/10682/Default.aspx)</span>

Option: relinquishment. Starting with relinquishment, let us think first about what it
AND
plan goes, it is missing just one thing: a concrete plan.

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hartmann 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thom Hartmann, award-winning, best-selling author of over a dozen books, “The Genetically Modified Bomb”, http://www.commondreams.org/views03/0910-15.htm)</span>

Imagine a bomb that only kills Caucasians with red hair. Or short people.
AND
transform biological warfare from the realm of terror to a politically useful tool."

Microgravity development gets rid of all the bad parts of stem cells and makes them a feasible technology – 168 times more efficient
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Olsen 5</span> (Stefanie Olsen, staff writer for CNET News, 8/18/5 “Microgravity tech could sway stem cell debate” [[http://news.cnet.com/Microgravity-tech-could-sway-stem-cell-debate/2100-1008_3-5838520.html]])

Microgravity technology developed by NASA can multiply stem cells from a newborn's blood in large
AND
bioreactors can increase the stem cell count 168-fold, McGuckin said.




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]