[[toc]]
Contact us
Jacob - jacobhegna@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
===Contention 1 Inherency=== 
**Congress is avoiding a nuclear issue**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">4-Traders.com, September 12, 2012.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.4-traders.com/news/U-S-Senate-Committee-on-Energy-and-Natural-Resour-Sen-Murkowski-We-Need-to-Act-Soon-on-Nuclear--15194937/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, today ...</span> has begun.

**Nuclear waste is a threat now: A NUN broke into a nuclear facility with WEAPONS GRADE URANIUM**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ABC ‘12</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Jennifer Abbey, Aug. 2, 2012 “Nun, 82, Allegedly Splashed Human Blood on Nuke Plant” http://abcnews.go.com/Blotter/nun-82-allegedly-splashed-human-blood-nuke-plant/story?id=16914080</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Two men ... the Bible.</span>



**Plan- The United States federal government should invest in the transportation infrastructure required to build a temporary interim storage facility in order to facilitate the transportation of nuclear waste to a final location.**


===Advantage 1- Terrorism=== 
**Current U.S. waste storage practices are overloaded – they are extremely dangerous and susceptible to terrorist attacks.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ananda</span> 3/27/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span> (Rady, “US stores spent nuclear fuel rods at 4 times pool capacity”) MFR
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">US stores ... its government protectors.</span>



**Continuation of worldwide reprocessing results in __nuclear proliferation__, __collapse of the NPT__, __nuclear terrorism__, and __nuclear accidents__—effective storage is key to solve.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">UCS 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 (Union of Concerned Scientists, “Nuclear Reprocessing: Dangerous, Dirty, and Expensive” http://www.ucsusa.org/nuclear_power/nuclear_power_risk/nuclear_proliferation_and_terrorism/nuclear-reprocessing.html) MFR </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Reprocessing is...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> geological repository. </span>


**Nuclear terrorists will make a move by 2013 – most qualified evidence**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zaitchik</span> 12/16/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span> (Alexander, staffwriter. “Experts Predict a Possible Terrorist Strike with a Nuke in the US by 2013 -- What Can We Do to Stop It?” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.alternet.org/world/113115/experts_predict_a_possible_terrorist_strike_with_a_nuke_by_2013_--_what_can_we_do_to_stop_it/?page=entire]]</span>) MFR
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>Megaterror Attack ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to, Russia.</span>

**Inability to understand motivations of terrorism means probability is __100%__—it’s impossible to quantify malevolence.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alvarez Et Al 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(*Robert, a Senior Scholar at IPS, where he is currently focused on nuclear disarmament, environmental, and energy policies, served as a Senior Policy Advisor to the Secretary and Deputy Assistant Secretary for National Security and the Environment. *Jan Beyea, PhD, earth science and environmental studies *Klaus Janberg, *Jungmin Kang, *Ed Lyman, *Allison Macfarlane, *Gordon Thompson, *Frank N. von Hippel, PhD Princeton University. “Reducing the Hazards from Stored Spent Power-Reactor Fuel in the United States” Science and Global Security, 11:1–51, 2003 www.irss-usa.org/pages/documents/11_1Alvarez.pdf) MFR </span>
A variety ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and design. </span>




**And the possibility of nuclear plant terrorism would result in __eco-calamity__—it’s an __existential risk__.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alexei 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Turchin, commentator on Nuclear Power and Terrorism. “Worst Case Scenario of Nuclear Accidents - human extinction” [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/52440799/Worst-Case-Scenario-of-Nuclear-Accidents-human-extinction]]) MFR </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The explosion ... further </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">extinction</span>

**Attack during a recession ensures lash-out and retaliation.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morgan 1</span>
Nicole Schwartz-Morgan, Assistant Professor of Politics and Economics at Royal Military College of Canada, 10-10-2001, “Wild Globalization and Terrorism,” http://www.wfs.org/mmmorgan.htm
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The terrorist ... or terrorists.</span>

**And attacks will snowball**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ferguson and Potter ‘5 </span>
Charles D. Ferguson, Science and Technology Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and an Adjunct Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, William C. Potter is Institute Professor and Director of the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, The Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism, 2005, pg. 29-30
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The lack ... erode considerably. </span>




===Advantage 2- Prolif=== 
**Prolif is a real threat, and only US leadership solves**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">India.com ‘12</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">August 30, 2012 – “Real threat of proliferation of nuclear weapons“http://zeenews.india.com/news/world/real-threat-of-proliferation-of-nuclear-weapons_796602.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tampa: Mitt Romney, ...</span> America<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he said.</span>

**Global Nuclear use will inevitably increase—the question is whether the U.S. can take the lead on nonproliferation.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rowley 8</span> (Anthony, The Business Times Singapore, “US official sees global push towards nuke power,” 5/23, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A MASSIVE ... can be dealt with.</span>




**A successful waste disposal system __sustains U.S. nuclear leadership__ and enables __effective nonproliferation initiatives__—other countries will let the U.S. handle their spent fuel.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bengelsdorf 7</span> — Harold Bengelsdorf, consultant and former director of both key State and Energy Department offices that are concerned with international nuclear and nonproliferation affairs, 07 [“THE U.S. DOMESTIC CIVIL NUCLEAR INFRASTRUCTURE AND U.S. NONPROLIFERATION POLICY”, White Paper prepared for the American Council on Global Nuclear Competitiveness May, http://www.nuclearcompetitiveness.org/images/COUNCIL_WHITE_PAPER_Final.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Importance of ...</span> facilities to other countries.


**MAD and Deterrence theory fail in a world of horizontal proliferation – stress and miscalc means we will bury nations.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Utgoff 2</span> — Victor A. Utgoff, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analysis, Survival Vol 44 No 2 Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions, p. 87-90 02
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">History and human ... even whole nations.</span>


**NPT credibility is essential to prevent __runaway proliferation__.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dunn 9</span> [Lewis A. Dunn, Senior vice president of Science Applications International Corp, Former assistant director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Ambassador for the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in the Reagan Administration, “THE NPT: Assessing the Past, Building the Future,” Nonproliferation Review, Vol. 16 No. 2, July 2009, [[http://cns.miis.edu/npr/pdfs/npr_16-2_dunn.pdf]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Metric: Does NPT ... after NPT breakout. </span>




**Proliferation creates multiple scenarios for nuclear war.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Below 8</span> — Below, Masters Thesis for School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, ’08 [Tim D.Q., Wing Commander, RAF; MA in Defence Studies, King’s College London; “Options for US nuclear disarmament: exemplary leadership or extraordinary lunacy?,” June 2008, Thesis for School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Proliferation. Roger Molander, of RAND Corporation, asserts that “in the near future, a large number of countries are each going to develop a small number of nuclear weapons.”50 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Union of ...</span> //their opponents//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.54</span>

**Proliferation causes rapid climate change - extinction**
**Beyond Nuclear 8** – (“Nuclear Power and the Lethal Link to Nuclear Weapons” Beyond Nuclear, 4/17/08. http://beyondnuclear.squarespace.com/storage/BN_Weapons_Link_fact_sheet_April_22.pdf)//FK

Nuclear Proliferation ... know it. 21



===Advantage 3 – Nuclear Safety=== 
**The biggest nuclear waste disaster in US history just happened questioning the stability of existing sites**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Huntington News, August 25, 2012.</span>
http://www.huntingtonnews.net/41803
As part of ... the surrounding soil<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Independent from reprocessing technology, current nuclear facilities are __highly susceptible__ to __nuclear accidents__ due to __overstoring of spent fuel__—it could happen //any time//.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alvarez Et Al 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(*Robert, a Senior Scholar at IPS, where he is currently focused on nuclear disarmament, environmental, and energy policies, served as a Senior Policy Advisor to the Secretary and Deputy Assistant Secretary for National Security and the Environment. *Jan Beyea, PhD, earth science and environmental studies *Klaus Janberg, *Jungmin Kang, *Ed Lyman, *Allison Macfarlane, *Gordon Thompson, *Frank N. von Hippel, PhD Princeton University. “Reducing the Hazards from Stored Spent Power-Reactor Fuel in the United States” Science and Global Security, 11:1–51, 2003 www.irss-usa.org/pages/documents/11_1Alvarez.pdf) MFR </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Because of the ... are also discussed.</span>


**Interim storage is necessary to avoid Chernobyl-like disasters.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USA Today, January 26, 2012.</span>
[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/story/2012-01-26/replace-nevada-yucca-mountain-nuclear-waste-dump/52808930/1]]
The [[http://content.usatoday.com/topics/topic/Places,+Geography/Countries/United+States|United States]] should ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," the groups said.</span>


**Nuclear Accidents can wipe out half the population**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alvarez Et Al 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(*Robert, a Senior Scholar at IPS, where he is currently focused on nuclear disarmament, environmental, and energy policies, served as a Senior Policy Advisor to the Secretary and Deputy Assistant Secretary for National Security and the Environment. *Jan Beyea, PhD, earth science and environmental studies *Klaus Janberg, *Jungmin Kang, *Ed Lyman, *Allison Macfarlane, *Gordon Thompson, *Frank N. von Hippel, PhD Princeton University. “Reducing the Hazards from Stored Spent Power-Reactor Fuel in the United States” Science and Global Security, 11:1–51, 2003 www.irss-usa.org/pages/documents/11_1Alvarez.pdf) MFR </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although a number ... of lower contamination.17</span>


**We have a moral and ethical obligation to do something about our spent fuel to avoid another Chernobyl.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hladky 12</span>
Gregory B. Hladky, staff writer at CT.com “How much spent nuclear fuel is there in Connecticut?”, [[http://www.ct.com/news/advocates/nm-ht28ncnuclearwaste-20120703,0,7743743.story]], July 3rd, 2012.
If you were ... hazardous nuclear material."<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>
===Contention 2- Solvency=== 

**Realism is the //__most accurate__// theory of international relations – minor counter-examples don’t disprove the overarching predictive nature of anarchic sovereign states***
-it doesn’t preclude alliance-building
-it accurately explains economic leadership and some components of liberalism
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Amin et al 11 </span>– PhD Candidate @ Institute of International Studies, in People’s Republic of China
Musarat, Rizwan Naseer, PhD Candidate @ Institute of International Studies, in People’s Republic of China, Tilak Ishtiaq, MA in IR @ University of Sargodha, Pakistan, “Realism - Dominating Theory in International Relations: An analysis,” Berkeley Journal of Social Sciences, Vol. 1, No. 7
Realism is sometimes ...<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> in international relations.</span>

**Creating interim sites for nuclear waste is key to long term storage planning**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bloomberg News, June 27, 2012.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=newsarchive&sid=apw8uJ1e.FKY&refer=us</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Senate Republicans offered ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> nuclear waste.'' </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>


**The US needs to create interim storage facilities to guarantee safety – expert commission**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CNET 11</span>
Martin LaMonica, Staff writer for CNET, “MIT recommends interim storage for nuclear waste”, [[http://news.cnet.com/8301-11128_3-20057480-54.html]] 4/26/11
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Regardless of whether ... the nuclear industry</span>


**Creating a temporary location for nuclear waste resolves the legal issues facing storage**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Platts News, September 10, 2012.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> http://www.platts.com/RSSFeedDetailedNews/RSSFeed/ElectricPower/6618678</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The national body ...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of the fee.</span>


**Only the plan is a __concise__ and __workable__ approach to the nuclear waste issue—it creates an international consensus to follow the U.S. over reprocessing technologies.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lyman 10</span> (Edwin S., Senior Staff Scientist Union of Concerned Scientists “LIMITING FUTURE PROLIFERATION AND SECURITY RISKS” Presentation to the Blue Ribbon Commission on America‟s Nuclear Future Reactor and Fuel Cycle Technology Subcommittee October 12, 2010, Washington, DC) MFR
Elimination of ... <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">more effectively</span>

**Nuclear panel believes finding a host for interim storage is best option**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USA Today, January 26, 2012.</span>
[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/story/2012-01-26/replace-nevada-yucca-mountain-nuclear-waste-dump/52808930/1]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The [[http://content.usatoday.com/topics/topic/Places,+Geography/Countries/United+States|United States]] should ..." the groups said.</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]