[[toc]]
=Aff= 


==1AC- CFLs== 

==1AC- Chattahoochee- Milton== 

<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should invest all necessary resources to establish a hydrogen fueling station network in the United States.</span>
===Contention One: Inherency=== 
**US is the hydrogen leader now, but 2012 cuts will stop this**
Auto Observers 11 (AutoObserver 11, Fuel-Cell Backers Criticize DOE Budget Cuts, 2/22/11) [[http://www.autoobserver.com/2011/02/fuel-cell-backers-criticize-doe-budget-cuts.html]]


**Hydrogen cars are coming now but they won’t be commercially viable without fueling station infrastructure**
Housley 10(Adam Housley Staff Writer, Fox News, Can the Hydrogen Highway Exist? , June 15, 2010)http://liveshots.blogs.foxnews.com/2010/06/15/can-the-hydrogen-highway-exist/
**It’s a chicken and egg problem – the only way hydrogen cars will catch on is with more fueling stations**
Kanter 6-21 (Evelyn Kanter Green Car Examiner More filling stations for hydrogen, fuel cell vehicles June 21, 2012) [[http://www.examiner.com/article/more-filling-stations-for-hydrogen-fuel-cell-vehicles]]


===Contention 2: Oil Dependence=== 
**A transition away from oil is inevitable. Hydrogen is key to smooth the transition – no other source can fill the gap**
Zerta et al 08(Martin Zerta winner of Vaillant award for fuel cell research, Munich College, researcher atLudwig-Bölkow-Systemtechnik GmbH), Patrick Schmidt, (Professor Macalester College, Dipl. Ing. M.S.), Christoph Stiller, (M.S Dipl. –Ing. FH Versorgungstechnik), Hubert Landinger, (M.S. University Karlsruhe), Ludwig-Bölkow-Systemtechnik GmbH “Alternative World Energy Outlook (AWEO) and the role of hydrogen in a changing energy landscape,” (2008) ScienceDirect

Scenario 1 economy
**Oil dependence exposes the US to high oil prices—this hurts the economy via consumers and businesses**
Sandalow 07 (David Sandalow, Energy and Environment Scholar at the Brookings Institution, “ENDING OIL DEPENDENCE,” 1/22/07, http://www.brookings.edu/views/papers/fellows/sandalow20070122.pdf)


**High oil prices hurt the US and global economies**
Financial Times 10 (Financial Times, “The Price of Oil,” Fall 2010, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/374e5fdc-436f-11df-833f-00144feab49a.html]], Vikram :3)

Scenario 2- Africa
**U.S. oil dependence causes interventionalism in African countries**
**Raphael and stokes in 2011** (Globalizing West African oil: US ‘energy security’ and the global Economy SAM RAPHAEL AND DOUG STOKES 2011 International Affairs © 2011 The Royal Institute of International Affairs. Published by Blackwell Publishing [[http://www.chathamhouse.org/sites/default/files/87_4stokesraphael.pdf]])
**African oil policies create regimes**
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">Jenson and wantchekon 07 ([[http://faculty.washington.edu/latsch/SISAF444_JensenWantchekon.pdf]], </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nathan Jensen and Leonard Wantchekon,Resource Wealth and Political Regimes in Africa)</span>

**These Governments commit genocide- Nigeria proves**
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nwobu 12</span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>Genocide: The Bloody Price Of Nigeria’s Corruption
<span style="color: #464646;">June 12, 2012 - 20:33- Genocide, Bloody price of NigeriaPosted by siteadmin Lawrence Chinedu Nwobu </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://saharareporters.com/article/genocide-bloody-price-nigeria%E2%80%99s-corruption]])</span>
**GENOCIDE OUTWEIGHS ALL IMPACTS**
B. Harff-Gur, Northwestern, HUMANITARIAN INTERVENTION AS A REMEDY FOR GENOCIDE,1981, p. 40

Scenario 3 is relations
**Oil dependence wrecks International cooperation and relations with china, Russia, India, and the EU**
[[http://mondoweiss.net/author/deepak-tripathi|Deepak Tripathi]] 1-12 ([[http://mondoweiss.net/2012/01/the-war-between-the-useu-and-chinaindia-to-control-world-energy-resources-is-being-fought-in-iran.html]] Battle between the US/EU and China/India to control world energy resources )

Scenario 4 terrorism
**US oil dependence drives up the price of oil—this literally FUNDS the hands of hostile nations and terrorist-sponsoring states**
Powers 10<span class="cite"> (</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jonathan Powers, COO at Truman National Security Project, Oil addiction: Fueling our Enemies, Truman National Security Project, Feb 17, pg. 3-4)</span>

Scenario 5- Poverty
**US action is key to successful transitions. Other countries will follow US action**
Roberts, <span style="font-size: 14pt;">2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Paul Roberts, 2004, Winner of New York Public Library Helen Bernstein Book Award for Excellence in Journalism, published an in-depth article on peak oil for National Geographic June 2008, “The End of Oil,” p. 15</span>

**A hydrogen economy will stop warming and eliminate world poverty**
Rifkin 02 (Jeremy Rifkin Advisor of the EU, Author of "The Hydrogen Economy: The Creation of the World Wide Energy Web and the Redistribution of Power on Earth" A Hydrogen EconomyThe Power to Change the World September 2, 2002 in the Los Angeles Times) [[http://articles.latimes.com/2002/sep/02/opinion/oe-rifkin2]]

===Contention 3: Global Warming=== 
**Global warming anthropogenic – 98% of scientists agree**
**Clynes, editor, June 21, 2012**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Tom, __Popsci__ “The Battle Over Climate Science”, [[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2012-06/battle-over-climate-change?single-page-view=true]]) </span>

**Warming is the only existential risk**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deibel ’07</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Prof IR @ National War College (Terry, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>

**Even without the existential risk- Increase temps alone kill hundreds of thousands---we don’t have to win the rate debate**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zabarenko , Environmental Correspondent, 2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[By Deborah Zabarenko, Environmental Correspondent. “150,000 more US heat deaths projected by 2100.” <http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/05/23/us-climate-heat-deaths-idUSBRE84M1GQ20120523?feedType=RSS&feedName=everything&virtualBrandChannel=11563> WASHINGTON | Wed May 23, 2012 5:11pm EDT accessed 06272012.] NWW</span>

**Hydrogen cars will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by a billion tons- Solves warming**
Paul <span class="Author-Date">T</span>hompson, 200<span class="Author-Date">9</span>
Thompson, Paul. Evening Standard [London (UK)] 16 Sep 2009 “Obama's greener cars 'will reduce CO2 by 1 bn tons”

===Contention 4: solvency=== 
**Hydrogen is necessary to make other renewables viable – Causes a transition of other viable fuels**
Lokey 06 (Elizabeth Lokey, Ph.D. Student in Environmental Studies, The University of Colorado, A Critical Review of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 March 23 2006) ScienceDirect

**Hydrogen is most efficient – fueling station key to transition**
Crabtree et al 04(George W. Crabtree Argonne National Laboratory, Illinois, Mildred S. Dresselhaus Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, and Michelle V. Buchanan Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Tennessee, The Hydrogen Economy, 12/04
[[http://saeta.physics.hmc.edu/courses/p80/papers/hydrogen/PhysToday%20Hydrogen%20041239.pdf]]

**Government leadership key – the market won’t invest in hydrogen on its own**
NRC 04 (National Research Council, Committee on Alternatives and Strategies for Future Hydrogen Production and Use, National Academy of Engineering ,"The Hydrogen Economy: Opportunities, Costs, Barriers, and R&D Needs, National Academy of Engineering (NAE) Board on Energy and Environmental Systems (BEES), 2004 (119)


==Harvard 1AC== 

<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should invest all necessary resources to establish a hydrogen fueling station network in the United States.</span>
==Inherency== 
Same as Milton
==Contention 2 is Silence== 
The fossil fuel web of lies is causing us to deny our obligation to act.
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown ’10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Donald A. Brown, Associate Professor, Environmental Ethics, Science, and Law at Penn State University, Are Fossil Fuel Industry Commercials Encouraging Americans to Engage In Unethical Climate Change Causing Behavior?, September 2, 2010,</span>[[http://rockblogs.psu.edu/climate/2010/09/do-current-fossil-fuel-industry-commercials-encourage-americans-to-engage-in|__http://rockblogs.psu.edu/climate/2010/09/do-current-fossil-fuel-industry-commercials-encourage-americans-to-engage-in-unethical-behavior-on-c.html__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
Yet there is no evidence .... make a ruckus at public meetings.
===Poverty=== 
Lack of access to energy is perpetuating poverty around the world
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Di Dio ‘9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Debora, lead author, Energy Poverty: The Hidden Energy Crisis, Practical Action, Agadir, 2009 international conference on the integration of sustainable agriculture and rural development in the context of climate change, the energy crisis and food insecurity,</span>[[http://www.digitaluniverse.net/Agadir_Conference_2009/articles/view/140191/|__http://www.digitaluniverse.net/Agadir_Conference_2009/articles/view/140191/__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
The governments and people... <span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="line-height: 1.5;"> expected to grow</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;"> commensurately.</span>

And- It’s hell for these people
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Driessen 6 –</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> senior policy advisor for the Congress of Racial Equality and Committee For A Constructive Tomorrow (CFACT), and author of//Eco-Imperialism: Green power and Black death//</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, “Nuclear to the rescue”, </span>[[http://www.maninnature.com/Energy/Nuclear/Nuclear1a.html|__http://www.maninnature.com/Energy/Nuclear/Nuclear1a.html__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, dml) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No wonder.... </span> forever dependent on foreign aid.
Poverty is the aprior issue
Fathi <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aburafia</span>, literary critic and is currently staff at UN New York, AL-AHRAM Weekly December 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span> http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2006/824/sc42.htm
Fighting Poverty: A matter of ... element of the poverty eradication process<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 10.5pt;">.</span>

Ongoing global poverty outweighs nuclear war- only our ev is comparative.
Spina 2k <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Stephanie Urso, Ph.D. candidate in social/personality psychology at the Graduate School of the City University of New York, Smoke and Mirrors: The Hidden Context of Violence in Schools and Society, p. 201)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This sad fact ... throughout the world</span>.

===Nigeria=== 

Oil policies prop up destructive tendencies that destroy the countries that are cursed with oil
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">OCI ’11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Oil Change International campaigns to expose the true costs of fossil fuels and facilitate the coming transition towards clean energy. We are dedicated to identifying and overcoming barriers to that transition, 2011, </span>[[http://priceofoil.org/thepriceofoil/human-rights/|__http://priceofoil.org/thepriceofoil/human-rights/__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
There is an alarming ...managed resource extraction.


This is particularly true for Nigeria
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">OCI ’11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Oil Change International campaigns to expose the true costs of fossil fuels and facilitate the coming transition towards clean energy. We are dedicated to identifying and overcoming barriers to that transition, 2011, </span>[[http://priceofoil.org/thepriceofoil/human-rights/|__http://priceofoil.org/thepriceofoil/human-rights/__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
In 1995, the hanging of Ken Saro-Wiwa ... remain convicted of a crime they did not commit.

Oil giants are destroying Nigeria. Refusing to speak up only enhances the idealism of the other and makes the genocide justified
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">Keating 12 </span>**(Micheal. Michael Keating is a lecturer in international relations at the McCormack School of Policy and Global Studies, University of Massachusetts, Boston. He is also a development consultant with a particular interest in west Africa, where he has worked for almost a decade. Nigeria's oil disasters are met by silence, Jan. 9 2012; [[@http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/jan/09/nigeria-oil-disaster-silence]])

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">In 2010 the world watched in horror ...</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9.5pt; line-height: 1.5;"> __had very little to say.__</span>**

Genocide is an ultimate obligation.
Rice 05
(Susan Rice, Brookings Institute, WHY DARFUR CAN’T BE LEFT TO AFRICA, August 7, 2005, [[http://www.brookings.org/views/articles/rice/20050807.htm]])

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Never is the international ... feathers it ruffles</span>

GENOCIDE OUTWEIGHS ALL IMPACTS
B. Harff-Gur, Northwestern, HUMANITARIAN INTERVENTION AS A REMEDY FOR GENOCIDE,1981, p. 40
One of the most e..., genocide is a universalconcern
==Contention 3 is Solvency== 
Same as Milton

==Contention 4 is Voice== 

The 1ac is more than just a repeated structure. Life and death are only reproduced knowledge. We create a new form of discourse not about life or death, but in fact to speak up to prove that there are things worse than death. And our discourse is what changes it.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Doty, ‘96</span>
(Arizona State Assistant Political Science Professor, Imperial Encounter, pp. 5-6)
__This study begins ...__ __and economic power.__

<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Status quo policies stigmas the weak and forces them into our definitions of what their lives mean. When Josh and I affirm their true value, it allows them to access their own ontology and determine their own lives- This is the aprior issue and comes before anything else</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dillon 1999</span> [Michael, “The Scandal of the Refugee: Some Reflections on the ‘Inter’ of International Relations and Continental Thought,” in //Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics//, eds. David Campbell and Michael Shapiro (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1999) pg. 97-99]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Heidegger-himself an especially .... reappraisal of modern political thought.</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">No, suffering’s not inevitable and yes, we affirm life when we help those in need. Arguments for survival or for suffering are only selfish nihilism. We break this by yelling no! in the face of overwhelming odds</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eisenberg, 2005</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Daniel, Medical Doctor, Department of Radiology at the Albert Einstein Medical Center, “The Death of Terry Schiavo: An Epilogue”, 4/10, http://www.aish.com/societyWork/society/The_Death_of_Terri_Schiavo_An_Epilogue.asp)</span>

And so, with help of the ... __some lives just don't matter.__
Finally, impacts based on clinging to survival reproduces violence and makes the worst atrocities possible
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Callahan</span>, institute of Society and Ethics, 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">73</span> (Daniel, “The Tyranny of Survival”, p. 91-3)

The value of survival could ... victory to end all Pyrrhic victories.

=Neg= 

**Distribution**
**T- 1 (3.3%)**
**DA& case- 9 (30%)**
**DA & CP- 2 (6.6%)**
**K- 18 (60%)**
==Strats== 
===Wake=== 
**Rd. 1 v Pittsburgh Central Catholic ??**

**1AC- Freight Rail (econ, competitiveness)**
**1NC- Absurdity/ Camus K, Spending disad, tics, Private cp, case D**
**Block- Absurdity, Politics**
**2NR- Absurdity/ Camus**

**Rd. 3 v Chamblee AP**

**1AC-HAZMAT (NAFTA, spills, terrorism)**
**1NC- Extra-T, NexGen trade-off, elections, waste burial cp, Absurdity, Case D**
**Block- K, Trade-off da**
**2NR- Absurdity**

**Rd. 6 v John's creek AX**

**1AC- Nextgen (Oil prices, Warming)**
**1NC- Spending disad, politics disad, privatization cp, Absurdity, Case d, oil price-russia turn**
**Block- K, politics, case turns, cp**
**2NR- Absurdity**

===Griffen=== 
**Rd 1 V Marist A**

**1AC- Nextgen (econ, air pollution)**
**1NC- GA disad, elections, spending, privates cp, absurdity K, case**
**Block- K, elections, spending, case**
**2NR- K**

**Rd 4 V Hoco MP**

**1AC- Port security (Terrorism)**
**1NC- T- underlying structures, elections, trade disad, adv cp, absurdity****, case**
**Block- K, cp, elections, case**
**2NR- K**

===Hoochee=== 
**Rd 1 v Alpharetta NS**

**1AC- NextGen (Econ, warming)**
**1NC- GA disad, elections, spending, privates cp, absurdity, Case turns (heg bad, inflation turns economy)**
**Block- K, cp, elections, case turns**
**2NR- K**

**Rd 3 V Northview DK**

**1AC- NextGen (Aviation, airpower)**
**1NC- GA disad, elections da, spending da, privates cp, HARM adv cp (it was based off a 1ac author), absurdity, case D**
**Block- K, Harm, GA da, elections, case**
**2NR****- absurdity**

**Rd 6 V Alpharetta BM**

**1AC- Icebreakers (Arctic, Antarctic treaty)**
**1NC- T-vehicles, T- US, LOST cp, Elections, Russia relations Da, Absurdity, Case D**
**Block- K, Russia, case, T- US**
**2NR- Absurdity, condo D**

===**John's creek**=== 
**Rd 2 V Alpharetta MP**

**1AC- Icebreakers (arctic, Antarctic treaty)**
**1NC- T-vehicles, T-US, Artic/antartic cp, spending, russia relations da, absurdity K, case D**
**Block- K, cp, elections, spending, case**
**2NR- K**

**Rd 4 V Hooch GM**

**1AC- Port security (terrorism, human trafficking)**
**1NC- Spending, elections, Adv cp, Absurdity K, case D**
**Block- K, spending, cp, elections**
**2NR- spending, case**

===**Hoco**=== 
**Rd 1 V Hoco CR**

**1AC- Some weird aff about human transportation pipelines like the ones in futurama (warming, econ)**
**1NC- Spending, Buy american, Elections, privates cp, absurdity, case**
**Block- K, Buy Murica, Elections, spending**
**2NR- Spending, Buy america, elections**

**Rd 4 V cairo AD**

**1AC- Bicycles (warming, econ, health)**
**1NC- Spending, Buy american, elections, states cp, absurdity, ableism, case**
**Block- Absurdity, Abelism, spending, elections**
**2NR- Abelism**

**Semis V Roswell CL**

**1AC- Port security (terrorism)**
**1NC- Underlying structures T, spending, elections, adv cp, Absurdity**
**Block- K, spending, cp, case**
**2NR- K**

===**Blue Key**=== 
**Rd 3 V Roswell CL**

**1AC- Port security (terrorism)**
**1NC- T- structures, terrorism adv cp, spending disad, elections disad, Absurdity K, case**
**Block- spending, cp, elections, case**
**2NR- Case, cp, elections**

**Rd 5 V Ft. Lauderdale MZ**

**1AC- Bering straight aff (russia relations, global rail)**
**1NC- T- land grants, Absurdity K, oil disad, spending disad, elections disad, russia adv cp, case**
**Block- K, cp, elections, case**
**2NR- elections**

**Semis V Roswell UM**

**1AC- K disabilities (Abelism, Indiviudalism)**
**1NC- Framework, ethics disad, coercion disad, vote down cp, absurdity, case**
**Block- FW, cp, ethics, coercian**
**2NR- Framework**

===Cairo=== 

**Rd 2 V Hoco MH**

**1AC- Megaports (Terrorism, Trade, Wind power)**
**1NC- T-increase, Spending, Fiscal cliff (hate this da), terror adv cp, Terror talk K, Wind turns, trade turns, case D**
**Block- T, spending, case turns, Case D**
**2NR- Spending, case turns and D**

===Milton=== 

**Rd. 1 V Hooch IW**

**1AC- Port security (Terrorism, coast gaurd)**
**1NC- Spending, DOJ cp, Lacan K, case**
**Block- Spending, case**
**2nr- Spending, case**

**Rd. 4 V Wheeler MP**

**1AC- CCS (Warming, cooperation)**
**1NC- T-TI, T-its, Absurdity, spending, Case (warming turns, coop turns)**
**Block- Absurdity, T-its (hehe), Warming turns, coop D**
**2NR- K**

**Rd. 5 V Alpharetta PW**

**1AC- Icebreakers (North, South)**
**1NC- T In the US, T vehicles, Spending, privates, Lacan, case**
**Block- spending, cp, case**
**2NR- Spending, case**

===Marist=== 

**Rd. 1 V Woodward ??**

**1AC- HSR (Warming, Econ)**
**1NC-RSP cp, Lacan K, Warming solvency turns, Stim Bad turns**
**Block- Cp, turns, K**
**2NR- K**

===**Harvard**=== 

**Rd. 1 V EL meyers CP**

**1AC- Nextgen (Econ, crashes, leadership, warming)**
**1NC- Privates cp, spending da, ga da, absurdity K, case**
**Block- Spending, cp, k, case**
**2NR- K**

**Rd. 3 V Cypress bay FQ**

**1AC- Universal design (Abelism, stigma)**
**1NC- Absurdist action K, ethics da, coercion da, case turns**
**Block- Everything**
**2NR- K**

**Rd. 5 V ACORN TJ**

**1AC- Black narrative**
**1NC-Framework, Absurdist action K, ethics da, coercian da, Black-white binary K, Reps/hip-hop bad**
**Block- Absurdist action K, ethics, coercion, reps/hip-hop**
**2NR- K**

===**NFL districts**=== 

**Rd. 2 V Cairo AD**

**1AC- HTF (Innovation, cooperation)**
**1NC- Effects T, reform cp, gas tax da, co2 da, lacan K, case**
**Block- Cp, gas tax da, co2 da, case**
**2NR- Das, case**

===**GFCA Varsity State**=== 

**Rd. 1 V Hooch KW**

**1AC- Nanotech (econ, nanowars)**
**1NC- Lacan, Stim bad, Co2 good, case**
**Block- Stim Bad, Case, Co2 good**
**2NR- Stim Bad**

**Rd. 4 V John's Creek LX**

**1AC- Nextgen (asteroids, Overfishing)**
**1NC- Lacan, Stim bad, co2 good, privates cp**
**Block- Stim bad, Cp, Co2 good, case**
**2NR- Stim, cp, case**


===**CFL**=== 

**Rd. 1 V Icebreakers**

**1AC- Oil prices, Russia War**
**1NC- Stim Da, State K, T- vehicles, T- Us, case**
**Block-K, da**
**2NR- K**

**Rd. 4 V Thomas Jefferson**

**1AC- Black** **Genealogy**
**1NC- T- TI, Ethics da, coercion da, Visibility K, Violence good K, Social death reps bad**
**Block- Violence good, Coercion, Social Death**
**2NR- Violence Good**

**Rd. 5 V** **<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Pittsburgh Central Catholic</span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1AC- freight rail (competitiveness)</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NC- T- substantial, State K, Stim da, case</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Block- Case, K, da</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR- K</span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Doubles V Port Security</span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1AC- Terrorism, trafficking</span>**
**1NC- T- infrastructure, stim da, state K, case**
**Block- K, da, case**
**2NR- K**
==Ks== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Absurdity K\</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Requested cites-Absurdity K-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Uncertainty and insecurity are inevitable – chaos is the permanent state of existence. The aff’s attempt to impose order onto a world that is not and cannot be ordered creates and reinforces the existential anxiety of our time, causing totalitarianism.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gordan ‘03</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Kerry, PHD psychology of philosophy/ director of research center on chaos/uncertainty, “The Impermanence of Being: Toward A Psychology Of Uncertainty” Journal of Humanistic Psychology 2003; 43; 96)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">I have a recurring dream:......</span> **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">which may not really be there</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">”</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Stamps, 1980, p. i).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">This drive for perfection causes a denial of what makes us human, oppression, and genocide.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Issac ‘89</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Jeffrey, “Arendt, Camus and Postmodern Politics” PRAXIS International, issue: 1+2 / 1989, pages: 48-71)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This leads us to a second key feature of totalitarianism ............... terroristic literally insofar as it licenses systematic murder.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is to do nothing in embracing the absurd</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Park ’06</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(James, Philosophy Professor at the University of Minnesota, “Our Existential Predicament: Loneliness Depression Anxiety and Death”, p. 68)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Our fundamental **absurdity** is disclosed ......... floating serenely on a surprising hope and joy.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Requested cites-Absurdity K-AT: perm]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">AT: perm</span></span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alt could not be more mutually exclusive – anything less than an unconditional commitment to existential freedom ensures that absurdity consumes us</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Park ’06 (James, Philosophy Professor at the University of Minnesota, “Our Existential Predicament: Loneliness Depression Anxiety and Death”, p. 21, jj)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When we find ourselves on the edge of the Abyss, ........... We can unconditionally commit ourselves only in one basic direction.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Requested cites-Absurdity K-AT: extinction OW]]AT: extinction OW</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">no impact to extinction without authenticity - life is literally meaningless until we embrace the absurd and start asking the hard questions about whether life can have a purpose</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Park ’06 (James, Philosophy Professor at the University of Minnesota, “Our Existential Predicament: Loneliness Depression Anxiety and Death”, p. 73, jj)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sometimes we find ourselves ........ But is it not circular, adding up to precisely zero in the end?</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Requested cites-Absurdity K-Alt Solvency]]Alt Solvency</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Embracing the absurd is key to rebellion, authenticity, and re-activating value to life</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Park ’06</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(James, Philosophy Professor at the University of Minnesota, “Our Existential Predicament: Loneliness Depression Anxiety and Death”, p. 63, jj)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Most of the means of //coping// with .........</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">__; so the Authentic response is to drink the acid and make it part of ourselves.__</span>

<span class="cite" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The alt is a pre-requisite to the aff – you can’t solve anything without confronting our absurdity</span>**</span>
<span class="cite" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Akram</span>__**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> ‘</span><span class="cite" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">91</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Tanweer; Holiday, “The Philosophy of Jean-Paul Sartre”; 18 January 1991; [[http://www.bradcolbourne.com/exist.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In Albert Camus's philosophical and literary ...... __when he correctly perceives the universe.__</span>


==Das== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**GA disad**</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General aviation is high now but NextGen crushes it</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Spence 12 (Charles, General Aviation News, //Could NextGen Ground GA?,// 4-10,[[http://www.generalaviationnews.com/2012/04/10/could-nextgen-ground-ga/]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">When good developments are made</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, (.........) President Dwight Eisenhower saw the problem. So did William Randolph Hearst, Jr. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Farm yields will plummet without general aviation</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Maher 1 (Guy R., Business Owner and Aircraft Appraiser with 12,000 Flight Hours in General Aviation Airplanes and Helicopters, “Owner’s Handbook: Cream of the Crops”, General Aviation News, 1-1,[[http://www.generalaviationnews.com/2001/01/01/owners-handbook-cream-of-the-crops/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Light aircraft are trainers, check-runners, (..............)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> in a day</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, the association claims.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Lugar 4 (Richard G., U.S. Senator – Indiana and Former Chair – Senate Foreign Relations Committee, “Plant Power”, Our Planet, 14(3), [[http://www.unep.org/ourplanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In a world confronted by global (.............)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> billions</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> of people </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and the health of our planet</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GA declining and ripples across the economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">NBAA 9 (National Business Aviation Association, “General Aviation Industry Hurting During Economic Downturn”, 3-30, [[http://www.nbaa.org/advocacy/issues/economic-downturn/recession.php]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General aviation is an </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">essential (.............)</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> impact is felt all </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">across America's economy</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Neg-Cites-NextGen Trade-off disad]]**NextGen Trade-off disad**</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NextGen’s on the chopping block – key to __innovative, efficient__ commercial aerospace</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Holleywell and Lipman 4-12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Ryan and Daniel“The 5 Biggest U.S. Infrastructure Projects, Plus 5 at Risk,” April 2012, GOVERNING is the nation's leading media platform covering politics, policy and management for state and local government leaders. Recognized as the most credible and authoritative voice in its field, GOVERNING provides nonpartisan news, insight and analysis on such issues as public finance, transportation, economic development, health, energy, the environment and technology,[[http://www.governing.com/topics/transportation-infrastructure/gov-5-biggest-us-infrastructure-projects-plus-5-at-risk.html]], AMukund)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">When airplanes are delayed</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, nobody wins.(..........................)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> NextGen ground and aircraft systems</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation infrastructure investment occurs through __zero-sum budget redistribution__</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">GAO ‘5</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Government Accountability Office “The Benefits and Costs of Highway and Transit Investments,” May 6 2005, Highlights of an Expert Panel,[[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d05423sp.pdf]], AMukund)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">For transportation analysts </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the redistributive effects (...........................).</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> equitable geographic distribution of federal transportation funds.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">NextGen failure collapses the economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">AIA 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Aerospace Industries Association, “Civil Aviation – Second to None”, [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/ip_civil_2011.pdf]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. civil aviation industry plays (..........................)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> FAA’s capital and RE&D accounts</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That __ruins interdependence__ and risks __nuclear war__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kemp ‘10</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The second scenario, called Mayhem (......................)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> consequences for</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> two-thirds of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the planet’s population</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==Cps== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Terrorism Cp</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">**Text is usually something along the lines of: USFG should fund the Department of Justice more. It'll be clearer in round**</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Cp solves terrorism</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">DOJ 6 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">(“Fact Sheet: Department of Justice Anti-Terrorism Efforts Since Sept. 11, 2001”, September 6, [[http://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/2006/September/06_opa_590.html]]”</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON –</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">The highest priority…… </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">are awaiting extradition.</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Other motivations aren't as important- DOJ solves terror</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">DOJ 7 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">(“THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE’S INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER TERRORISM REPORTING”, February 2007, Audit Report, [[http://www.justice.gov/oig/reports/plus/a0720/final.pdf]])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">After the terrorist attacks…. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">used for decision-making. </span>