[[toc]]
=:3= 

aff --> tennisxu@gmail.com

neg --> vikr4m.kohli@rgmail.com

=aff= 
==prisoner zero affirmative== 
===1ac harvard=== 
====1ac prisons==== 

The middle passage and chattel slavery are the first forms of genocidal incarceration that shape modern politics, perpetuate social control, and formulate the U.S prison regime that legitimizes the immobilization and dehumanization of the non-white
Rodriguez ‘07 [Dylan, PhD in Ethnic Studies Program of the University of California Berkeley and Associate Proffessor of Ethnic Studies at University of California Riverside, “American Globality And the US Prison regime: State Violence And White Supremacy from Abu Ghraib to Stockton to bagong diwa”, Ateneo de Manila University, 2007, Kritika Kultura 9 (2007): 022-048]
The U.S. Prison Regime as White Supremacist (Global) Mobilization We might imagine the U.S. prison, not as a discrete institution or reified place, but rather as an abstracted site—a prototype—of organized punishment and (social, civil, and biological) death. I begin this section with two points of departure, in an attempt to initially provoke a conceptualization of the American prison regime that focuses on the intertwining of two structural logics: 1) white supremacy as a historical modality of social (dis)organization, and 2) the capacity of allegedly “local” or “domestic” U.S. social formations to circulate, militarize, and mobilize across global geographies. The emergence of the American prison industrial complex since the 1970s is generally addressed as a problem of the “American nation,” and until recently has largely been situated by academic scholars, progressive activists, and imprisoned intellectuals within the domains of the domestic social formation. Yet, even the concise definition of the prison industrial complex penned in 2001 by U.S. political prisoner Linda Evans (released in 2001) and activist Eve Goldberg facilitates an inquiry that pushes past parochial geographies of the U.S. national form: “Like the military/industrial complex, the prison industrial complex is an interweaving of private business and government interests. Its twofold purpose is profit and social control. Its public rationale is the fight against crime” (Evans and Goldberg). Beyond Kritika Kultura, Issue 9, November 2007 58 the strictures of conventional criminological approaches to the U.S. prison apparatus, Evans and Goldberg are suggesting an organic connection between the architecture of the prison industrial complex and the structuring forces of neoliberalism and globalization: the socioeconomic transformations of U.S. capital, alongside contemporary elaborations of the U.S. racist state in the post-Civil Rights moment, simultaneously a.) fabricate populations vulnerable to criminalization (black, brown, poor, and generically redundant to the contemporary economic organization of the U.S.); b.) withdraw state social services for people most in need of resources for social and biological reproduction; c.) militarize and juridically empower the policing and criminal justice apparatuses in unprecedented ways while amplifying their fundamentally punitive institutional demeanours; and d.) generate a dynamic statecraft, public discourse, and popular culture of policing and imprisonment that organize a grammar of social necessity and ideological consent around the emergence and expansion of the prison industrial complex. Here we must remember that among the millions of people held captive by the U.S. state in prisons, jails, youth prisons, and immigration detention, people of African descent are imprisoned at rates astronomically high relative to their proportion of the national population (exceeding 400% of their national demographic proportion), and at rates dwarfing those of white Americans (see Gershowitz). Native Americans repeat this pattern, although their smaller demographic numbers often obscure their heightened criminalization by the U.S. state. Latinos, Latinas, and other racialized brown people are increasingly targeted in ways that directly derive from, and expand, the historical structures of white Kritika Kultura, Issue 9, November 2007 59 supremacist policing and imprisonment that target Black and indigenous people, in part through the specificities of migrant/immigrant policing and criminalization. Despite composing the national majority of the U.S. population, white Americans compose less than half of the incarcerated U.S. population. Black, Brown, and indigenous peoples constitute upwards of 60% held captive. For the unfamiliar, a few other facts assist in laying bare the accelerated nature of this massive state-sanctioned project: 1 Between 1972 and 2003, the imprisoned (jail and prison) population in the U.S. increased more than 600%; for the five decades prior to the 1970s, the incarcerated population had remained relatively stable, hovering between 100,000-200,000. 2 The U.S. boasts of the highest rate of incarceration in the world, at 702 per 100,000 in the general population; this rate is between 500 and 800% that of comparable industrialized nations. 3 African Americans are incarcerated at nearly six times the rate of whites (2,290 per 100,000 versus 412 per 100,000), while Hispanics are incarcerated at nearly double the rate of whites (742 per 100,000). 4 According to one of the most rigorous criminological studies to date (examining the period 1980-1996), the imprisonment increase does not derive from objective changes in the commission of crimes, but rather is almost entirely owed to politically formed changes in sentencing and criminal justice policy (see Gershowitz). Thus, as the U.S. prison, jail, INS/Homeland Security detainee and incarcerated youth Kritika Kultura, Issue 9, November 2007 60 population approaches and surpasses the 2.5 million mark (as of this writing), the quantitative evidence refracts the prison’s qualitative transformation into a fundamental organ of state reproduction and civic ordering. Variable, overlapping, and mutually constituting white supremacist regimes have in fact been fundamental to the formation and movements of the United States, from racial chattel slavery and frontier genocide to recent and current modes of neoliberal land displacement and (domestic-to-global) warfare. Without exception, these regimes have been differently entangled with the state’s changing paradigms, strategies, and technologies of human incarceration and punishment (to follow the prior examples: the plantation, the reservation, the neoliberal sweatshop, and the domestic-to-global prison). The historical nature of these entanglements is widely acknowledged, although explanations of the structuring relations of force tend to either isolate or historically compartmentalize the complexities of historical white supremacy. For the theoretical purposes of this essay, white supremacy may be understood as a logic of social organization that produces regimented, institutionalized, and militarized conceptions of hierarchized “human” difference, enforced through coercions and violences that are structured by genocidal possibility (including physical extermination and curtailment of people’s collective capacities to socially, culturally, or biologically reproduce). As a historical vernacular and philosophical apparatus of domination, white supremacy is simultaneously premised on and consistently innovating universalized conceptions of the white (european and euroamerican) “human” vis-à-vis the rigorous production, penal discipline, and frequent social, political, and biological neutralization or extermination of the (non-white) sub- or non-human. to consider white supremacy as essential to American social formation (rather than a freakish or extremist deviation from it) facilitates a discussion of the modalities through which this material logic of violence overdetermines the social, political, economic, and cultural structures that compose American globality and constitute the common sense that is organic to its ordering. While the US prison industrial complex constitutes a statecraft of perpetual domestic crisis that emerges from this social logic of white supremacy, the US prison regime is becoming profoundly undomesticated in a twofold sense: the technologies of carceral racial domination have distended into localities beyond the US proper (they are extra-domestic), while the focused and mundane (though no less severe) bodily violence of the prison’s operative functions have constituted a microwarfare apparatus, accessing and penetrating captive bodies with an unprecedented depth and complexity (the regime is in this sense defined by an unhinged, undomesticated violence). In this context, the (racial) formations of punishment and death inscribed on the various surfaces of the US prison regime—from the nearby to the far away—are in fact generally unremarkable. It cannot be overemphasized that this carceral formation produces a normal and trite violence, a naturalized facet of American social intercourse across scales and geographies, forming the underside of a civil society that is historically unimaginable outside its modalities of formal exclusion and civil/ social neutralization. Yet, it is precisely as this prison regime rearranges, remobilizes, and redeploys its normalized structure of white supremacist bodily violence into geographies beyond the American everyday that it momentarily surfaces as a spectacle of public consumption and even a critical public discourse, in such moments as the photographic revelation of the uS military’s torture of prisoners at Abu Ghraib. While the “national” scope of the US prison industrial complex constitutes a profound social and political crisis of epochal scale, it also composes an institutional symbiosis that has yielded an authentic conjunctural articulation of state violence that is both organic to the domestic US carceral and capable of rearticulation, appropriation, and mobilization across global geographies. Thus, to understand the prison as a regime is to focus conceptually, theoretically, and politically on the prison as a pliable module or mobilized vessel through which the state generates particular practices of legitimated violence and bodily immobilization. “Prison regime” is a conceptual and theoretical (not a discretely “institutional”) phrase that refers to a modality through which the state organizes, rationalizes, and deploys specific technologies of violence, domination, and subjection—technologies that are otherwise reserved for deployment in sites of declared war or martial law: in this usage, “prison regime” differentiates both the scale and object of analysis from the more typical macro- scale institutional categories of “the prison,” “the prison system,” and, for that matter, “the prison industrial complex.” the conceptual scope of this term similarly exceeds the analytical scope of prison management, prison policy, and “the prison (or prisoner’s) experience,” categories that most often take textual form through discrete case studies, institutional reform initiatives, prison ethnographies, and empirical criminological surveys. Rather, the notion of a prison regime invokes a “meso” (middle, or mediating) dimension of processes, structures, and vernaculars that compose the state’s modalities of self-articulation and self-conceptualization, institutional crafting, and “rule” across the macro and micro scales. It is within this meso range of fluctuating articulations of power that the prison is inscribed as both a localization and constitutive logic of the state’s production of juridical, spatial, and militarized dominion. A genealogy of the prison regime foregrounds the essential instability—the unnaturalness—of its object of discussion, suggesting a process of historical analysis and theorization that methodologically extends beyond 1.) the particular and mystified institutionality of the discrete and narrowly bounded entity we know as the Prison; and 2.) the juridical and institutional formalities of the state’s supposed “ownership” of and orderly proctorship over the Prison as it is conventionally conceived. On the contrary, I am examining the ways in which it is the prison regime that possesses and constitutes the state. I am suggesting a doubled meaning to the notion of “possession.” First, in the sense of a haunting intervention—the state’s “possession” by the sometimes ghostly and always haunting technologies of power and violence that emanate from the prison (echoing sociologist Avery Gordon’s conception of ghosts and haunting as material social forces), and second, as a denotation of the significant political influence of the prison regime’s designated agents and administrators on the broader architecture of the state. This conceptualization of the prison regime resonates with Michel Foucault’s meditation on the displacement of unitary sovereign powers in modern and postmodern social formations. He is, of course, famously concerned with the production of regimes of Kritika Kultura, Issue 9, November 2007 64 power through situated apparatuses and institutions (e.g. the asylum, the clinic, the prison, the military), which in turn circulate power socially through various embodiments, including symbolic orderings, “sciences,” para/military technologies, and strategically sited and situated human bodies. In his lecture of 14 January 1976 Foucault contends: Our object is not to analyze rule-governed and legitimate forms of power which have a single center, or to look at what their general mechanisms or its overall effects might be. Our object is, on the contrary, to understand power by looking at its extremities, at its outer limits at the points where it becomes capillary; in other words, to understand power in its most regional forms and institutions, and especially at the points where this power transgresses the rules of right that organize and delineate it, oversteps those rules and is invested in institutions, is embodied in techniques and acquires the material means to intervene, sometimes in violent ways. (emphasis added 23) Foucault’s “capillary power” designates the manner in which power circulates, materializing through the form and movement of its outermost (extreme) points of expression. The prison, precisely such a capillary site for the production and movement of power, exerts a dominion that reaches significantly beyond its localized setting. This is to argue that the post-1970s emergence of a reformed and reconceived prison regime has become central to constituting the political logic as well as the material reproduction of the United States social formation. I am thus reconceptualizing the prison as a putative “centering” and consolidation of power that, in practice, necessarily exceeds and violates its official directives and juridical norms. Kritika Kultura, Issue 9, November 2007 65 As a regime, the prison functions through excesses and violations, at times uncodified or nominally “illegal,” though generally occurring within generously interpreted rubrics of institutional policy and protocol: that is, this regime constitutively belies and abrogates its “rule-governed” and “legitimate” discursive-institutional inscription as The Prison. Finally, to situate the prison’s strategically sited technologies of violence and human subjection as a normal and “everyday” regime of punishment is to firmly locate these alleged excesses of the state within the larger socio-historical fabric in which they are entangled, and of which they are constitutive. The state’s contemporary modality of power and enunciation—its statecraft—works through the constant exceeding of its announced material boundaries and juridical limits. Brutality, torture, and excess should be understood as an essential element of American statecraft, not its corruption or deviation. This is to suggest that The Prison, as a state articulation of rigidly centered and conservatively ordered institutional power, does not actually exist, and that it is best conceptualized as a rigorously reproduced mythology of sober and narrowly deployed state power. This mythology effectively rationalizes and re-narrates a domestic (or systemically internal) site of aggressively one-sided, racially gendered warfare. It is in this conceptual and theoretical context that the racist bodily violence so excruciatingly rendered in the 2004 Abu Ghraib prison photos (Higham and Stephens AO1+) is in no way unique or exceptional, but rather forms a small portion of a long historical genealogy of incarceration and punishment.

Modern day transportation is a modality of disorganization shaped by the historical transportation of prisoners that facilitated slavery, continuation of white supremacy and status quo profit maximization which makes isolation and commodification of the enslaved perpetual.
Welch and Turner 2008 [Michael, Professor in the Criminal Justice program at Rutgers University specializing in criminology, state crime, and human rights, Fatiniyah – School of Criminal Justice, Rutgers, “Private Corrections, Financial Infrastructure, and Transportation: The New Geo-Economy of Shipping Prisoners” Social Justice, JSTOR. http://www.jstor.org/stable/29768464=]
As European nations ventured into their colonial campaigns, they systematically instituted transportation as a means of transferring labor while serving to banish certain lawbreakers to distant lands. Indeed, such punishment was particularly brutal. In Russia, the 850,000 convicts exiled to Siberia between 1807 and 1899 were forced to march between 4,700 and 6,700 miles while chained together. The journey often lasted two to three years, producing steep death rates (Sellin, 1976). At the infamous Devil's Island in French Guiana?depicted in the movie Papillon?approximately 68,000 of the 70,000 prisoners died before completing their sentence. As evidence of its enduring penal utility, the French government continued its use of Devils Island until 1953 (Tappan, 1960). Other European countries also resorted to transportation, in particular Spain (Hispaniola), Portugal (North Africa, Brazil, and Cape Verde), Italy (Sicily), Denmark (Greenland), and Holland (Dutch East Indies) (Barnes and Teeters, 1946). Aside from those important geo-penal developments, U.S. and Australian criminologists tend to direct their studies to the British version of transportation, noting that England began transporting rogues, vagabonds, and sturdy beggars to colonial lands in 1598 in an attempt to rid itself of a growing underclass and ease overcrowding in prisons and gaols (jails). In the Australian and American colonies, penal slaves served lengthy sentences in forced labor, and a century later, the use of transportation expanded considerably. The Transportation Act of 1718 stated specifically that the purpose of transportation was to deter criminals and to supply the colonies with labor. In 1787, England expanded the policy by declaring that offenders sentenced to three or more years of imprisonment were eligible for transportation; furthermore, the penalty for an unauthorized return was execution. Still, the practice extended beyond its penal and economic functions to fulfill other government initiatives, namely, social sanitation whereby vagrants and other social (and political and religious) undesirables were transported in an effort to purify certain urban zones. Also in the realm of expressive punishment, transportation lent itself to humiliating public spectacle; in London, men and women were placed in heavy chains and drawn in open carts through the local crowds, who jeered and terrorized them (Johnson, 1988). The practice of transportation was not solely a state operation; it was privatized through contracts, under which felons became the property of the ships' captains. Perhaps due to this contractual arrangement, convicts were subjected to horrible conditions aboard these vessels (known as "floating hells"), and many died en route to the penal colony. Felons who survived the voyage were subsequently sold at a high price to American colonists, usually becoming indentured servants. Upon completion of their term, lasting from seven to 14 years, the banished felons were allowed to remain in the colony as free citizens, with some even granted land by their owners (Barnes, 1968; Rusche and Kirchheimer, 1968). An estimated quarter of a million prisoners were sent to the American colonies, but the Revolutionary War led the King to terminate the practice to prevent banished felons from being recruited as soldiers against the British monarchy (see Barnes and Teeters, 1946; Shaw, 1966; Welch, 2004a). Nevertheless, Britain continued to rely on transportation, sending approximately 134,000 prisoners to Australia between 1786 and 1867 (Sutherland et al., 1992; see Hughes, 1986). In the American colonies, however, the demise of transportation merely contributed to the rise of slavery, putting into motion an enduring character of the new Republic in which racism, plantation labor, and punishment would become tightly wound (Rusche, 1982; Smith, 1965). Recently, scholars have returned to the significance of historical developments in an effort to decipher contemporary penal practices, especially those with linkages to the private sector (Bozovic, 1995; Feeley, 2000). Additionally, critical attention has turned to the importance of race in formulating penal measures that remained very much rooted in the practice of slavery: most notably, the convict lease system that flourish in the South from 1865 to the 1920s. "Caught between the legal restrictions of abolition and a paramount need for cheap labor, convict leasing emerged as a uniquely Southern solution to the postbellum labor shortage and facilitated a continuation of the ideology of white supremacy"(Hallett, 2004: 51; see Sheldon 2001). Deepening our understanding of contemporary prison 62 Welch and Turner privatization as it intersects with the continued plight of African-Americans, Hallett (2006, 2002) presents an analysis of commerce with criminals in the context of a new colonialism. His conclusions are particular noteworthy since they remain situated within a framework that connects the legacy of the convict lease system to the commodification of prisoners?predominately racial minorities?who serve as raw materials for the present incarnation of penal privatization (see Weiss, 2001, 1989, 1987; Western and Beckett, 1999). With those contributions in full view, it is useful to examine past penal practices alongside recent developments in the privatization of prisons, namely transportation. Whereas prisoners are frequently transferred to correctional facilities within their own state, the practice of transferring inmates across state lines is a phenomenon that has been generally neglected in the critical scholarship on prison privatization. Looking into this modern version of transportation, we found that prisoners are being shipped across state lines for the sole purpose of occupying cells in private prisons and detention facilities. Unlike earlier forms of transportation in which prisoners were ferried to a colonial land to perform labor, the value of prisoners under the current scheme is to exploit their ability to serve their sentences in private prison cells at government taxpayer expense. The federal government, and particularly its immigration service, has been sending prisoners and detainees to private correctional facilities located in numerous states; for state correctional systems to do so, however, is inherently significant. Moreover, the distances that some prisoners travel are comparable to those transported in earlier eras. The Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) owns and operates correctional and detention facilities across the country and many receive prisoners from considerable distances. Its Florence Correctional Center in Arizona houses prisoners from as far away as Hawaii (and Alaska), as do the Otter Creak Correctional Facility in Wheelwright, Kentucky, and the Diamond Back Correctional facility in Watonga, Oklahoma. West Tennessee Detention Facility in Mason, Tennessee, imports prisoners from Vermont. The GEO Group (Global Expertise in Outsourcing) also trades in the transportation of prisoners; its Bill Clayton Deten? tion Center in Littlefield, Texas, includes in its correctional population inmates from Wyoming (see Appendix B).2 Although the private prison companies we studied refused our request to deter? mine the precise number of out-of-state prisoners held in their facilities, the overall figure is less significant to this examination. Central to establishing a penal-economic analysis informed by historical practices is the idea that transporting prisoners can be used to generate profit. So often we view contemporary incarceration as a static phenomenon in which convicts remain relatively stationary during their imprisonment. Modern transportation, much like its ancestral counterpart, demonstrates that dynamic incarceration that renders commodified prisoners mobile is good for business. What is good for business, however, is not always good for prisoners. Modern transportation, particularly to states located far from the inmates' home Private Corrections, Financial Infrastructure, and Transportation 63 states, deepens the incarceration experience and leads to further isolation. Long? distance telephone contact is expensive, as is travel for families and friends of prisoners. Over time, one could expect even less contact for inmates serving lengthy sentences, imposing further hardship on those confined and their loved ones. Added to the adverse effects of modern transportation for prisoners and their families is the political and economic impact on their communities. If we recall that with the emergence of the census, the U.S. Constitution initially acknowledged that slaves could not vote, but nevertheless counted each slave as three-fifths of a person so as to allocate political representation in Congress. This sharply inflated the power of slaveholders, giving them distinct advantages in influencing legislative matters. Nowadays the movement of prisoners within a given state also creates an unwarranted advantage in districts where convicts are confined at the expense of their home neighborhoods. The culprit is a provision in the census that counts prison inmates as "residents" of the institution where they are held, often for relatively short periods of time. Denied the right to vote in all but 2 of the 50 states, the inmates are nonetheless treated as voters when the State Legislators draw up legislative districts. This practice mattered little 30 years ago when the prison population was tiny. But with about 1.4 million people in prison today, it can be used to shift political power from one part of the state to another (New York Times, 2005: A22; see New York Times, 2006). America's 1,200 state and federal prisons hold approximately 1.5 million inmates (with an additional 500,000 in local jails), the equivalent of two congressional districts. Moreover, the number of prisoners serving time outside their home district exceeds one million (Marin Independent Journal, 2006). Peter Wagner of the Prison Policy Initiative studied the problem in New York State and found that seven upstate Senate districts met the population requirements only because they included prisoners in their count. Wagner also discovered similar findings in 21 other counties nationwide where at least 21 % of the so-called residents lived under lock and key (Wagner, 2006; 2004). In Gatesville, Texas, a city of 15,600, half the population is housed in six state prisons. With a population of 247,000, Marin County, California, is a prime beneficiary of the practice of counting prisoners as residents since it includes in its census 6,000 "residents" inside San Quentin Prison. This form of district formation violates the principle of one person, one vote, while sticking it to the prisoners' home base. Indeed, since prisoners are technically unemployed, the district is capable of artificially lowering its per capita incomes in ways that unfairly increase their share of federal dollars allocated for the poor. A case in point is New York City, which loses 36,000 residents who are shipped to upstate prisons. Congressman Jose Serrano from the Bronx insists that it is an issue of fairness: "Because federal dollars are based on population, prisoners should be counted in their last known permanent residences where they are likely to 64 Welch and Turner to upon release" (Marin Independent Journal, 2006: 1; see Butterfield, 2004; Gonnerman, 2004; Lawrence and Travis, 2004). As this segment demonstrates, the penal-economic nexus produces serious forms of inequality.

And, the prison industrial complex justifies the normality in situations like Abu Ghraib and Bagram and this hyper-invisbility by fabricating bodily violence as a part of globalization, while ignoring the brutality of institutional violence that is socially and civically reproduced every day. Whiteness is not confined to the borders of America – it has colonized Oriental, Asian, Afghani and Iraqi bodies internationally by perpetuating the same institutions which were shaped by chattel slavery.
Rodriguez ‘07 [Dylan, PhD in Ethnic Studies Program of the University of California Berkeley and Associate Proffessor of Ethnic Studies at University of California Riverside, “American Globality And the US Prison regime: State Violence And White Supremacy from Abu Ghraib to Stockton to bagong diwa”, Ateneo de Manila University, 2007, Kritika Kultura 9 (2007): 022-048]
Reading through Hartman’s genealogy, Abu Ghraib becomes “scandalous” only as a globally visible production of the illicit, the private (or secret), and the normal of the United States as a social and racial formation that is not only inseparable from, but is in fact produced by its regimes of bodily capture and disintegration. Here, the scandal of hypervisibility enmeshing the prison tortures at Abu Ghraib unwittingly reveals both the normality and unremarkability of the U.S. prison regime’s historical everyday, which is traceable in its current racialized and white supremacist form to the nominal abolition of racial chattel slavery and the replacement of the slave plantation with new forms of antiblack criminalization and an incipient apartheid prison apparatus; note that the text of the Thirteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which is commonly referenced as the passage that formally extinguished the institution of slavery in 1865, reads as follows: “Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction” (emphasis added). Thus, the logic of chattel enslavement was formally transposed from the body of the (racially defined) slave to the body of the (racially criminalized) prisoner/convict: as such, the everyday matrices of social and political intercourse historically composed by the epoch of U.S. racial slavery have sustained through the institutional nuances and movements of the prison regime. The exhibited tortures at Abu Ghraib prison, to the extent that they have been treated with analytics and rhetorics invoking (or at least inferring) novelty, uniqueness, and discontinuity with precedent (and for that matter contemporaneous) forms of U.S. militarization and incarceration, have generated a political and theoretical noise that substantively fails to account for their substantive legibility within the prison regime’s longer genealogy, as well as the simultaneity of its geographically dispersed violences. By way of example: virtually simultaneous with the international circulation of the Abu Ghraib photos was a mind-numbing series of revelations in the Los Angeles Times regarding the normative operation of the California Youth Authority (CYA), among the largest prison systems in the world devoted to incarcerating children and youth. In April 2004, California State Senator Gloria Romero (a noteworthy progressive critic of the California criminal justice apparatus) publicly released a videotape depicting a pair of CYA officers overpowering and mercilessly beating Vincent Baker and Narcisco Morales in a small office at the Chaderjian Youth Correctional Facility, Stockton, CA (Warren “Videotaping” B1+). CA Attorney General Bill Lockyer chose not to charge the guards with a crime, citing “insufficient evidence.” A second surveillance tape surfaced the next month, also from Chaderjian YCF, showing another correctional officer releasing a trained German shepherd on Manuel Renteria. Renteria survived the attack, suffering severe nerve damage (Warren “Attack” B1+). A month or so prior to the eruption of the Abu Ghraib scandal, in February 2004, the families of Deon Whitfield and Durrell Taddon Feaster filed claims against the CYA, contending that the two young men’s “suicides” were produced by heinous institutional negligence, cruel and unusual punishment, and hostile indifference to the young men’s medical needs (Chong B6). The CYA was also accused of tampering with evidence after doubts arose over the verity of its hasty characterization of the deaths as suicides. The litany of institutional violence during this most recent period (2004-2005) continues ad nauseam, ranging from consistent reports of sexual assault by guards and the ongoing use of long-term (sixty-ninety days) isolation confinement, to the innovation of single person steel cage “classrooms” and the first-resort pepper-spraying of imprisoned mentally ill youth. I offer this snapshot of normalized “torture” and “brutality” in California youth prisons to suggest that excessive carceral state violence, while nominally illegal, is generally state-sanctioned (that is, unprosecuted and unacknowledged as such) even when it obtains momentary currency in the realm of public discourse. Further, such critical counter-state testimonials addressing the “local” sites of the U.S. prison regime amount, with a few notable exceptions, to little more than a muted echo of the far more widespread and urgent discussions of prison torture that have been articulated by outraged Americans and elements of the global left in relation to prisoners tortured and brutalized under the auspices of the American prison regime, but whom are located outside the domestic dominion of the U.S. proper. Thus, throughout 2004, this state-proctored punishment and biological/civil/social death of racially criminalized children and young adults in California largely eluded the most immediate political concern, if not broader social vision, of these multiple U.S. and global publics, which were preoccupied with making political fetish of the U.S. military’s prisons in Cuba and Iraq. While the CYA’s (non)scenes of captivity and bodily violence preceded, accompanied, and enmeshed the international spectacle of Abu Ghraib prison, they ultimately merely reinscribed a domestic structure of punishment and death that has been 1.) culturally assimilated into the normative functioning of the U.S. state and its presumed symbiosis with civil society; 2.) institutionally integrated into American modalities of social reproduction across scales of locality, region, and nation; and 3.) politically coded as a necessary evil, that is, hegemonically constructed as a primary technology of post-1970s “law and order” and the executor of a presumptive communal and personal “security.” Looking closely at the current formation of the U.S. prison regime, in this sense, illuminates the white supremacist animus of what many call the American empire. The violence of U.S.-led neoliberal globalization and American state-fashioned (declared and covert) warfare actually speak to the complexity of the U.S. prison regime as a production (and no less as a harnessing and deployment) of technologies of racial bodily violence. This also suggests a practical/activist and scholarly/theoretical centering of white supremacy (in particular, white supremacist state violence) as a fundamental condition of American globality in this moment. A new paradigm of state and state-sanctioned, mass-based and intimate coercion posits strategic, racially articulated human imprisonment (and the violence therein) as the premise (rather than the utilitarian and self-contained “means”) of hegemonic power itself: thus, American global statecraft has become unimaginable outside its prominent productions of incarcerating technologies as material paradigms of dominance, occupation, and political ascendancy. There is a surface resonance here with Negri and Hardt’s conceptualization of Empire as the “right of the police”: In order to take control of and dominate such a completely fluid situation, it is necessary to grant the intervening authority (1) the capacity to define, every time in an exceptional way, the demands of intervention; and (2) the capacity to set in motion the forces and instruments that in various ways can be applied to the diversity and the plurality of the arrangements in crisis. Here, therefore, is born, in the name of the exceptionality of the intervention, a form of right that is really a right of the police. The formation of a new right is inscribed in the deployment of prevention, repression, and rhetorical force aimed at the reconstruction of social equilibrium: all this is proper to the activity of the police. (Hardt and Negri 16-17) In fact, the notion of American globality I have begun discussing here already exceeds Negri and Hardt’s formulation to the extent that it is a global racial formation, and more pointedly a global mobilization of a white supremacist social formation (read: a United States of America formed by the social-economic geographies of racial chattel slavery and their recodification through the post-13th Amendment innovation of other technologies of criminalization and imprisonment). The U.S. prison regime’s production of human immobilization and death composes some of the fundamental modalities of American national coherence. It inscribes two forms of domination that tend to slip from the attention of political theorists, including Negri and Hardt: first, the prison regime strategically institutionalizes the biopolitical structures of white racial/nationalist ascendancy—it quite concretely provides a definition for white American personhood, citizenship, freedom, and racialized patriotism. Second, the prison regime reflects the moral, spiritual, and cultural inscription of Manifest Destiny (and its descendant material cultural and state-building articulations of racist and white supremacist conquest, genocide, and population control) across different historical moments. To invoke and critically rearticulate Negri and Hardt’s formulation, the focal question becomes: How does the right of the U.S.-as-global police to kill, detain, obliterate become voiced, juridically coded, and culturally recoded? The structure of presumption—and therefore relative political silence—enmeshing the prison’s centrality to the logic of American globality is precisely evidence of the fundamental power of the U.S. prison regime within the larger schema of American hegemony. In this sense the U.S. prison regime is ultimately really not an “institution.” Rather it is a formulation of world order (hence, a dynamic and perpetual labor of institutionalization rather than a definitive modernist institution) in which massively scaled, endlessly strategized technologies of human immobilization address (while never fully resolving) the socio-political crises of globalization. The U.S. prison regime defines a global logic of social organization that constitutes, mobilizes, and prototypes across various localities. What would it mean, then, to consider state-crafted, white supremacist modalities of imprisonment as the perpetual end rather than the self-contained means of American globality? I am suggesting a conception of the prison regime that focuses on what cultural and political theorist Allen Feldman calls a “formation of violence,” which anchors the contemporary articulation of white supremacy as a global technology of coercion and hegemony. Feldman writes, The growing autonomy of violence as a self-legitimating sphere of social discourse and transaction points to the inability of any sphere of social practice to totalize society. Violence itself both reflects and accelerates the experience of society as an incomplete project, as something to be made. (5) As a formation of violence that self-perpetuates a peculiar social project through the discursive structures of warfare, the U.S. prison regime composes an acute formation of racial and white supremacist violence, and thus houses the capacity for mobilization of an epochal (and peculiar) white supremacist global logic. This contention should not be confused with the sometimes parochial (if not politically chauvinistic) proposition that American state and state-sanctioned regimes of bodily violence and human immobilization are somehow self-contained “domestic” productions that are exceptional to the United States of America, and that other “global” sites simply “import,” imitate, or reenact these institutionalizations of power. In fact, I am suggesting the opposite: the U.S. prison regime exceeds as it enmeshes the ensemble of social relations that cohere U.S. civil society, and is fundamental to the geographic transformations, institutional vicissitudes, and militarized/economic mobilizations of “globalization” generally. To assert this, however, is to also argue that the constituting violence of the U.S. prison regime has remained somewhat undertheorized and objectified in the overlapping realms of public discourse, activist mobilization, and (grassroots as well as professional) scholarly praxis. Here I am arguing that it is not possible to conceptualize and critically address the emergence and global proliferation of the (U.S./global) prison industrial complex outside a fundamental understanding of what are literally its technical and technological premises: namely, its complex organization and creative production of racist and white supremacist bodily violence. It is only in this context, I would say, that we can examine the problem of how “The Prison” is a modality (and not just a reified product or outcome) of American statecraft in the current political moment. It is only a theoretical foregrounding of the white supremacist state and social formation of the United States that will allow us to understand the U.S. prison regime as an American globality that materializes as it prototypes state violence and for that matter, “state power” itself through a specific institutional site.

Contemporary experiences of Asians is either shaped by the “forever foreigner” mentality which marks Oriental bodies as threats to be eliminated abroad in prisons or military bases, or the myth of the model minority which is used to justify the oppression of black bodies in the US. We, as Asian-Americans, privileged individuals and intellectuals taught to “conform” this debate round must expose the ways in which the US colonizes spaces domestically and internationally as a starting point for coalition-building.
Jalan Journal of Asian Liberation, 2008, “Asians Against White Supremacy,” http://jalanjournal.org/2008/09/asians-against-white-supremacy/
In the United States, racist views of Asian-Americans are promiscuous and self-contradictory. On the one hand, we are told that we are model minorities, hard working citizens living out the classic American story of immigration and upward mobility. On the other hand, we are painted as perpetual foreigners, never quite American even after multiple generations of citizenship. On the one hand, we are supposed to be passive, docile, and submissive, while on the other hand they fear we are the yellow peril, a rising, ruthless, and aggressive empire that will someday destroy the white race. / The fact that these stereotypes are so contradictory show their ludicrousness. Racists project their own fears, anxieties, desires, and aspirations onto us in order to suppress our self-government and make us into who they want us to be, even if what they want us to be makes no sense. But racist fears, anxieties, desires and aspirations are not simply the product of individual ill will, they are shaped by powerful institutions. For example the U.S. military reproduces stereotypes of Asians as an aggressive, brainwashed Mongolian horde in order to raise support for their base expansion projects aimed at containing Chinese military power. Without U.S. military interests in Asia, this stereotype could have died out but instead it is growing. / That’s why liberal strategies of “anti-racism” will not liberate us. Liberals encourage white people to question their stereotypes as part of confronting their “privilege.” They do not attempt to abolish the institutions like military bases that produce and reproduce these stereotypes to keep us subordinated. This editorial will examine the historic political, economic, and social origins of anti-Asian racism. Our goal is not to enlighten anyone’s consciousness but rather to expose the institutions that oppress us so we know who our enemies are and what we need to smash. / The big picture: Facing the double-barreled shotgun of colonialism and empire / In general, we can say that our enemies are the forces of white supremacy, any institutions and practices that have the effect of elevating white people over people of color (including Asians) by subordinating and suppressing our attempts to be self-governing. / In particular, there are two interlocking systems of white supremacy that shape the terrain of Asian American life and struggle. The first consists of the social relations formed by the colonial settlement of North America and the founding of the United States out of colonial settler states. It is the result of land stolen from American Indians and Chicano/as, the enslavement of Blacks, and the extreme exploitation of “free” Black, Indigenous, European, and Asian migrant labor. As a shorthand, we will call all of this “settlerism”.[1] ++ START ENDNOTE ++ [1] The Asian American activist, J. Sakai, has used the concept of “settlerism” to explain the structure of white supremacy and capitalism in the U.S. Sakai argues that most white “workers” have been bought off by the privileges they received from white supremacy and therefore are not part of the working class. While we agree that the U.S. is a product of a colonial settlement process, we recognize that in history some white workers have rejected these privileges and sided with workers of color against white supremacy and capitalism. We believe that such breakthroughs are happening in lower frequencies today and can take form in larger scales. ++ END ENDNOTE ++ Settlerism has created a legacy of terror, violence, and racial hierarchy which Asian Americans have had to navigate. From the moment we arrived as workers in the Wild Wild West we found ourselves facing down the barrels of guns originally pointed at Blacks and American Indians. Later, we found ourselves victims of a Jim-Crow-style legal system. It is only more recently that we have been championed as the “model minority”, a supposed solution to the “problem” of militant Black resistance to 500 years of settler terror. The racist rationale that created such an identification for Asian Americans is further explored below, as well as in other articles. / The second system of white supremacy is related to settlerism but is more global. It consists of the social relations formed through the expansion of U.S. imperialism in Asia through military conquest (the colonization of the Philippines, the partition of Korea, the Vietnam War, etc.) and the domination of American multinational corporations [MNCs], the International Monetary Fund [IMF], and the World Bank over Asian economies. U.S. Empire built off of earlier forms of European imperialism in Asia even as it modified them. Like them, it enforced the fiction of a white Western civilization reforming Asian barbarism. / The experience of Asian Americans has been shaped by the fact that those who rule over us here in the U.S. also subjugated the countries we or our families came from. The architects of U.S. Empire in Asia created a whole string of lies about Asians being backwards, ignorant, weak, and undemocratic in order to justify this subjugation. These lies have been applied to us as well, preventing us from assimilating and becoming white like the formerly non-white immigrant groups from Europe did. / In response many Asian Americans have chosen to be consistent and principled internationalists – we have known that our situation here will not improve unless people of color abroad defeat U.S. Empire. Others have bought into U.S. empire, claiming they are the “good” Asians, unlike those “bad” Asians over there who are prone to terrorism, fanaticism, Communism, or Islam. And of course US Empire has exported aspects of North American settlerist ideology to Asia, which is why so many of our aunties and uncles over there are scared of Black Americans even though they have never met any. / In order to understand Asian American struggles we need to keep both of these systems of white supremacy in our headlights. We can’t adopt the all-too-common view that race in America is a simple binary of white over Black. Social relations in the U.S. are deeply shaped by U.S. imperialism in Asia, our peoples’ resistance to it, and our own struggles here in North America. But at the same time, we can’t pretend we’re in a national liberation struggle somewhere in Asia where we are the majority, we are in the Western Hemisphere where our lives are forged in the Black-indigenous-white crucible and we need to seek our allies and define our enemies within this context.

====1ac plan==== 

**Thus Allan and I advocate breaking the prison bars of the resolution.**

====1ac solvency==== 

The 1AC acts as a coalition against white supremacy. We interrogate interlocking genealogies to examine the way that white supremacy operates as a transportation policy in and of itself, whether this be in the transportation of Chinese labor across the US, the transportation of US soldiers across Asia or the movement from prisons at home to prisons abroad.
Jalan Journal of Asian Liberation, 2008, “Asians Against White Supremacy,” http://jalanjournal.org/2008/09/asians-against-white-supremacy/
The fundamental forms of anti-Asian racism emerged because of labor competition between Asian workers and white workers who viewed Asians as backwards and submissive. / To understand why this happened we need to look at a key moment in the formation of both settlerism and imperialism: the late 1800s and early 1900s, when Asian Americans first began to arrive in large numbers as miners, farmers, workers, and rebels. At this time the U.S. was going through the industrial revolution, unleashing forces of capitalist accumulation with a voracious appetite for land, resources, and labor. To fulfill this appetite, soldiers and settlers were moving westward looting and plundering American Indian and Chicano lands at a breakneck pace. The wealth they wrenched from their genocidal drive to the Pacific was delivered, dripping in blood, as the down-payment for the new factories, plants, and shipyards that formed the bedrock of emerging U.S. imperial power in Latin America and Asia. / All of this involved mobilizing and exploiting human labor at an unprecedented scale. American settlerist mythology describes the conquest of the West as a something led by individualistic small property owners: farmers, cowboys, merchants, prospectors, etc., who supposedly represent the soul of American democracy. But digging goldmines, boring through mountains to build transcontinental railroads, and similar enterprises required a level of organization that rugged individualists alone could not accomplish and capital that only large corporations and the federal government could provide. Soon enough big companies shunted aside the pioneers and hired mass gangs of workers at the lowest wages they could possibly impose. This was the birth day of the America we know today, where our dreams are of cowboy glory and our day jobs are full of monotonous toil under the watch of bureaucrats. / The corporations were looking for workers who could be compelled to accept slave-like wages and conditions without revolt. They turned to two sources. The first consisted of European immigrant workers from the east coast who had found themselves thrown into unemployment and poverty through economic crisis. The second consisted of former Asian farmers dislocated by the European and U.S. imperialism that was ravaging their homes (e.g. the Opium War and the genocidal Philippine-American war). But neither of these groups proved to be a well-disciplined or docile workforce, and it turned out that the only way to neutralize them was to pit the former against the latter. / The European immigrants were lured west with dreams of becoming self-made men- owning property and eventually becoming capitalists. Their dream was a mirage; they were sorely disappointed and were seething with anger. Those who had established small businesses were getting out-competed by the big corporations. And new unskilled workers who arrived from east coast slums found dangerous, low paying jobs their only option. / White supremacist politicians, craft union bureaucrats, businessmen, and many white skilled workers joined together to make Asian workers scapegoats for these frustrations; the Chinese community, which was the largest Asian ethnic group at the time, became their primary victim. They deflected the anger of small proprietors away from the big corporations and against their Chinese workers, arguing that the corporations’ reliance on cheap Chinese labor gave them an unfair advantage over smaller businesses. They also claimed that “civilized” white Americans should not have to compete in a labor market with “backwards” and “weak” “Orientals.” This allowed the skilled white workers and their craft unions to deflect the demands of unskilled European laborers for training and entry into the trades. The unskilled workers were told Chinese immigrants, not the corrupt and elitist craft unions and bosses were to blame for their plight. All of this allowed expanding US capitalism to solidify control over the workforce, neutralizing potential trouble from the unskilled white workers by co-opting them into white supremacy and neutralizing the Chinese workers by subjecting them to vigilante terror. / These anti-Chinese campaigns were a key moment in the construction of that bloody line between white and nonwhite in America. Part of the logic of settlerism was the deputization of rank and file white workers into a vigilante force that could aid the state in dispossessing and murdering American Indians and Chicanos. This logic was extended against Asians as bands of armed vigilantes attacked Chinese folks and drove them out of gold mines, orchards, and small towns across the West. Between 1850 and 1906, Chinatowns burned to the ground and thousands of Chinese were killed, forced into prostitution, or marched to railroad cars and driven out, sometimes along the very tracks they and built. It was a campaign of wholesale ethnic cleansing. / Eventually, this vigilante force was legalized in the form of a whole complex of Jim-crow-style legislation that forbade Asians from owning land, testifying against white men in court and attending public schools, etc. It all culminated in the passing of the Chinese Exclusion Act which attempted to prevent any further Chinese immigration. / Early Filipino- Americans faced similar conditions. For example, there were anti-Filipino riots against Filipinos in Yakima and Wenatchee valleys in Washington, and Filipinos were driven out of Yakima in 1928. Japanese Americans also faced segregation from public schools and were attacked by racist mobs in San Francisco in 1907. / The ideologues leading these campaigns justified them by describing Asian workers as docile, dirty, backwards, and undemocratic. They were painted as conformist, traditional people unfit for a world of hearty American pioneer individualism. Many of these stereotypes remain today. (Of course, in cases where they had managed to set up their own businesses or farms, the script was flipped and Asians were portrayed as uppity, cunning devils who must have some trick up their sleeve). / In reality, the white workers were just as dirty, poor and miserable as Asian American workers, but they were bamboozled into hugging the chains of their own wretchedness rather than fighting back against their real enemies. They were the ones who succumbed to the manipulations of anti-democratic ideologues and if anyone was swept mindlessly into mob conformity it was them. They were tricked into siding with their bosses and decadent, conservative craft unions rather than joining with Asian workers who could have been their natural allies in building a more democratic America. / Of course, this is not to say that all classes of Asian Americans were automatically democratic. Emerging elites in Asian American communities also exploited our peoples ruthlessly. For example, Chinese workers were oppressed by powerful businessmen and labor brokers such as the Chinese Six Companies on the West Coast. These cartels collaborated with white supremacists to deliver coolie workers under slave-like conditions to American corporations. They worked with other Chinese elites that controlled political dissent in Chinese communities and maintained highly patriarchal and semi-feudal patronage networks backed up by thugs. / But despite these restraints, Asian American workers proved themselves to be anything but backwards and naturally slavish. They lived the classic American experience of being thrown into a rootless, violent new context and improvising strategies of survival and resistance. During the anti-Chinese pogroms, Chinese Americans organized boycotts, lawsuits, popular militias for armed self-defense, appeals to China for arms, and mass civil disobedience against attempts to get them to wear photo ID cards. / At times, Asian American workers found solidarity with Euro-American, Chicano, Black, and Native American workers in the IWW, a radical union that fought the bosses and the racist and corrupt American Federation of Labor. Japanese workers organized alongside Mexican workers in Oxnard CA, and Japanese-led labor organizing and strikes on Hawaiian sugar plantations attempted to break down the divide-and conquer management system that allocated wages based on ethnicity to create resentment between different Asian groups. Pioneering Filippino activists such as Philip Vera Cruz and Carlos Bulosan also organized alongside Arab and Latino farm workers to create the strong United Farmworkers Union in the 1960s. Enduring much physical and economic duress, the farmworkers managed to go on strike and organized a four-year long grape boycott to push for higher wages and better working conditions. / These moments of resistance are often overlooked chapters in the struggle for democracy and anti-racism in the U.S. They offer important lessons for us today where the American dream is once again dissolving into unemployment, economic crisis, dislocation, and faceless bureaucracy. Once again, right-wing populist/white supremacist politicians and militias are emerging to blame all of this on immigrant workers. Latinos are the primary targets for now, and for reasons we explain below Asian Americans could also be targeted in the future. We can look to this early Asian American resistance for insight into how we can fight back today. / The Perpetual Foreigner Myth / Despite these heroic struggles, Asian American workers and principled multiracial labor organizations were numerically outnumbered. Eventually, Asian Americans were barred from many industries and forced to live in ghettoes (Chinatowns, Manillatowns, little Tokoyos etc). Although Asian Americans used these communities to build networks of mutual aid and protection from white supremacy, this ghettoization limited their ability to impact broader American politics through multiracial labor struggles and cultural production. / This is partly the material basis for the myth that Asian Americans are perpetual foreigners. Having ethnically cleansed and concentrated Asian American populations, white supremacists turned around and argued that Asians liked to keep to themselves, that we are just visitors or squatters here who are loyal to our homelands and not to America. They see our cultures as strange and exotic, fundamentally incompatible with American democracy. / This perpetual foreigner myth was reinforced by the machinery of U.S. Empire, which was expanding into Asia. To justify its conquests, the imperialists argued that Asians had an exotic, decadent, and outdated civilization that needed to be supplanted by Western modernity. Rudyard Kipling’s notorious poem the “White Man’s Burden” was about this conquest, and it described Filipinos as ungrateful heathens, “half devil, half child.” He is only one of many examples. These views of Asians as an exotic and backwards civilization were applied to Asian Americans as well, and our ongoing segregation has been justified over and over again with the excuse that we will never be able to participate fully in American civic life. / The perpetual foreigner myth reached a crescendo during World War II when the U.S. government portrayed the entire Japanese-American community as a ticking suicide bomb ready to go off in support of Japan. They rounded up thousands of Japanese families and put them in concentration camps. The perpetual foreigner myth is still alive today as neoconservative pundits portray South and Southeast Asian-American Muslims as a fifth column ready to pollute America with Jihadi terror, vampirish patriarchy, and religious fanaticism. Of course, some Asian Americans buy into this malicious propaganda by arguing that those other Asians, not us good suck ups, are the real, perpetual enemy aliens. The notorious Michelle Malkin who wrote the book, “In Defense of Internment: The case for ‘Racial Profiling’ in World War II and the War on Terror” is one such example. / This perpetual foreigner myth is gendered: white supremacist efforts to define Asians as strange and exotic are often fought over the bodies of Asian women. Before the Western colonists arrived, Asian societies had a wide diversity of gendered institutions from the rigid patriarchy of imperial Chinese Confucianism to the relatively matriarchal norms of Southeast Asia and southern India. Yet everywhere they went, these colonists set out to create reflections of their own patriarchal societies. In Burma, British colonialists found themselves interacting with powerful women leaders. They argued that the equality or even dominance women enjoyed there was a mark of Burmese society’s barbarism. They eagerly tried to “civilize” these “exotic” women by training Burmese men to dominate them. / Ironically, in the 20th century the imperialists flipped their script. Now they like to portray Asian societies as strange and backwards because of their supposedly more “traditional” patriarchy. We are constantly exposed to images of veiled Pakistani or Afghani women and the neoconservatives would have us believe that the war on terror is being fought to liberate these women from the grips of Islamic repression. What they never mention is that the U.S. has often supported the most patriarchal despots in Asia from Park Chung Hee in Korea to the Northern Alliance in Afghanistan. / While the US military is busy “liberating” Asian women, its soldiers and sailors stationed at the military bases in Asia sometimes rape local women and get away with it under Status of Forces agreements reminiscent of colonial concessions. Prostitution, sex tourism, and human trafficking rings from Thailand to the Philippines have sprung up to provide “rest and relaxation” to US soldiers and tropical getaways for US businessmen. Associated advertising and pornography outfits turn this material reality into the myth of the hyper-sexual exotic Asian woman. / While some white supremacists claim they are coming to Asia to liberate its women, others appeal to the patriarchy of American capitalism and attempt to pimp out Asian women as supposedly traditional, docile, unliberated peasants who will make good sweatshop workers, mail order brides, and prostitutes. This logic has helped build an Asian underclass inside the U.S. When these women resist and sabotage their bosses’ efforts they are subjected to assault or are detained and deported. / The model minority myth / Today this underclass is rendered invisible and this history of Asian American working class resistance is suppressed. Both inside and outside our communities, Asian Americans are now portrayed as middle class, upwardly mobile, hard working techies. Our classmates assume we are naturally smart and politicians assume we are naturally conservative. / These new stereotypes also have a dark history behind them. In 1965, the US was facing pressures from the civil rights movement at home and the cold war abroad. In an attempt to improve its poor image as the world’s greatest racist, the U.S. government relaxed some of it’s explicitly race-based immigration laws and began to allow more Asian immigrants to come over. / Unlike at the turn of the century when they needed cheap workers, in the 60s the U.S. capitalists faced a crisis of overproduction and unemployment due to massive automation of U.S. factories. However they did have a large demand for trained technicians, scientists, and engineers who could help run and update this automated machinery, and they were competing with the USSR for scientific talent to promote military supremacy. Given this context, the 1965 immigration act only allowed in the educated, skilled Asians and continued to bar unskilled Asian workers. This also contributed to a brain drain in Asian countries that now lost the skilled doctors and scientists who had received state subsidized training for their capabilities. / This arrangement proved useful to the ideologues of white supremacy. They began to argue that Asians were a “model minority” because they had supposedly pulled themselves up by their bootstraps through education and hard work. The disproportionate number of Asian technicians and professionals who had arrived at the US through the state’s capitalist immigration policies, was ahistorically attributed to Asian values of hard work and family. The implication here is that other minorities are problem minorities – that Latinos and especially Blacks remain poor because of their supposedly inferior culture, laziness, or lack of intelligence, and not 500 years of settlerism, slavery, Jim Crow, and discrimination. At a time when the Black Power movement was shaking up American society and galvanizing young working class Asian Americans to side with Blacks in the struggle against white supremacy, this emerging model minority myth was deployed to divide Asians from Blacks and delegitimize the Black revolt. / The model minority myth is destructive not only because it sets us against other people of color but also because it erases our own legacies of working class struggle. By presenting Asian Americans as inherently middle class it obscures the key histories outlined above, denying us democratic and anti-racist heroes and organizational precedents from our own communities. It also renders invisible the significant and growing Asian American working class today. From undocumented Chinese and Filipino workers to Cambodian, Vietnamese, and Laotian refugees from the terror of the US war in their homelands, this myth leaves out some of the most important and dynamic Asian American communities- the very folks who are a waging key struggles today against police brutality, homeland security raids, and deportation orders. / The model minority myth could not have lasted if it were simply a white racist fantasy propagated by media portrayals of Asians. It was solidified because upwardly mobile middle class leaders in some of our own communities have bought into it. As soon as possible they moved out of the ghetto and into the suburbs and they tried to train their kids to fear and pity other people of color. Many of our parents continue to buy into this myth because in their eyes it jives with some of their own chauvinistic thinking about essential “Asian” values of hard work and family discipline (expressed through very American and very capitalist reinterpretation of Confucianism, Hinduism, etc.). For them being the model minority also means maintaining patriarchy, regulating their kids’ sexuality, and keeping them away from the more dynamic (and less white!) aspects of American culture such as hip hop. It is the task of our generation to break this middle-class stronghold that has dominated Asian Americans today. / In this sense, our struggles against the model minority myth today are not just struggles against the white supremacist media and immigration systems; they are also struggles for women’s’ liberation, workers’ self management, sexual and gender freedom, and antiracism in our own communities. As more Asian workers begin to immigrate and as our generation of young Asian Americans begin to identify more with other people of color, the model minority myth could be shaken up.

In this way, our 1AC should be seen as a seed of universality. Our particular demand can link up with other speech acts to form a new left challenge to hegemonic consensus.
Ernesto Laclau, published 2k (professor of political theory, University of Essex, “Contingency, Hegemony, Universality,” pg. 306 >:)
There is no politics without the creation of political frontiers, but creating such frontiers is more difficult when one cannot rely on stable entities (such as the 'classes' of Marxist discourse) but has to construct through political action the very social entities which have to be emancipated. This, how-ever, is the political challenge of our age. Its contours become more visible if we confront them with the most obvious temptations to elude politics which haunt us: to do away with social division and antagonisms in the name of a conflict-less society - the Third Way, the radical centre (there are no right-wing or left-wing economic policies, only good ones, as the inimitable Tony Blair has asserted); to take refuge in exclusively defensive politics, leaving aside any strategic thought about changing today's hegemonic balance of forces; to abandon political struggle altogether and to continue repeating old Marxist formulas which have become empty metaphysical propositions, with little connection with what is actually happening in the world. / There is no future for the Left if it is unable to create an expansive universal discourse, constructed out of, not against, the proliferation of particularisms of the last few decades. A dimension of universality is already operating in the discourses which organize particular demands and an issue-orientated politics, but it is an implicit and undeveloped universality, incapable of proposing itself as a set of symbols able to stir the imagination of vast sectors of the population. The task ahead is to expand those seeds of universality, so that we can have a full social imaginary, capable of competing with the neoliberal consensus which has been the hegemonic horizon of world politics for the last thirty years. It is certainly a difficult task, but it is one which, at least, we can properly formulate. To do so is already to have won a first important battle.

And, our standardized, colorblind form of pedagogy incarcerates youth of color and forces us into a prison locked by government policies that desensitizes individuals, producing an encaged society that devastates our educational sphere
Giroux 2001 [Henry A, lobal Television Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies., Founding theorist of critical pedagogy, “Public Spaces, Private Lives: Democracy Beyond 9/11” pg xi-xiii=]
Paradoxically, the moral panic against crime that increasingly feeds the calls for punishments rather than rehabilitation programs for young people exists in conjuction with the disturbing facts that United States is currently one of only seven countries (Congo, Iran, Nigeria, Pakisatan, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen) in the world that permit the death penalty for juveniles and that, in the last decade, it has executed more juvenile offenders than all other countries combined that allow such executions. Given the assumption among neoliberal hardliners that market values are most important than values that involve trust, compassion, and solidarity, it is not surprising that Wall Street, which emphasizes profits, views the growth in the prison industry and the growing incarceration of young people as good news. For instance, even though “Crime has dropped precipitously,” stock analyst Bob Hirschfield notes that “males 15-17 years old are three times as likely to be arrested than the population at large, and the proportion of 15-17 year old is expanding at twice the overall population.” Rather than being alarmed, if not morally repulsed, by these figures, Hirschfield concludes that it is a “Great time to purchase shares” in the new prison growth industry. While the social constructs for such policies are cause for grave alarm, they are all the more disturbing since the burden they inflict upon society appears to be far greater for young people of color than for any other group. The national Criminal Justice Commission Report claims that while “get touch” policies are likely to be more severe when dealing with children, they are particularly repressive when applies to youth of color, especially as a result of the war on drugs and the more recent eruption of school shootings. Numerous studies have documented that, unlike middle-class white youth, minority youth are “more likely to be arrested, referred to court, and placed outside the home when awaiting disposition of their cases…[Moreover] all things being equal, minority youths face criminal charges more often than white youths for the same offenses. Also, African American youths are charged more often than whites with a felony when the offense could be considered a misdemeanor…..Minority youth are also more likely to be waved to adult court, where they will face longer sentences and fewer opportunities for rehabilitees programs.” Fed by widespread stereotypical images of black youth as super predators and black culture as the culture of criminality, minority youth face not only a criminal justice system that harasses and humiliates them but also a larger society that increasingly undercuts their chances for a living wage, quality jobs, essential social services, and decent schools. Within such a context, the possibilities for treating young people of color with respect, dignity, and support vanishes and, with it, the hope of overcoming a racial abyss that makes a mockery out of justice and a travesty oldenioc racy. The growing influence of zero tolerance laws in the United States can he seen in the application of such laws in areas as different as airport security, the criminal justice system, immigration policy, and drug testing programs for athletes. The widespread use of these policies has received a substantial amount of critical analysis within the last decade. Unfortunately, these analy ses rarely make connections between what is going on in the criminal justice system and the public \While schools share some proximity to prisons in that they are both about disciplining the body, though for allegedly different purposes, little has been written about how zero tolerance policies in schools resonate powerfully with prison practices that signify a shift away from treating the body as a social investment (i.e., rehabilitation) to viewing it as a threat to security, demanding control, surveillance, and punishment.TM Also, little has been written on how such practices have exceeded the bound arise of the prison-industrial complex, providing models and perpetuating a shift in the very nature of educational leadership and pedagogy. Of course, shift in the very nature of educational leadership and pedagogy. Of course, there are exceptions, such as Lewis Lapham’s lament that schools do more than teach students to take their place within a highly iniquitous class-based society. In many larger cities, according to Lapham, high schools now “possess many of the same attributes as minimum-security prisons—metal detectors in the corridors, zero tolerance for rowdy behavior, the principal as a warden and the faculty familiar with the syllabus of concealed weapons.” According to lapham, schools resemble prisons in that they both warehouse students to prevent flooding the labor market while simultaneously “instilling the attitudes of passivity and apprehension, which in turn induce the fear of authority and the habits of obedience.”6 Another notable and insightful exception is Manning Marable who argues that “[o]ne of the central battle grounds for democracy in che U.S. in the twenty-first century will be the effort to halt the dismantling of public education and public institutions in general fôr the expansion of Lthe] prison-industrial complex.” As schooling is defined largely as a disciplinary institution that prepares students for the workplace, the discourse of leadership has been superseded by a pragmatics of classroom management. Similarly, pedagogy often ignores the specificity of contexts that informs students’ lives and substitutes issues of accountability (measured through test scores) for a qualitative interest in producing critical citizens. Moreover, such pedagogics of transmission are particularly intolerant of notions of difference, critical questioning, or resistance. Pedagogy in this model of control relics heavily on those Forms of standardization and values that are consistent with the norms and relations that drive the market economy. Teachers teach for the tests as students’ behaviors are consistently monitored, and knowledge is increasingly quantified. Made over in the image of corporate culture, schools are no longer valued as a public good but as a private interest; hence, the appeal of such schools is less in their capacity to educae students according to the demands of critical citizenship than in enabling students to master the requirements of a market driven economy. Under these circumstances, many students increasingly find themselves in schools that lack any Language for relating the self to public life, social responsibility, or the imperatives of democratic life. In this instance, democratic education, with its emphasis on respect for others, critical inquiry, civic courage, and concern for the collective good, is suppressed and replaced by an excessive emphasis on the language of privatization, individualism, self- interest, and brutal competitiveness. Lost in this discourse of schooling is any notion of democratic community or models of leadership capable of raising questions about what public schools should accomplish in a democracy and why, tinder certain circumstances, they fail.

==freight rail affirmative== 
===1ac pennsbury=== 
====1ac plan==== 

**United States federal government should substantially increase its freight rail infrastructure investment in the United States.**

**We’ll clarify.**

====1ac freight overload==== 

Population crunch means increase in freight demand is inevitable – new infrastructure’s key but businesses need help
Treasury 3-23-12 (The Department of the Treasury is responsible for analyzing and reporting on current and prospective economic developments in the U.S. and world economies and assisting in the determination of appropriate economic policies. Treasury conducts research to assist in the formulation and articulation of public policies and positions of the Department on a wide range of microeconomic issues, “A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT,” http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf ;)
The merits of infrastructure investments must also be considered alongside projections of population growth, trading patterns, and expected changes in American lifestyles. As the economy and population grow, infrastructure resources will be stretched thinner as existing systems age and additional needs for new systems arise. With the U.S. population expected to grow to almost 440 million people by 2050 and interstate commerce expected to grow as well, targeted infrastructure investments can be one strategic tool that policymakers use to prepare for the future. American firms rely on infrastructure to enable efficient supply chain management and the transportation of goods to the point of sale. Investments in transportation infrastructure would allow firms in all 50 states to have the opportunity to benefit from growth in foreign markets. According to an analysis by the Brookings Institution, exports account for 8 percent of total U.S. employment; [and] smart investments in infrastructure have the potential to create more jobs in export-oriented U.S. companies. The President’s National Export Initiative calls for the “Departments of Commerce and Transportation [to enter] into a Memorandum of Understanding to work together and with stakeholders to develop and implement a comprehensive, competitiveness-focused national freight policy. The resulting policy will foster end-to-end U.S. freight infrastructure improvements that facilitate the movement of goods for export and domestic use.” Moreover, the Department of Transportation “estimates that population growth, economic development, and trade will almost double the demand for rail freight transportation by 2035.”50 Export growth has been strong during the recovery. In 2011, export ts were up over 33 percent from 2009, meaning that America is ahead of schedule in meeting the President’s goal of doubling exports over 2009 levels by the end of 2014. The business and labor communities have also expressed a desire for more transportation infrastructure investment. Proposals from the American Public Transport Association (APTA), the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, AFL-CIO, and the President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness all call for greater infrastructure investment. APTA advocates for nearly $15 billion of investment for federal public transportation programs, and at least $2.5 billion to be put towards high-speed and intercity rail systems. AASHTO reported in 2009 that between $132 billion and $166 billion of investment is necessary to rebuild and repair America’s highways.51 The view that more transportation infrastructure is necessary is consistent with other research, including the recently issued bipartisan report by two former Secretaries of Transportation, Norman Mineta and Samuel Skinner. Their report estimated that an additional investment of $134 billion to $194 billion per year is needed to maintain our transportation system, and an even larger sum, from $189 billion to $262 billion, would be needed to improve it.52 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has stated that “to have a transportation system that supports a 21st century economy, the United States needs a high level of investment targeted at improving performance across all modes and geographies. There can be no more business as usual.”

Status quo rail congestion will collapse the global supply chain.
BAF 2011 (Building America’s Future, A national, bipartisan coalition dedicated to infrastructure investment and reform, February 2011, “Falling Apart and Falling Behind,” http://www.bafuture.com/sites/default/files/Report_0.pdf ;)
In the 21st century, globalization has radically changed the economy and the world’s trade patterns, while shifting and intensifying the demands we place on our transportation network. Trade between the U.S. and other countries increased by 13% a year between 2003 and 2008. Economic growth now depends on American businesses’ ability to participate in this growing global trade, and moving freight cheaply, easily, and reliably is now more directly related to the overall health of our economy than ever. As much as 60% of American-made products are now exported, and so the success of the manufacturing sector depends on our ability to export what we make here and sell it in the global marketplace. Billions of dollars’ worth of goods move around this country every day, by rail, truck, and air, to and from manufacturing plants, packaging centers, warehouses and distribution facilities, cargo airports and international shipping terminals. The supply chain now spans the globe, and a significant contributor to the American economy is the ability to transport goods cheaply, efficient¬ly, and reliably across national corridors to and from international gateways. An explosion in shipping from China has fundamentally altered global shipping patterns and increased congestion at major U.S. ports. The expansion of the Panama Canal currently underway will direct more mega-ships from Asia directly to our east coast ports—but only if they are deep enough to accommodate the new supertankers. The surge in global trade is expanding and realigning American business transportation needs. International merchandise and goods are now transported in shipping containers, which can be moved, packed full of goods, and directly transferred from a ship to a truck or a train. New trade features and patterns are straining access to and from ports, increasing the need for sophisti¬cated logistics to oversee more complicated supply chains, and making “intermodal”—involving one or more types of transport—the new necessity for 21st-century freight transportation. This is how business is done in the 21st century, but the U.S. is falling behind. Our freight transportation system was not built for the explosive growth of coast-to-coast shipping and international trade experienced over the past two decades, and our economically vital gateways and corridors—our primary port, road, and rail routes for shipping goods in and out of the country—now operate[s] at or over capacity. Congestion plagues our freight corridors and acts as a drag on the American economy as a whole. In Chicago, the nation’s biggest rail center, congestion is so bad that it takes a freight train longer to get through the city limits than it does to get to Los Angeles. Freight bottlenecks and other forms of congestion cost about $200 billion, or 1.6% of the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP), a year.4 Freight moving by water is slowed by similar constraints on capacity and limitations of aging infrastructure. Our ports were built for the last century’s economy, without suffi¬cient intermodal access for increased container traffic. Our inland waterways are similarly overburdened: dozens of locks along major inland shipping routes are past their 50-year life span, and some are more than a century old and showing their age. Congestion and capacity constraints threaten to increase the cost of trade and impede our global competitiveness. Delays in freight movement impose real costs on businesses that reduce productivity, impede our competitiveness, and increase prices for consumers. General Mills estimates that every one mile per hour reduction in average speed of its trucking shipments below posted limits adds $2 million in higher annual costs.5 According to UPS, if conges¬tion causes each UPS delivery driver to incur 5 minutes of delay, it would cost the company $100 million.6 To cope with capacity constraints, business¬es also devote an increasing amount of resources to logistics and supply chain management. American companies’ logistics costs—the costs of moving goods, including transportation, warehouse, and distribution costs—fell through the 1980s and 90s, but over the past decade they have been rising as a percent of GDP, peaking in 2008 at 9.4%.7 The on-site cost of mining metallurgical coal in North America may be the same as in Australia, but the cost of shipping it to the coasts to export to Asia is up to 4 times greater due to transportation and logistical costs.8 The costs of an overtaxed transportation network are bound to get worse as more and more freight moves through the system. Demand for freight rail shipments is increasing at a steady clip: freight tonnage is projected to increase 88% by 2035. By 2020, every major U.S. container port is pro¬jected to at least double the volume of cargo it was designed to handle. Some East Coast ports will triple in volume, and some West Coast ports will quadruple.10 We risk debilitating consequences if we don’t figure out how to accommodate this rising demand. And it’s not just business that has changed faster than our infrastructure. America’s transportation network is not set up to accommodate the needs of our 21st-century lives. Passenger travel is expected to rise as the economy recovers and our population grows, with total vehicle-miles traveled likely to increase by 80% in the next 30 years.11 An additional one billion commercial air passengers are expected to fly each year by 2015, a 36% increase from 2006.12 The vast majority of this increased traffic will occur in the urban centers and surround¬ing suburbs where the U.S. population—and its economic activity—is overwhelmingly concentrated. The 100 largest U.S. metro¬politan regions house almost two-thirds of the population and generate nearly three-quarters of our GDP. In 47 states—even those traditionally considered ‘rural,’ like Nebraska, Kansas, and Iowa—the majority of GDP is generated in metropolitan areas.13 And over the next 20 years, 94% of the nation’s economic growth will occur in metropolitan areas.14 Metropolitan areas are already home to the most congested highways, the oldest roads and bridges, and the most overburdened transit systems—and the strains on the transportation system are only bound to get worse. By 2035, an estimated 70 million more people will live in U.S. metropolitan regions. More people bring more commerce and greater transportation demands. Every American accounts for about 40 tons of freight to be hauled each year—so an additional 2.8 billion tons of freight will be moved to and from major metropolitan regions in 2035.15 Our transportation system is simply not up to the task. Our transportation system has also not adapted to the energy realities of the 21st century. Air pollution and carbon emissions—the majority of which in the United States are generated by transporta¬tion—threaten the environment. Reliance on foreign oil has imperiled our national security. And fluctuating gas prices are making Americans’ car-dependent lifestyles simply unaffordable. We are increasingly aware that for all these reasons a trans-portation system largely run on gasoline is environmentally and economically unsustainable. In a global economy, businesses need access to manufacturing plants and distribution centers, to international gateways like ports and airports, and to consumers in both metropolitan and rural regions. People need reliable and efficient ways to commute to work and go about their daily lives. We need a modern infrastructure system if we are to meet both needs. And if we don’t create a transportation system that functions reliably and cost-effectively in the 21st century, companies operating in this globalized world can simply choose to do their business elsewhere—taking U.S. jobs and revenues with them.

Improving rail capacity is critical – that’s key to the global trade flow
Horsley 11 (John, Executive director of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, “Freight-Rail Bottom Line Report,” pdf ;)
Freight-rail service provides a critical link in the nation’s intermodal freight transportation system, serving the trucking and maritime shipping industries, and supporting the nation’s international trade and global competitiveness. The rail and trucking industries are competitors, but they are also partners. Unless a rail move is “door-to-door,” it begins or ends with a truck move. This could involve the transfer of an intermodal container or the transfer of bulk and carload commodities via transload or transflow operations. Rail and trucking companies are partnering to provide integrated door-to-door intermodal services that optimize the relative strengths and efficiencies of each mode. The chairman of the nation’s largest truckload carrier states, “Rail is low-cost where there is sufficient density on a lane. This is fundamentally a fact of life. Let’s make [rail and truck] technologies work together and use them where appropriate. We have worked with our rail partners very effectively.”11 The Norfolk Southern Railroad estimates that 40 percent of its non-coal freight moves by truck. Seaports rely on rail to provide them with connections to shippers and receivers of bulk, carload, and “hinterland” intermodal freight. Rail typically represents between 10 and 50 percent of a port’s landside traffic by tonnage. Certain ports are especially dependent on rail. These include coal and grain ports (since unit train is the preferred method of moving these goods); ports handling high volumes of chemicals, oils, lumber, paper, and other carload commodities; and major container gateways that serve large inland markets via “landbridge” operations. These connections may be regional in nature (such as the rail link between the coal fields of Appalachia and the marine terminals in Hampton Roads, Virginia), or they may be national in nature (such as the rail link that allows containerized goods from the Far East to be imported through the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach and moved across the country to the New York/New Jersey market). FREIGHT–RAIL BOTTOM LINE REPORT Ports compete to attract the business of ocean carriers and major shippers. These carriers and shippers look very closely at the inland distribution costs associated with ports-of-call because inland transportation can account for half of the end-to-end cost of an overseas move. Ports that do not offer rail service or that cannot accommodate equipment such as double-stack container cars or heavy bulk cars on key routes are at a competitive disadvantage in attracting and retaining business. As a result, many ports are taking the lead role in making rail access improvements. The most visible example to date is the recently opened Alameda Corridor, which serves the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles. The ports, in cooperation with local, regional, and state governments, developed and implemented a $2.4 billion dollar plan to consolidate the operations of three freight lines and reduce local trucking between port and rail facilities. The result is a single, triple-tracked, fully grade-separated, 20-mile intermodal freight-rail corridor. About half the funding is derived from bonds secured by freight-rail revenues; the remainder is a combination of loans, grants, and tax proceeds. The public benefits of the project included strengthening the economic value of the ports, reducing truck traffic and engine emissions, eliminating congestion at rail-grade crossings, and reconnecting neighborhoods once divided by the rail lines. By serving the nation’s seaports, rail becomes a critical element in the nation’s access to global markets and supports U.S. producers and consumers in the world economy. Rail also provides access across land borders to Canada and Mexico. While trucks sit in queues at borders awaiting inspection and clearance, trains that are pre-cleared and electronically tracked can cross the border at full speed without stopping. According to the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics, surface trade with Canada and Mexico was valued at over $575 billion dollars in 2000. Rail was responsible for over $94 billion dollars or 16 percent of this trade. Just five border crossings — Port Huron, Michigan; Laredo, Texas; Buffalo-Niagara Falls, New York; Detroit, Michigan; and International Falls-Ranier, Minnesota — account for 80 percent of rail-borne international trade by value.

Breakdown of global transportation cause extinction and turns all their impacts
Dempsey 2k (Paul Stephen, Professor of Law and Director of the Transportation Law Program at University of Denver, Director of the National Center for Intermodal Transportation, former attorney for the Interstate Commerce Commission and the US Civil Aeronautics Board, Summer 2000, 27 Transp. L. J. 367, Lexis Nexis)
As the gateways to an increasingly global market, transportation corridors are the arteries through which we and everything we consume flow. Transportation networks stimulate trillions of dollars in trade, c3ommerce, and tourism. In a global economy, they enable specialization in the production of goods and services which, under the law of comparative advantage, stimulates broader economic growth. By shrinking the planet, transportation also facilitates the intermingling and integration of disparate economies and cultures. Cultural interaction enhances international understanding which promotes global peace which, in a thermonuclear world, is essential for survival of our species. It offers hope for the creation of a global village of friends and neighbors rather than enemies and adversaries. Cultural interaction also stimulates intellectual social and artistic creativity, making the world a more interesting and richer place in which to live. As a fundamental component of the infrastructure upon which economic growth is built - the veins and arteries of commerce, communications, and national defense - a healthy transportation system serving the public's needs for ubiquitous service at reasonable prices is vitally important to region and the nation it serves. It is for this reason that governments the world over have promoted, encouraged, and facilitated its provision by providing essential infrastructure, research and development, protective regulation, subsidies and, on occasion, outright ownership. Historically, government has facilitated transportation by guiding the airports, the seaports, the rail and transit lines, subsidized their operations where necessary, and established the basic codes and rules under which the industry serves the public. If done thoughtfully and well, government planning can facilitate creation of an efficient and productive transportation infrastructure better able to satisfy the broader needs of the public for safe, secure, seamless, expeditious and reasonably priced transportation service. The tourism and travel business is arguably the world's largest industry. It accounts for 5.5% of the world's GNP, 12.9% of consumer spending, 7.2% of worldwide capital investment, and 127 million jobs, employing one in every 15 workers. The ripple effect of transportation activity - the indirect and induced economic and employment stimulation - is vastly larger than the prices paid directly by passengers or shippers. Transportation creates and transports wealth far in excess of its own facial value. In other words, the tacit benefits of economic stimulation created by transportation networks far exceeds its costs. In this sense, transportation has profound externalities, both positive and negative. For example, a city with abundant airline, motor carrier and railroad networks radiating from it like the spokes of a wheel, enjoys a wide economic catchment area stimulating trade, commerce and wealth for its citizens. Conversely, a community with poor, declining or deteriorating access to the established and prevailing transportation networks will wither like a human limb or organ starved of oxygen by an artery made impassable by a tenacious blood clot. On a macroeconomic level, these observations are true for all nations and all regions, and arguably for all time. An expeditious, efficient, and economical transportation network will facilitate the public's need for mobility and will ordinarily advance economic productivity and growth. Conversely, a deteriorating transportation infrastructure will produce sluggishness in overall economic productivity and retard economic growth.

Free trade solves war – empirically proven
Griswold 5 [Daniel, Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282]
Of course, free trade and globalization do not guarantee peace. Hot-blooded nationalism and ideological fervor can overwhelm cold economic calculations. But deep trade and investment ties among nations make war less attractive. Trade wars in the 1930s deepened the economic depression, exacerbated global tensions, and helped to usher in a world war. Out of the ashes of that experience, the United States urged Germany, France and other Western European nations to form a common market that has become the European Union. In large part because of their intertwined economies, a general war in Europe is now unthinkable. In East Asia, the extensive and growing economic ties among Mainland China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan is helping to keep the peace. China's communist rulers may yet decide to go to war over its "renegade province," but the economic cost to their economy would be staggering and could provoke a backlash among its citizens. In contrast, poor and isolated North Korea is all the more dangerous because it has nothing to lose economically should it provoke a war. In Central America, countries that were racked by guerrilla wars and death squads two decades ago have turned not only to democracy but to expanding trade, culminating in the Central American Free Trade Agreement with the United States. As the Stockholm institute reports in its 2005 Yearbook, "Since the 1980s, the introduction of a more open economic model in most states of the Latin American and Caribbean region has been accompanied by the growth of new regional structures, the dying out of interstate conflicts and a reduction in intra-state conflicts." Much of the political violence that remains in the world today is concentrated in the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa -- the two regions of the world that are the least integrated into the global economy. Efforts to bring peace to those regions must include lowering their high barriers to trade, foreign investment, and domestic entrepreneurship. Advocates of free trade and globalization have long argued that trade expansion means more efficiency, higher incomes, and reduced poverty. The welcome decline of armed conflicts in the past few decades indicates that free trade also comes with its own peace dividend.

====1ac peak==== 

Status quo initiatives cannot solve in time – peak oil is coming and will most likely happen before 2020
Kumhof and Muir 12 (Michael and Dirk, Michael Kumhof is the deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Dirk Muir is in the International Monetary Fund’s Research Department and Economic Modeling Division, October 25th 2012, “Oil and the World Economy: Some Possible Futures,” http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/wp/2012/wp12256.pdf ;)
This paper, based on empirical evidence, pays serious attention to the view that geology will at some point in the not-too-distant future start to constrain world oil production, but without taking a stand on the precise year in which this will happen. According to the geological view oil reserves are ultimately ﬁnite, easy-to-access oil is produced ﬁrst, and therefore oil must become harder and more expensive to produce as the cumulative amount of oil already produced grows. According to many scientists that advocate this view, the recently observed stagnant oil production in the face of persistent and large oil price increases is a sign that physical scarcity of oil is already here, or at least imminent, and that it must eventually overwhelm the stimulative eﬀects of higher oil prices on oil production. Furthermore they state, on the basis of extensive studies of alternative technologies and resources, that suitable substitutes for oil simply do not exist on the required scale and over the required horizon , and that technologies to improve oil recovery from existing ﬁelds, and to economize on oil use, must eventually run into limits dictated by the laws of thermodynamics, speciﬁcally entropy. This view of oil supply traces its origins back to the work of M. King Hubbert (1956), a geoscientist who in 1956 correctly predicted that U.S. oil output would peak in 1970. It is discussed in a study produced for the U.S. Department of Energy , Hirsch and others (2005), and in a subsequent book, Hirsch and others (2010). The most thorough scientiﬁc research available on this topic is UK Energy Research Centre (2009), which is succinctly summarized in Sorrell and others (2010). Based on a wealth of geological and engineering evidence, these authors conclude that there is a signiﬁcant risk of a peak in conventional oil production before 2020, with an inexorable decline thereafter. Given that this still allows for a wide range of possible dates for the next major trend break, we will not be speciﬁc concerning the year at which the shock hits the world economy in our simulations.

The peak is coming now and it will lead to a long age of scarcity – immediate action to build resilience is key
Wakeford 12 (Jeremy, senior lecturer in the School of Economics at UCT and is Research Director of the. Association for the Study of Peak Oil South Africa, July 27th 2012, “Peak oil is no myth,” http://www.engineeringnews.co.za/article/peak-oil-is-no-myth-2012-07-27 ;)
Peak oil is not about running out of oil. It refers to the fact that, since oil is a finite resource, the annual rate of production of oil must at some point reach an all-time maximum – a ‘peak’ – and then decline. This empirical phenomenon of peaking has already been observed in about two-thirds of oil producing countries as well as the regions of North America (peaked in 1985) and Europe (peaked in 2000). Global new oil discoveries have been declining since the 1960s and giant oilfields – accounting for some 60% of world supply – are declining at over 6% a year. Production of conventional oil has hardly risen since 2005, even though demand is burgeoning in developing countries. The conference gave considerable attention to unconventional oil – resources like Canada’s tar sands, North Dakota’s shale oil and Vene- zuela’s heavy oil – which cannot be extracted or processed using conventional technologies. The consensus view was that unconventional resources are like a large barrel with a small tap, which means that the crucial flow rate of oil is constrained. Thus, unconventional oil will be unlikely to offset the 4.5% average annual decline rate of conventional oilfields for more than a few years. Moreover, prodigious amounts of energy and capital inputs are needed to extract and refine unconventional oil, which implies a low energy return on investment and a high economic cost – around $100/bl at present. In the words of Scottish geologist Euan Mearns, “peak oil is the game changer, and unconventional oil is the system response”. Dr Robert Hirsch, an energy analyst who produced a seminal report for the US Depart- ment of Energy entitled ‘Peaking world oil production: impacts, mitigation and risk management’, delivered a sobering assessment of how our economies and societies might react to declining oil supplies. He argued that public reactions would likely be similar to responses to the 1970s oil shocks – namely panic, hoarding and long queues at filling stations. He expects oil decline to begin within one to four years and, given the world’s oil-dependent transport infrastructure worth $50-trillion to $100-trillion, electrification of mobility will not yield quick results. If the decline rate is 3% to 4%, Hirsch warns, the economic impact will be “catastrophic”. A similarly disconcerting presen- tation on the geopolitics of oil and gas was given by Professor Michael Klare, the world’s pre-eminent authority on resource-driven conflicts. He noted that nothing has had a closer association to geopolitics than oil, which, for a century, has been crucial for military power. Klare argued that the US’s military strategy is now aimed increasingly at exploiting China’s growing reliance on oil imports, while the US itself enjoys a resurgence – albeit temporary – in domestic oil and gas production. Key hot spots for potential conflict are the Persian Gulf, the Caspian Sea region, the South China Sea and the Arctic. In case you think it was all doom and gloom, some presenters gave bullish visions for a future powered by renewable energy. Europe has been leading the way and now has about 100 000 MW of installed wind power capacity. Jeremy Leggett, convenor of the UK Industry Task Force on Peak Oil and Energy Security, noted that the recent expansion of solar power capacity in the European Union exceeded that of all other new energy sources. As the above snippets have, hopefully, conveyed, peak oil is anything but a ‘myth’. The sooner that citizens, businesspeople and politicians wake up to this reality, the better our chances of building resilience to oil shocks and transitioning to sustainable energy economies.

Descent is probable within the next four years – untapped oil can’t solve since industry can’t produce oil fast enough to meet demand
Leggett 12 (Jeremy, Jeremy Leggett is founder and Chairman of Solarcentury, the UK's largest solar solutions company, and SolarAid, a charity set up with Solarcentury profits. He is author of The Carbon War and Half Gone, “Monbiot says he was wrong on peak oil but the crisis is undeniable,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/blog/2012/jul/04/monbiot-wrong-peak-oil;)
The many misunderstandings he relays begin with the title. There is more than enough potential oil resource below ground to create the climate disaster he refers to. Peak oil is not about that. It is about when global production falls never again to reach past levels: a disaster, if the descent hits an oil-dependent global economy years ahead of expectations. This descent depends on flow rates in oilfields, not the amount of oil left. What worries those who believe the global oil peak is imminent is the evidence that the oil industry will not be able to maintain growing flow rates for much longer. The whistleblowing in the run-up to the credit crunch involved a few maverick economists and some far-sighted financial journalists. The peak-oil whistleblowing is different. Many within the incumbency itself are sounding alarms. Every year, when the Association for the Study of Peak Oil (ASPO) meets, recently retired oilmen queue to give their latest assessments of how their industry is getting its asset assessment wrong. The latest ASPO event was held a few weeks ago in Vienna, which I attended. There has been "a boom in oil production" of late, Monbiot says. Wrong. Global production has been essentially struggling along a plateau since 2004, as Bob Hirsch, an ex-Exxon advisor to the US Department of Energy describes. Hirsch expects the descent to begin in one to four years. Monbiot is correct that there has been a small increase in oil production in the United States in recent years. But can that continue, as he infers? Gas-industry whistleblower Art Berman describes how the shale gas gold-rush of recent years, now extending into shale oil, may well be a giant ponzi scheme: decline rates in wells are unexpectedly fast, meaning more and more have to be drilled at ever more expense, meaning ever more money has to be borrowed against cash flows from production that fall ever further behind. He looks at the resulting disaster in the balance sheets of oil and gas companies, and expects the bankruptcies to start any time soon. John Dizard has also warned of this particular bubble, in the Financial Times.

Diminishing returns make new extraction technology useless
Gail Tverberg, 11-14-12 (Christian Science Monitor, Staff, “An America self-sufficient in oil? Don't bet on it.”, http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/Energy-Voices/2012/1114/An-America-self-sufficient-in-oil-Don-t-bet-on-it :)
One reason the WEO 2012 estimates are unreasonable is because the oil prices shown are unrealistically low relative to the production amounts forecast in the report. This seems to occur because the IEA misses the problem of diminishing returns. As the easy-to-produce oil becomes more depleted, and we need to move to more difficult reservoirs, the cost of extraction increases. In fact, there is evidence that the “tight” oil referenced in Exhibit 1 is already starting to reach production limits, at current prices. The only way these production limits might be reasonably overcome is with higher oil prices–much higher than the IEA is assuming in any of its forecasts. Higher oil prices cause a huge problem because of their impact on the world economy. The IEA in fact mentions that current high oil prices are already acting as a brake on the global economy in its first slide for the press. Higher oil prices also mean that investment costs required to reach target production levels will be even higher than forecast by the IEA, adding another impediment to reaching its forecast production levels. If higher prices put the economies of oil importing nations into recession, then oil prices will drop lower, reducing the incentive to invest in new oil production infrastructure. In fact, we could find ourselves reaching “peak oil” because of an economic dilemma: while there seems to be plenty of oil available, the cost of extracting it may be reaching a point where it is more expensive than consumers can afford. As a result, some oil that we know about, and have been counting as reserves, will have to be left in the ground. The IMF has recently done modeling that is relevant to this issue in a working paper called “Oil and the World Economy: Some Possible Futures.” This analysis may provide some insight as to what the real situation will be. The Problem of Diminishing Returns One issue that the IEA has not properly modeled is the issue of declining resource quality, leading to diminishing returns and a rising “real” (inflation adjusted) cost of production. This situation is often described as reflecting declining Energy Return on Energy Invested (EROEI). The reason diminishing returns are a problem is because when a producer decides to extract oil, or gas or coal, the producer looks for the cheapest, easiest to extract, resource first. It is only when this resource is mostly depleted that the producer will seek locations where more expensive, harder to extract resource is available. Thus, over time, the inflation adjusted cost of extracting a resource tends to increase. In terms of the triangle shown in Figure 3 (see above left), producers tend to start at the top, with the “best” of the resource, and work their way toward the bottom. One result of this approach is that the cost per unit of production tends to rise, even as there are technology advances and efficiency gains, because the quality of the resource is declining. Reserves tend to increase over time with this approach, because as producers work their way down the triangle in the diagram, they always see an increasing quantity of lower quality resources. The new reserves are increasingly expensive to extract, in inflation adjusted terms. There is no flashing light that says, “Above this price, customers won’t be able to afford to purchase this resource any more,” though. As a result, the increasingly low quality reserves get added to reported amounts, even though in some cases, the cost of products made with these reserves (say gasoline or diesel) will send economies into recession. It should be noted that the issue of diminishing returns exists for almost any kind of resource. It exists for uranium extraction, since there is always more available, just harder to reach, or in lower concentration. Diminishing returns exists for gold, copper, and for nearly any other kind of metal. This means we often need more oil for metal extraction and processing, as we dig deeper or find ore that is mixed with a higher proportion of waste product.

No spare capacity – higher production levels don’t solve
Reuters 12 (News Organization, “World oil supply tightens in last 2 months: EIA,” http://dawn.com/2012/08/25/world-oil-supply-tightens-in-last-2-months-eia/ ;)
The EIA said on Friday global spare production capacity was “relatively tight by historical standards” at 2.4 million bpd, steady with the last report. Global inventories fell even as Saudi Arabia produced oil in July and August at a rate that was 900,000 bpd higher than its average rate over the last three years, the EIA said. The OPEC powerhouse is producing at higher rates as output in its rival Iran gets hit by sanctions on both sides of the Atlantic.

Transition to natural gas fails – we can’t integrate it into the economy
Tverberg 12 (Gail, Works in the insurance industry for casting and modeling, “Why Natural Gas isn’t Likely to be the World’s Energy Savior,” http://theenergycollective.com/node/131601 ;)
But I think that people who are counting on natural gas to solve the world’s energy problems are “counting their chickens before they are hatched”. Natural gas is a fuel that requires a lot of infrastructure in order for anything to “happen”. As a result, it needs a lot of up-front investment, and several years time delay. It also needs changes on the consumption side (requiring further investment) that will allow this natural gas to be used. If the cost is higher than competing fuels, this becomes a problem as well. In many ways, natural gas consumption is captive to other things that are happening in the economy: an economy that is industrializing rapidly will easily be able to consume more natural gas, but an economy in decline will find it hard to scrape together funds for new ways of doing what was done previously, now with natural gas. Increased use of renewables seems to call for additional use of natural gas for balancing, but even this is not certain, because in many parts of the world, natural gas is a high-priced imported fuel. Political instability, often linked to high oil and food prices, creates a poor atmosphere for new Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facilities, no matter how attractive the pricing may seem to be. In the US, we have already “hit the wall” on how much natural gas can be absorbed into the system or used to offset imports. US natural gas production has been flat since November 2011, based on EIA data (Figure 1, below).

Abiotic oil theory is stupid and inaccurate
Heinberg 4 (Richard, Senior Fellow-in-Residence at Post Carbon Institute, “The 'Abiotic Oil' Controversy,” http://rense.com/general58/biot.htm ;)
There is no way to conclusively prove that no petroleum is of abiotic origin. Science is an ongoing search for truth, and theories are continually being altered or scrapped as new evidence appears. However, the assertion that all oil is abiotic requires extraordinary support, because it must overcome abundant evidence, already cited, to tie specific oil accumulations to specific biological origins through a chain of well-understood processes that have been demonstrated, in principle, under laboratory conditions. Now, I like scientific mavericks; I tend to cheer for the underdog. Peak oil is itself a maverick idea, and for the past several years I have been promoting a view that the Wall Street Journal recently described as "crackpot." (14) So I feel a bit unaccustomed and even uncomfortable now to be on the side of the scientific "establishment" in arguing against the abiotic oil theorists. The latter certainly deserve their day in the court of scientific debate. Perhaps one day there will be general agreement that at least some oil is indeed abiotic. Maybe there are indeed deep methane belts twenty miles below the Earthís surface. But the important question to keep in mind is: What are the practical consequences of this discussion now for the problem of global oil depletion? I have not personally inspected the oil wells in Saudi Arabia or even those in Texas. But nearly every credible report that I have seen - whether from the industry or from an independent scientist - describes essentially the same reality: discoveries are declining, and have been since the 1960s. Spare production capacity is practically gone. And the old, super-giant oil fields that the world depends upon for the majority of its production are nearing or past their all-time production peaks. Not even the Russian fields cited by the abiotic theorists as evidence for their views are immune: in June the head of Russia's Federal Energy Agency said that production for 2005 is likely to remain flat or even drop, while other officials in that country have said that growth in Russian production cannot be sustained for more than another few years. (15)

The plan solves by providing a non-oil dependent transportation backbone – this solves the worst case scenarios of peak oil
Alan S. Drake ’10 *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Benefits - Transferring inter-city freight from truck to electrified double stack container rail replaces roughly 20 BTUs of refined diesel with 1 BTU of electricity. This electricity is potentially renewable, and we can easily conserve the less than 2% of total electrical demand required to operate expanded and electrified railroads. Double Stack 53′ Containers (the standard length for “18 wheeler” trailers) The reasons for the efficiency advantage of electric rail rest on basic physics. Steel rolling on steel has about one-fifth of the friction of rubber on concrete or asphalt and electric motors are almost three times as energy efficient as diesel engines. Electric motors can also serve as generators when braking, converting motion back into electricity. Trains, especially double stack container trains, are more efficient aerodynamically than an equivalent number of trucks since one rail car reduces drag for the following car. This 20 to 1 replacement ratio, diesel “traded” for renewable electricity (or conservation), has significant economic, energy, environmental, public health & safety and national security benefits. Savings on the order of two million barrels per day or about 11% of current US oil consumption are possible. That 11% performs a critical service – one that will be difficult to reduce in an oil emergency – unless, of course, we can turn to an expanded and electrified railroad system. An electrified rail system that significantly reduces oil consumption before an emergency can also expand quickly to save even more oil during an emergency. Electrifying existing rail traffic trades 2.5 to 3 BTUs of refined diesel for 1 BTU of electricity and will speed up transit times a bit, 5% to 15% in the European experience. This creates an oil-free transportation backbone that can deliver food and other essential materials regardless of the severity and duration of any future oil shortage. This “new and improved” system can respond quickly to a prolonged oil emergency with proper planning. Just 3% of Switzerland’s transportation energy is used by electrified rail, but the Swiss transport 1/3rd of their freight tonne-km and 1/6th of their passenger-km with that 3%. This success helps explain why the Swiss voted to invest 31 billion Swiss francs over twenty years in improvements to their already excellent rail system. Adjusting for population and currency, an equivalent American investment would be more than $1 trillion. The plan envisioned here will take less money, proportionally, than what the Swiss are investing today.

Rail electrification covers 85% of needs in a crisis preventing oil rationing
Alan S. Drake ’10 *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Chapter #1 – Electrified and Improved Railroads Overall Strategy - Create an Oil-Free Transportation system that can out-compete our existing oil based system. Electrified and improved oil-free railroads can competitively attract much, and likely most, of today’s truck freight traffic under current conditions of $80 per barrel oil and tax subsidized trucking vs. unsubsidized rail. Extant rail freight plus the freight transferred from trucks can be carried faster, cheaper, cleaner, greener, safer, more profitably and largely without oil, while creating an oil-free passenger network. At deregulation, the rail modal share of fruits and vegetables was just 1%. It has since grown to about 15% today. Transporting a majority of our fresh food ton-miles without oil is a realistic and very worthwhile strategic goal. A major goal of an electrified and improved rail system is that in the event of an oil supply shock (imagine $200 to $350 per barrel oil coupled with shortages), our oil-free transportation system can quickly expand to transport at least 85% of today’s inter-city truck ton-miles. This will allow food and critical materials to be transported oil-free and this shift will reduce the pressure on rationing oil to critical needs.

Two impacts –

First is energy scarcity – peak oil leads to civilization collapse and breakdown of society – causes widespread violence and human rights abuses
Morrigan 2010 (Tariel, the Principal Research Associate, Global Climate Change, Human Security and Democracy, October 2010, “Peak Energy, Climate Change and Collapse of Global Civilization,” http://www.global.ucsb.edu/climateproject/papers/pdf/Morrigan_2010_Energy_CC4.pdf ;)
Systemic Collapse and the Decline of Global Civilization Peak oil will have systemic effects throughout our entire global civilization. Korowicz explains that the contemporary world is based on: “...a globalising, integrated and co-dependant global economy evolved with particular dynamics and embedded structures that have made our basic welfare dependent upon delocalised 'local' economies. It has locked us into hyper-complex economic and social processes that are increasing our vulnerability, but which we are unable to alter without risking a collapse in those same welfare supporting structures. And without increasing energy flows, those embedded structures, which include our expectations, institutions and infrastructure that evolved and adapted in the expectation of further economic growth cannot be maintained.” In other words, not only is our civilization locked into a very complex and interrelated world economy, any attempt to significantly alter it and the energy and transportation infrastructure and the global economy on which it is based would cause it to collapse – but without an increasing oil energy supply, the infrastructure and economy on which our civilization is based cannot survive. A comprehensive analysis of the implications and potential consequences of a peak in global oil production is beyond the scope of this paper. Therefore, this particular topic will not be discussed at great length here. Instead, the reader is urged to read David Korowicz's report, Tipping Point: Near- Term Systemic Implications of a Peak in Global Oil Production – An Outline Review. Tipping Point provides a very clear and straightforward analysis of the implications and consequences of a peak in global oil production. Nevertheless, along with this analysis, it is worth summarizing the integrated collapse mechanisms and the possible consequences of peak oil as discussed by Korowicz. The principle driving mechanisms for a global economic collapse are re-enforcing positive feedback cycles except where noted, adapted from 95: • Declining oil and energy flows will increase economic costs and reduce global economic production. Reduced global production will undermine society's ability to produce goods and services, to trade, and to produce and use energy, which will further reduce economic production. • The global and industrialized economy is based on fractional reserve banking, compound interest, debt-based growth, and compound or unlimited growth. The economic theory on which the economy is based assumes unlimited energy supplies. Credit forms the basis of the monetary system. In a growing economy debt and interest can be repaid. In a declining economy they cannot be repaid. Therefore, declining energy flows cannot maintain the economic production required to service debt. When outstanding debt cannot be repaid, new credit will scarce. • In 2008, oil represented 41.6% of the global total final consumption of all fuels (e.g., coal, natural gas, etc.)7. Of this total, 61.4% was used for transportation; 9.5% was for industry; 12.9% was for other sectors (including agriculture, commercial and public services, residential, and other sectors); and 16.2% was for non-energy use7. • The major petroleum products many people are familiar with include petrol, aviation fuels, kerosene, diesel, lubricating oils and bitumen. However, refined oil also serves as a petrochemical feedstock for the production of plastics, synthetic rubber, pharmaceuticals, pesticides, electronics, packaging, fabrics, dyes, adhesives and paint. Therefore, oil not only provides the fuel for the growth of the global economy, it also provides many of the materials that support societies and from which modern civilization is built. A shortage of oil will result in shortages of plastics, electronics, pharmaceuticals, and other oil-based products necessary to build and support modern civilization. Society's localized needs and welfare have become very dependent on hyper-integrated globalized supply-chains (e.g, industrial, agricultural, water, energy). The system-wide functioning of global supply-chains is supported by monetary confidence and bank intermediation. The money in our economies holds no intrinsic value; it is backed by debt. When the economy is destabilized, deflation and hyper-inflation risks will also destabilize the monetary system. Furthermore, the banking system as a whole must become insolvent since their assets (i.e., loans) cannot be repaid. • The failure of globalized supply-chains will collapse world trade. In developed and industrialized societies, regional and local economies will breakdown since few goods and services are produced locally, but rather are imported and outsourced from the global economy. Therefore, the more complex and globalized the systems and inputs are on which modern societies rely, the more are societies at risk from a systemic collapse. • The global economy and supply-chains are also highly dependent on the operation of highly codependent critical infrastructure (e.g., energy, transportation, water, waste, food, finance, telecommunications, and Internet technologies). A systemic failure in one part of the infrastructure may cause cascading failure in the others. This infrastructure depends on continual re-supply of energy, materials, short-lifetime components; complex highly resource intensive and specialized supply-chains; large economies of scale; and the operation of the monetary and financial system. The interdependence of infrastructure is likely to cause rapidly increasing risks of systemic failure. • Since the Green Revolution started after World War II, the modern industrial agricultural system has become highly dependent on fossil fuel inputs (particularly oil and natural gas), the delocalization of food sourcing, and small just-in-time inventories. The failure of the modern food production system could result in rapidly evolving food security risks in both developed and developing countries. At risk is food production, the ability to link surpluses to deficits (i.e., distribute food from source to consumer), collapsed purchasing power, and the ability to monetize market transactions. • Peak oil is likely to cause a general peak in energy production and use (e.g., coal and gas generated electricity) (see Peak Energy Resources). The ability to develop new energy production and maintain existing energy infrastructure will likely be severely compromised. Massive energy demand and supply collapses will likely cause further decay of energy infrastructure and limit the ability to rebuild it. • The collapse mechanisms described above are non-linear, mutually reinforcing, and not exclusive. In other words, the above collapse mechanisms are interrelated, can happen simultaneously, can occur very suddenly and rapidly, and can cause and accelerate the occurrences of any of the other collapse mechanisms. • A principle initial driver of the collapse process will be growing awareness and action about peak oil and a growing awareness about the rapid decline of the financial sector and global economy. Investors will likely try to extract themselves from “virtual assets” (e.g., bond, equities, market funds, and cash) and convert them into “real assets” (e.g., property, precious metals, tools) before the system collapses. However, the nominal value of virtual assets likely far exceeds available real assets. Therefore, the confirmation of peak oil (e.g., by official and market action, and mainstream media discourse), fear, market panic, and market decline will drive a positive feedback in financial markets will accelerate systemic collapse. • Systemic collapse will evolve as a systemic crisis as the integrated infrastructure and economy of our global civilization breaks down. Most governments and societies, especially those that are developed and industrialized, will be unable to manage multiple simultaneous systemic crises. Consequently, systemic collapse will likely result in widespread confusion, fear, human security risks, [and] human rights abuses, and social break down.

Collapse of society reverses previous gains made by marginalized groups – dramatically increases racism, sexism, and homophobia
Baker 12 (Carolyn, Adjunct professor of history and psychology for 11 years, June 10th 2012 “Masculine, Feminine, Collapse, And The Next Culture, By Carolyn Baker” http://carolynbaker.net/2012/06/10/masculine-feminine-collapse-and-the-next-culture-by-carolyn-baker-3/ ;)
During the past three years since the publication of my two books focused on the collapse of industrial civilization, Sacred Demise: Walking The Spiritual Path Of Industrial Civilization’s Collapse and Navigating The Coming Chaos: A Handbook For Inner Transition, I have been asked countless times how I predict that people of color, women, children, the elderly, and the LGBT community, the most vulnerable members of a society in chaos, will be treated as industrial civilization continues to unravel. Many point to James Howard Kunstler’s futuristic novels as one likely scenario. Kunstler essentially believes that during and after the demise of civilization, minorities will be blatantly scapegoated as a principal cause of the demise, and that as the criminal and legal systems crumble, virtually nothing will deter crazed and criminal elements from foisting all manner of violence on the most defenseless. In fact, Kunstler argues that the gains experienced by ethnic minorities, women, and gays in the past forty years will essentially be erased as berserk, belligerent males succeed in ruling the day. In Navigating The Coming Chaos, I wrote very candidly about how I imagine women will be treated as existing societal structures deteriorate. Frankly, I agree with Kunstler that women and minorities will be targeted, and that members of targeted groups who believe otherwise are pathetically naïve. While I have never launched a crusade to arm women, whenever I am asked about how I believe they will be treated in collapse, I implore them to learn self-defense techniques and if they are open to it, complete at least one training in the use of firearms—and to stay current with practicing how to use the weapons with which they have trained.

Social order will break down – those that survive the collapse will kill themselves
Church 10/23/06 (Norman, Independent Energy Analyst for Counter Currents, “Major Problems of Surviving Peak Oil,” Powerswitch, http://www.powerswitch.org.uk/portal/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2026&Itemid=2)
It is difficult to think about 'how things will play out' when an oil-based global economy loses its cheap energy source. It has never happened before. It will never happen again. I think it quite probable that it will start very slowly, may be so slowly that we may not even see it start. It will take time for civilization to come apart, and the process will be like rolling down a slope, not like falling off a cliff. We will face a future of shortages, economic crises, disintegrating infrastructure, and collapsing public health, probably stretched out over a period of decades. The notion of holing up in a cabin in the hills with a stockpile of food and firearms is also not a realistic response. A few years of stored food and an assortment of high-tech paramilitary gear are hopelessly inadequate preparations in the face of this reality. Stockpiles of precious metals, another common hedge against collapse, are even more useless. All the gold in the world means nothing unless people are going to value it enough to trade what will be scarce resources for it. Many of the things that we take for granted -- food, water, heat, electricity, waste removal, medical care, and police protection -- will evaporate as the collapse accelerates. Riots will probably begin as food and water becomes scarce. Governments will attempt to take control of the situation and restore order, but it will become so widespread that it will be impossible. The primary killers will then become disease, starvation, dehydration, and suicide.

Next is oil wars – peak oil will escalate oil competition and cause national outrage
King 2008 (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en)
A similar peak in worldwide production would have far more sweeping consequences. It would, for one, spell the end of the world’s unparalleled economic boom over the last century. It would also dramatically reorder the wobbly balance of power between nations as energy-challenged industrialized countries turn their sights on the oil-rich nations of the Middle East and Africa. In a peak oil future, the small, flattened, globalized world that has awed recent commentators would become decidedly round and very vast again. Oceans will reemerge as a hindrance to trade, instead of the conduit they have been for so long. An energy-born jolt to the world economy would leave no corner of the globe untouched. Unable to pay their own fuel bills, the tiny Marshall Islands this summer faced the possibility of going entirely without power. That is a reality that could sweep across many of the smallest and poorest countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, reversing many of the tentative gains in those regions and stirring deep social unrest. Large patches of the world rely almost entirely on diesel-powered generators for what skimpy electricity they now have. Those generators are the first to run empty as prices soar. A British parliamentary report released in June on “The Impact of Peak Oil on International Development” concluded that “the deepening energy crisis has the potential to make poverty a permanent state for a growing number of people, undoing the development efforts of a generation.”9 We are seeing some of the consequences already in Pakistan – a country of huge strategic importance, with its own stash of nuclear weapons – that is now in the grips of a severe energy crisis. By crippling the country’s economy, battering the stock market, and spurring mass protests, Pakistan’s power shortages could end up giving the country’s Islamic parties the leverage they have long needed to take power. It’s not hard to imagine similar scenarios playing out in dozens of other developing countries. Deepening economic unrest will put an enormous strain on the United Nations and other international aid agencies. Anyone who has ever visited a major UN relief hub knows that their fl eets of Land Rovers, jumbo jets and prop planes have a militarysize thirst for fuel. Aid agency budgets will come under unprecedented pressure just as the need for international aid skyrockets and donor countries themselves feel pressed for cash. A peaking of oil supplies could also hasten the impact of global climate change by dramatically driving up the use of coal for power generation in much of the world. A weakened world economy would also put in jeopardy the massively expensive projects, such as carbon capture and storage, that many experts look to for a reduction in industrial emissions. So on top of the strains caused by scarce fossil fuels, the world may also have to grapple with the destabilizing effects of more rapid desertification, dwindling fisheries, and strained food supplies. An oil-constricted world will also stir perilous frictions between haves and have-nots. The vast majority of all the world’s known oil reserves is now in the hands of national oil companies, largely in countries with corrupt and autocratic governments. Many of these governments—Iran and Venezuela top the list—are now seen as antagonists of the United States. Tightened oil supplies will substantially boost these countries’ political leverage, but that enhanced power will carry its own peril. Playing the oil card when nations are scrambling for every barrel will be a far more serious matter that at any time in the past. The European continent could also undergo a profound shift as its needs—and sources of energy—diverge all the more from those of the United States. A conservation-oriented Europe (oil demand is on the decline in almost every EU country) will look all the more askance at what it sees as the gluttonous habits of the United States. At the same time, Europe’s governments may have little choice but to shy from any political confrontations with its principal energy supplier, Russia. An energy-restricted future will greatly enhance Russia’s clout within settings like the UN Security Council but also in its dealings with both Europe and China. Abundant oil and gas have fueled Russia’s return to power over the last decade, giving it renewed standing within the UN and increasing sway over European capitals. The peak oil threat is already sending shivers through the big developing countries of China and India, whose propulsive growth (and own internal stability) requires massive doses of energy. For Beijing, running low on fuel spells economic chaos and internal strife, which in turn spawns images of insurrection and a breaking up of the continent sized country. Slumping oil supplies will automatically pit the two largest energy consumers—the United States and China—against one another in competition over supplies in South America, West Africa, the Middle East, and Central Asia. China is already taking this competition very seriously. It doesn’t require much of a leap to imagine a Cold War-style scramble between Washington and Beijing—not for like-minded allies this time but simply for reliable and tested suppliers of oil. One region that offers promise and peril in almost equal measure is the Artic, which many in the oil industry consider the last big basin of untapped hydrocarbon riches. But the Artic remains an ungoverned ocean whose legal status couldn’t be less clear, especially so long as the United States continues to remain outside the international Law of the Sea Treaty. As the ices there recede, the risk increases that a scramble for assets in the Artic could turn nasty. No country, finally, will face more varied and far-reaching strains in an oil-constrained future than the United States. Its global military posture will have to shoulder even greater policing responsibilities, from the Gulf of Guinea to the Strait of Hormuz, just as it faces unprecedented challenges in keeping its own fuel tanks full. The United States will also see its very status as the world’s lone superpower [will be] put into question as its oil-dependent economy faces rising unemployment, falling home values, and the reality of being ever deeper in hawk to countries halfway around the world. The gloomiest prognosticators envision a future in which America’s entire postwar boom—with its massive interstates and suburban sprawl—is thrown violently into reverse. A jolt of even a quarter that magnitude could still spark a period of angry victimization, when both the public and their elected officials seek out those who are to blame for the country’s travails.

That causes the US to override rational calculations and ignite global wars for oil
King 2008 (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en)
In the United States, the prospect of diminished oil supplies and skyrocketing prices raises fears of recession, ebbing international status, and a transformation of the American way of life. In the big developing countries of Asia—above all China— the same prospect evokes images of mass unrest and the denial of potential superpower status. No country has been more determined than China over the last decade to assure that its rapid rise isn’t tripped up by a lack of energy. In Angola, Nigeria, Sudan, Iran, and across Central Asia, the Chinese government and Chinese state companies are going to extraordinary lengths to build infrastructure, create alliances, and sew up oil contracts. The ultimate aim is to lock in a number of long-term exclusive arrangements with suppliers in Africa, the Middle East, and Central Asia that would give China the assurance it seeks that no supply disruption will derail its economic ambitions. China’s quest to build a major deep-sea naval force, analysts say, is driven in part by its desire to protect critical sea lanes like the Strait of Malacca, through which all Asia-bound Middle East oil must pass. The Defense Department, in its more recent report on the “Military Power of the People’s Republic of China,” said that beyond Beijing’s usual fixation on Taiwan, an “analysis of China’s military acquisitions and strategic thinking suggests Beijing is also developing capabilities for use in other contingencies, such as conflict over resources.”5 The Bush administration has also cast an increasingly wary eye on Russia’s myriad efforts to tighten its energy grip over Europe, particularly when it comes to Europe’s increasing dependence on imported natural gas. Beyond its own abundant supply routes to Europe from its own territory, Russia’s Gazprom is now busy working to lock down supply arrangements from the Caspian, Iran, and North Africa. The recent fighting in Georgia has highlighted Western Europe’s vulnerabilities on the energy front. A key energy conduit, Georgia is home to the only oil pipeline outside of Russian control that can move the oil riches of the Caspian region to markets in the West. In the first week of its August war with Georgia, Russia dropped bombs within feet of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline and took down a railroad bridge that carried Kazak crude to the Georgian port of Poti. At the same time, many of the recent fulminations in Congress over Saudi Arabia’s alleged unwillingness to boost its output illustrate that a strong sense of resource entitlement continues to live on within the U.S. political establishment. While Rep. Ros-Lehtinen demands heatedly that the Saudis pump more oil to help commuters in Miami, she also opposes calls to open Florida’s Gulf coast to oil exploration. Many commentators in the United States and abroad have begun to wrestle with the question of whether soaring oil prices and market volatility could spark an outright oil war between major powers—possibly ignited not by China or Russia, but by the United States. In a particularly pointed speech on the topic in May, James Russell of the Naval Postgraduate School in California addressed what he called the increasing militarization of international energy security. “Energy security is now deemed so central to ‘national security’ that threats to the former are liable to be reflexively interpreted as threats to the latter,” he told a gathering at the James A. Baker Institute for Public Policy at Houston’s Rice University.6 The possibility that a large-scale war could break out over access to dwindling energy resources, he wrote, “is one of the most alarming prospects facing the current world system.”7 Mr. Russell figures among a growing pool of analysts who worry in particular about the psychological readiness of the United States to deal rationally with a sustained oil shock. Particularly troubling is the increasing perception within Congress that the financial side of the oil markets no longer functions rationally. It has either been taken over by speculators or is being manipulated, on the supply side, by producers who are holding back on pumping more oil in order to drive up the price. A breakdown in trust for the oil markets, these analysts fear, could spur calls for government action—even military intervention. “The perceptive chasm in the United States between new [oil] market realities and their impact on the global distribution of power will one day close,” Mr. Russell said. “And when it does, look out.”8

Extinction
Lewis 1998 (Chris H, Professor in Sewall Academic Program at CU-Boulder, “The Coming Age of Scarcity,” Pg 56)
Most critics would argue, probably correctly, that instead of allowing underdeveloped countries to withdraw from the global economy and undermine the economies of the developed world, the United States, Europe, and Japan and others will fight neocolonial wars to force these countries to remain within this collapsing global economy. These neocolonial wars will result in mass death, suffering, and even regional nuclear wars. If first world countries choose military confrontation and political repression to maintain the global economy, then we may see mass death and genocide on a global scale that will make the deaths of World War II pale in comparison. However, these neocolonial wars, fought to maintain the developed nations' economic and political hegemony, will cause the final collapse of our global industrial civilization. These wars will so damage the complex economic and trading networks and squander material, biological and energy resources that they will undermine the global economy and its ability to support the earth's 6 to 8 billion people. This would be the worst case scenario for the collapse of global civilization.

Absent resource wars, we are so dependent on oil, it causes mass outrage and regional wars around the globe
King 2008 (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en)
Many of the biggest names in the oil industry now agree on one point: That whatever the ultimate cause—be it political, geological or a mix of both—the world is now entering a new era of high energy costs and constrained supplies. Just as 1908 marked the birth of the Model T and the advent of the automotive age, historians may one day mark 2008 as the beginning of the end of the age of petroleum. The evidence is strong that this period is not a blip. John Hess, the taciturn chief executive of Hess Oil, made a particularly gloomy case earlier this year for why, as he said, “an oil crisis is coming.”1 Demand growth around the world is unrelenting, and has abated only slightly as prices have soared to unimagined highs. But more to the point, he said, is that the industry isn’t investing enough to surmount the many challenges on the supply side. As a result, oil supply capacity could hit its ceiling by 2015. Others argue that the shortfall could come much sooner. The purpose of this paper is not to argue whether the world is about to hit its oil-production limit. The long-running feud over peak oil remains heated and unsettled, with whole armies of geologists, oil executives and statisticians blasting away from either side. Instead, the aim here is to take the evidence of real trouble ahead, and to explore what strains it may impose on the world’s existing architecture. Evidence of the coming turbulence is not hard to find. The world’s two foremost energy forecasting shops, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) and the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA), are both dropping their habitual optimism and assuming a much darker view of the challenges ahead. The IEA in November will release its first-ever comprehensive study of the world’s oil supplies, and its conclusions are said to be chilling. A vast portion of the oil fields that fuel the world’s cars, trucks, airplanes and ships are now growing tired and depleting rapidly. That depletion rate means that around the world, oil companies every year must bring onstream nearly the equivalent of all of America’s annual oil production just to keep even. Many big producing countries, Norway and Mexico among them, are now in permanent decline. The problem the world faces can be summed up in a simple phrase: its supplies of oil are old and rapidly aging, while demand for that oil is young and rapidly growing. For the first time since the rise of modern capitalism, our society and its engrained way of life—its restlessness, its mobility, its reliance on sustained economic growth and expansion—may literally begin running short of fuel. The ramifications of a sustained supply shortfall, if it comes, will be massive and wide-ranging. Economists are just beginning to examine the dramatic changes the U.S. economy and the global trading system will experience if oil prices continue to notch ever higher. The average cost of a barrel of oil has crept up about $12 every year since 2003. Last year it averaged around $72 a barrel, a figure which this year is all but certain to remain over $100. What this summer has clearly shown is that oil at $150 a barrel or more would force wrenching changes in the United States, where planners would face the challenge of having to reverse a half century of development and sprawl built entirely around the automobile. Far less understood, though, are the equally sweeping national security challenges that will multiply as the impact of sky-high oil prices ripples through international capitals. The current world order has been built on cheap and abundant oil more than any other commodity. Without it, the United States could not have established a global military posture reaching from the shores of Italy to the Pacific outpost of Guam. Nor would the world have seen the breakneck industrialization and economic growth of the last century, much of it driven literally by the U.S. model of upward mobility and individual consumption. Oil, and the need to protect it, secure it, or fight over it, have figured prominently in nearly every major war of the modern age. Those impulses will only increase in an age of scarcity—and with a cast of players far more complicated than during any earlier energy crisis. At the end of the Second World War, as the only real industrialized powers, the United States and Europe jockeyed over control of the oil riches of the Middle East. By 1973, when the West got its first oil scare, the United States still produced a sixth of the world’s oil and consumed almost twice as much every day as did all of Asia, including Australia, China, India, and Japan.

Status quo multilateralism empirically solves escalation – however, post-peak resource wars are the only scenario for nuclear war
Watson 5 (Roland, Author of various reports and the investment newsletter The New Era Investor, “Peak Oil & Nuclear War,” http://www.powerswitch.org.uk/portal/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=912 ;)
Now here we are 30 years on. The Soviet Union has collapsed under its own weight, its satellite states have gone their own way and DEFCON is a word you don't hear very often. As we approach the 60th anniversary of the only use of nuclear weapons in warfare, we may all feel a little bit confident in the ability of human beings to work things out between ourselves. Progressing into this new century, the disaster topics of the day are Global Warming and Peak Oil. Nuclear War is nowhere to be seen and is relegated to the "special interests" section. But if Peak Oil is the elephant in the living room, will Nuclear War turn out to be the brontosaurus (don't ask me what type of living room we are talking about here)? I have taken the view that Peak Oil in its initial stages is an economic event per se. If we only had to look at Peak Oil in those terms then things may be a bit predictable. However, life is a sequence of causes and effects. An obscure duke is assassinated and World War I ensues. The Treaty of Versailles is signed and Adolf Hitler arises. Global oil production hits a peak forever and nuclear war prevails. The last proposition is obviously not written in stone, but it ought to be discussed. Most of the nuclear warheads that people worried about in the 1970s are still around in some form. Where those missles are currently targetted continues to be state secrets. What does it take for them to be used? What are the stress points in international relations that send these harbingers of destruction skywards? Peak Oil commentators talk about "resource wars". Perhaps they are thinking of something along the lines of Gulf Wars I and II. Do they want to think in elephantine or brontosaurian terms? What will a nuclear power be prepared to do to get their point across? Hiroshima and Nagasaki ended one resource war, at what stage will they be used in the next resource wars? Now if anyone thinks these weapons will never be used again better think twice. They have been used and will be used again. We just hope they won't be used in our lifetimes. So what may happen? The scenarios are manifold but revolve around that phase in the post-peak oil era where things are beginning to bite. The wealthy nations have already been purged of their excess wealth and consumerism but alternate energy sources are coming online and offering some promise. However, some nuclear armed nations are not progressing as rapidly in those areas as they ought to. Their populations demand energy for the basics as well as life's little luxuries and they expect their governments to get it. The Middle East is now under a form of Western Protectorate as civil strife and war afflicts those oil producing nations and American warships ensure safe passage for oil supertankers through the Persian Gulf. Beset with young but disaffected populations, they struggle with economic depression and revolutionary islamic groups. Neighbouring Israel is the continued target of skirmishes and intermittent attacks as it nervously holds onto its nuclear trigger. Meanwhile, China demands a fair deal for distribution of crude oil production at the United Nations and threatens action against the USA and Britain if they persist in their "oil for protection" racket.

Resource scarcity is the only scenario for nuclear war and it will cause it – human nature and the US is unprepared
Cleveland Mark Blakemore, January 6th, 2010 (writer of Vault-co, “The Coming Nuclear War Over Resources,” http://vault-co.blogspot.com/2010/01/coming-nuclear-war-over-resources.html, this evidence is gender modified >:)
The Coming Nuclear War over Resources These conditions historically lead to war. [Human] is a warlike animal and has not changed one iota in recent times. [Humans] under stress who are forced to compete for resources turn to war because it is in their bloodstream. When the only biological weapon you have mentally is a hammer, every problem seems to you to be a nail. It is the genetic prison cell that lines our brains. If [humans] reacted any other way they would no longer be human as we know it. They would be something else. [A human] by definition is a creature who solves his problems by killing others and the spoils go to the genetic lines that kill first, without mercy or qualms. They are the [humans] who have borne the children who surround you right now. Our race is the lineage of Cain and only scarcity makes us act according to our innermost nature. Do you want to pause to try to think about a more rational solution? Well, your head will be crushed by a rock thrown by another [human] who simply acts impulsively and it is that [human] who will write history and lie down with your wives and daughters. See why this is a rigged game designed in such a way that sane people cannot win at it? The crazy thing is, because of modern weapons, psychopaths and sociopaths can't win at it anymore either. They won't allow that notion to stay their hand, however. Britain same. No growing season means no food and no food means worldwide famine. To produce more food with modern agricultural methods means you need more fuel The U.S. Government isn't worried. How bad could it be? It's not like the end of the world or anything. What is important is that cappuccino service is not interrupted, especially not those little mints on the side. Nobody is leaving Afghanistan until the question of who will control the Caspian pipeline is settled. That question will be solved by World War III. Anyway, it's not like everybody and their brother are all going to jump into one massive battle with each other otherwise in a global free-for-all.

Adapting now is key – waiting until the peak means we won’t survive the transition
Roberts 2004 (Paul, Regular Contributor to Various Periodicals, Finalist for the National Magazine Award in 1999 and for the New York Public Library Award for Excellence in Journalism in 2005, “The End of Oil”, Pg 12)
Yet despite the staying power of the status quo, each year that energy consumption continues unabated, the end of the current energy system not only becomes more inevitable but appears more likely to occur as a traumatic event. As energy supplies become harder to transport, as environmental effects worsen, and as energy diplomacy sows even greater geopolitical discord, the weight of the existing energy order becomes less and less bearable – and the possibility of a disruption more undeniable. In the end, this question of disruption may be the most critical one of all – not simply for policymakers and oil sheiks, but for anyone accustomed to filling up at the gas station or switching on an air conditioner; for it is not simply change that affects us, but the rate of change – how quickly and cleanly one way of life is exchanged for another. A swift, chaotic shift in our energy economy almost guarantees disruption, uncertainty, economic loss, even violence. By contrast, were we somehow to manage a gradual, smooth change, phased in over time, we might be able to adapt, minimiz[es]ing our losses and even allowing the more clever of our species to profit from new opportunities.

====1ac solvency==== 

The plan results in a net increase of capacity and electrification – that solves all bottlenecks and congestion
Drake et al, Jan. 2009, (A. Drake, Consulting Engineer, A. M. Bassi, Senior Modeler, Millennium Institute, E. L. Tennyson, Professional Engineer, Retired; Emeritus Member TRB, H. R. Herren, President, Millennium Institute), “Evaluating the Creation of a Parallel Non-Oil Transportation System in an Oil Constrained Future,” http://www.steelinterstate.org/sites/default/files/Transportation_MI09.pdf, p. 7-8
The “high end” cost estimate of $500 billion (2008 dollars) would overbuild the US railroad system for capacity (current plus future rail and truck volumes) and would almost eliminate bottlenecks. About 14,000 miles of grade separated three or four track service (comparable to CSX plans from Washington DC to Miami), with one or two tracks devoted to 100 to 110 mph passenger and express freight service would serve most population centers at $20 million/mile. Capacity expansions such as those listed below at $2 million/mile would apply to another 30,000 miles of track (mostly improved signals, grade and curve improvements and converting single track to double track). / In addition, electrification of over 60,000 miles of track at $2 to 2.5 million/mile (more for complex installations) and bottleneck reductions such as CREATE brings the total to roughly $500 billion, as mentioned above. / It should be noted that marginal capacity expansion for increased traffic on roads and highways is generally higher than the original cost per unit of traffic, thereby raising average costs as road capacity increases. Conversely, the marginal cost for capacity expansion of rail is lower than the original cost, and increased rail traffic leads to lower average costs. To illustrate, adding a second track shares the ROW and some signal costs with the first track, but it increases track capacity by a factor of three or four. Double tracking reduces rolling stock and labor costs by almost eliminating delays for the tracks to clear. The larger economy benefits significantly from faster and more reliable rail shipments. Improved signals are even more cost effective (32). / Such massive level of improvements would allow rail service quality to equal or surpass truck service in an oil constrained future. Given the cost advantages of electrified rail, this should allow for a projected 83% modal shift of the existing truck traffic to future rail.

Capacity investment is necessary to prevent freight overload.
Mulvey and Szabo, ’11 (Francis P. Mulvey, a commissioner of the Surface Transportation Board in Washington; and Joseph C. Szabo, head of the Federal Railroad Administration in Washington, 5-22-2011, “The Future of Rail,” Wall Street Journal,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703834804576301230350030512.html)
MR. MULVEY: Many factors determine rail traffic levels and market share. Since Staggers [the 1980 law that partly deregulated railroads], the rail share of intercity ton miles has grown from just over 30% to over 43%. But much of that has been due to declining shares of barge, Great Lakes and pipeline traffic—as opposed to shifts from truck to rail. / Whether the railroads can increase their share of truck-competitive traffic will depend on railroad pricing and service policies, and on the railroads' willingness to invest in capacity. Capacity investment, in turn, will depend on perceived profitability of those investments. If new rail capacity is dedicated to higher-speed passenger operations or commuter-rail services, the railroads might not be able to handle much more freight business. / MR. SZABO: By 2050, our country's population is expected to grow by more than 100 million people. Right now, on average, the freight system must move 40 tons of freight per person, per year. So do the math: 40 tons times another 100 million people is another four billion tons of freight. Without planning and action, that's an unsustainable rate of growth. / Given rail's efficiencies—and our challenges with congestion, air quality and fuel consumption—freight rail will need to grow market share.

==renewable rail affirmative== 
===1ac wake=== 
====1ac plan==== 

**United States federal government should institute a substantial number of 25% declining investment tax credit and issue guaranteed utility bonds for construction of electrified freight rail lines. United States federal government should offer half of the tax credits to invest in measures that improve rail capacity, speed and reliability.**

====1ac solvency==== 

**Combination of declining investment tax credit and guaranteed bonds would electrify the rail network as soon as possible – the federal government is key to issue tax credits and bonds**
**Drake** 07/15/**08** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “Multiple Birds – One Silver BB: A Synergistic Set of Solutions to Multiple Issues Focused on Electrified Railroads,” The Oil Drum, http://www.theoildrum.com/node/4301)
The USA needs [...] railroads or utilities.

**Best models prove – in 20 years, the plan achieves a 40% cut in emissions and expands the GDP by 13%**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Bottom Line Benefits [...] what ails us !

**Improving rail capacity is key – basic improvements solve**
**Drake 10** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1,” http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/ ;)
Better Signals and [...] last for centuries.

====1ac freight==== 

**Failing infrastructure will overload freight capacity, collapsing the economy and global supply chain – improved rail is key to solve**
**BAF** 20**11** (Building America’s Future, A national, bipartisan coalition dedicated to infrastructure investment and reform, February 2011, “Falling Apart and Falling Behind,” http://www.bafuture.com/sites/default/files/Report_0.pdf ;)
In the 21st [...] revenues with them.

**Population crunch means increase in freight demand is inevitable – new infrastructure’s key but businesses need help**
**Treasury 3-23**-12 (The Department of the Treasury is responsible for analyzing and reporting on current and prospective economic developments in the U.S. and world economies and assisting in the determination of appropriate economic policies. Treasury conducts research to assist in the formulation and articulation of public policies and positions of the Department on a wide range of microeconomic issues, “A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT,” http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf ;)
The merits of [...] business as usual.”

**Improving freight solves the economy and global commerce – empirically proven**
**AAR** 20**12** (Association of American Railroads, members include the major freight railroads in the United States, Canada and Mexico, as well as Amtrak. Working with elected officials and leaders in Washington, D.C. on critical transportation and related issues, AAR ensures that the freight rail industry will continue to meet America’s transportation needs today and tomorrow, June, “The Economic Impactof America’s Freight Railroads,” http://www.aar.org/~/media/aar/Background-Papers/The-Economic-Impact-of-Freight.ashx ;)
From the food [...] 30 years ago.

**Transportation infrastructure development is key to the economy – 2009 proves**
**Costa and Hersh** 20**11** (Kristina and Adam, Special Assistant with the Doing What Works project at the Center for American Progress and Economist at the Center for American Progress, “Infrastructure Spending Builds American Jobs,” http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/jobs_infrastructure.html, September 8th 2011 ;)
Fortunately, there is [...] idle and unpaid.

**Rail is key to the supply chain and US economy – disruption hurts them**
**Kelly** 3/6/**08** (Robert W, Senior Advisor to the Reform Institute’s Homeland and National Security Center, “Chain of Perils: Hardening the Global Supply Chain and Strengthening America’s Resilience,” http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=58656D76-9643-757E-BEA4-119FB6E12C29&lng=en)
The fact is [...] private sector leaders.

**The plan solves best – the alternative is trucks, which are inefficient**
**Drake** 20**10** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, June 17th 2010, “"Free" Tax Credits to Build Oil-Free Cross-Country Transportation with Repatriated Profits,”http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/building-oil-free-cross-country.html ;)
Trucks would have [...] land and improvements.

**Data proves – electrified rail solves best**
**Drake 10** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1,” http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/ ;)
Just 3% of [...] billion this year.

**US economic collapse cause global wars**
**Royal** 20**10** (Jedidah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction, U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of war and peace: economic, legal and political perspectives, vol. 12, edited by Jurgen Brauer, p. 213-214)
Thus, the answer [...] deserves more attention.

**Independently, breakdown of global transportation causes extinction**
**Dempsey 2k** (Paul Stephen, Professor of Law and Director of the Transportation Law Program at University of Denver, Director of the National Center for Intermodal Transportation, former attorney for the Interstate Commerce Commission and the US Civil Aeronautics Board, Summer 2000, 27 Transp. L. J. 367, Lexis Nexis)
As the gateways to an increasingly global market, transportation corridors are the arteries through which we and everything we consume flow. Transportation networks stimulate trillions of dollars in trade, c3ommerce, and tourism. In a global economy, they enable specialization in the production of goods and services which, under the law of comparative advantage, stimulates broader economic growth. By shrinking the planet, transportation also facilitates the intermingling and integration of disparate economies and cultures. Cultural interaction enhances international understanding which promotes global peace which, in a thermonuclear world, is essential for survival of our species. It offers hope for the creation of a global village of friends and neighbors rather than enemies and adversaries. Cultural interaction also stimulates intellectual social and artistic creativity, making the world a more interesting and richer place in which to live. As a fundamental component of the infrastructure upon which economic growth is built - the veins and arteries of commerce, communications, and national defense - a healthy transportation system serving the public's needs for ubiquitous service at reasonable prices is vitally important to region and the nation it serves. It is for this reason that governments the world over have promoted, encouraged, and facilitated its provision by providing essential infrastructure, research and development, protective regulation, subsidies and, on occasion, outright ownership. Historically, government has facilitated transportation by guiding the airports, the seaports, the rail and transit lines, subsidized their operations where necessary, and established the basic codes and rules under which the industry serves the public. If done thoughtfully and well, government planning can facilitate creation of an efficient and productive transportation infrastructure better able to satisfy the broader needs of the public for safe, secure, seamless, expeditious and reasonably priced transportation service. The tourism and travel business is arguably the world's largest industry. It accounts for 5.5% of the world's GNP, 12.9% of consumer spending, 7.2% of worldwide capital investment, and 127 million jobs, employing one in every 15 workers. The ripple effect of transportation activity - the indirect and induced economic and employment stimulation - is vastly larger than the prices paid directly by passengers or shippers. Transportation creates and transports wealth far in excess of its own facial value. In other words, the tacit benefits of economic stimulation created by transportation networks far exceeds its costs. In this sense, transportation has profound externalities, both positive and negative. For example, a city with abundant airline, motor carrier and railroad networks radiating from it like the spokes of a wheel, enjoys a wide economic catchment area stimulating trade, commerce and wealth for its citizens. Conversely, a community with poor, declining or deteriorating access to the established and prevailing transportation networks will wither like a human limb or organ starved of oxygen by an artery made impassable by a tenacious blood clot. On a macroeconomic level, these observations are true for all nations and all regions, and arguably for all time. An expeditious, efficient, and economical transportation network will facilitate the public's need for mobility and will ordinarily advance economic productivity and growth. Conversely, a deteriorating transportation infrastructure will produce sluggishness in overall economic productivity and retard economic growth.

**And, no international alt causes – US is crucial**
**Dempsey 2k** (Paul Stephen, Professor of Law and Director of the Transportation Law Program at University of Denver, Director of the National Center for Intermodal Transportation, former attorney for the Interstate Commerce Commission and the US Civil Aeronautics Board, Summer 2000, 27 Transp. L. J. 367, Lexis Nexis)
Among the more dramatic contemporary shifts in transportation patterns has been the growth of multimodal international movements. For import or export traffic that is originating from or destined to U.S. points, rail/water/motor carrier combinations are often employed. Moreover, the United States has become a "land bridge" for a substantial amount of traffic that neither originates from nor is destined to U.S. shippers, but instead is moving between Europe and the Far East. n9

====1ac peak==== 

**Peak oil is coming now and will begin an age of energy scarcity – renewable energy’s key to adapt**
**Wakeford 7/27** (Jeremy, senior lecturer in the School of Economics at UCT and is Research Director of the. Association for the Study of Peak Oil South Africa, July 27th 2012, “Peak oil is no myth,” http://www.engineeringnews.co.za/article/peak-oil-is-no-myth-2012-07-27 ;)
Peak oil is [...] sustainable energy economies.

**Untapped oil can’t solve –it’s all about a descent in production which is inevitable**
**Leggett 7/4** (Jeremy, Jeremy Leggett is founder and Chairman of Solarcentury, the UK's largest solar solutions company, and SolarAid, a charity set up with Solarcentury profits. He is author of The Carbon War and Half Gone, “Monbiot says he was wrong on peak oil but the crisis is undeniable,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/blog/2012/jul/04/monbiot-wrong-peak-oil;)
The many misunderstandings [...] the Financial Times.

**Structural issues prove – it’s coming now and will cause war**
**King** 20**08** (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08)
Many of the [...] China, India, and Japan.

**The plan solves by providing a non-oil dependent transportation backbone – this solves the worst case scenarios of peak oil**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Benefits - Transferring inter-city [...] are investing today.

**Rail electrification covers 85% of needs in a crisis preventing oil rationing**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Chapter #1 – Electrified and [...] to critical needs.

**This buffers society from breakdown**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
The macro-economic advantages [...] is clearly necessary.

**Two impacts –**

=====1ac scarcity===== 

**First is energy scarcity – peak oil leads to civilization collapse and breakdown of society – causes widespread violence and human rights abuses**
**Morrigan** 20**10** (Tariel, the Principal Research Associate, Global Climate Change, Human Security and Democracy, October 2010, “Peak Energy, Climate Change and Collapse of Global Civilization,” http://www.global.ucsb.edu/climateproject/papers/pdf/Morrigan_2010_Energy_CC4.pdf ;)
Systemic Collapse and [...] social break down.

**Social order will break down – those that survive the collapse will kill themselves**
**Church** 10/23/**06** (Norman, Independent Energy Analyst for Counter Currents, “Major Problems of Surviving Peak Oil,” Powerswitch, http://www.powerswitch.org.uk/portal/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2026&Itemid=2)
It is difficult [...] starvation, dehydration, and suicide.

=====1ac lashout===== 

**Next is resource lashout – peak oil will escalate resource competition and cause national outrage**
**King** 20**08** (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08)
A similar peak [...] the country’s travails.

**That causes the US to override rational calculations and ignite global resource wars**
**King** 20**08** (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08)
In the United States, [...] does, look out.”8

**Extinction**
**Lewis** 19**98** (Chris H, Professor in Sewall Academic Program at CU-Boulder, “The Coming Age of Scarcity,” Pg 56)
Most critics would [...] of global civilization.

**Resource wars are the most likely point of conflict**
**Klare** 20**06** (Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)
It's official: the [...] forms of conflict.

**Adapting now is key – waiting until the peak means we won’t survive the transition**
**Roberts** 20**04** (Paul, Regular Contributor to Various Periodicals, Finalist for the National Magazine Award in 1999 and for the New York Public Library Award for Excellence in Journalism in 2005, “The End of Oil”, Pg 12)
Yet despite the [...] from new opportunities.

**The plan creates new renewable energy markets and renewable energy production**
**Drake** 07/15/**08** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “Multiple Birds – One Silver BB: A Synergistic Set of Solutions to Multiple Issues Focused on Electrified Railroads,” The Oil Drum, http://www.theoildrum.com/node/4301)
Electrification will likely [...] Non-GHG Transportation systems.

===1ac gtown=== 
====1ac plan==== 

**United States federal government should make rail electrification a national security priority.**

**We’ll clarify.**

====1ac peak==== 

**Same as Wake, but with these 3 cards** **–**

**New extraction technology can’t solve – diminishing returns**
**Martenson 11** (PhD and economic researcher specializing in energy and resource depletion, 5/27/11 “Why Time Is Short Now That We're Past Peak Oil,”
http://www.businessinsider.com/why-time-is-short-now-that-were-past-peak-oil-2011-5#ixzz23qc53m5p ;)
Some experts are shaking their heads […] possibility not yet priced into any financial markets.

**No spare capacity – higher production levels don’t solve**
**Reuters 12** (News Organization, “World oil supply tightens in last 2 months: EIA,” http://dawn.com/2012/08/25/world-oil-supply-tightens-in-last-2-months-eia/ ;)
The EIA […] sides of the Atlantic.

**Transition to nat gas fails – only renewables solve**
**Suzuki 12** (David, An award-winning scientist, environmentalist and broadcaster, is renowned for his radio and television programs that explain the complexities of the natural sciences in a compelling, easily understood way, “SCIENCE MATTERS: Natural gas fails to solve dependency on fossil fuels,” http://www.nanaimobulletin.com/opinion/169623876.html?c=y&curSection=/&curTitle=BC+Opinion&bc09=true ;)
At least 38 earthquakes […]that have fewer negative impacts.

====1ac decentralization==== 

**The current power grid is vulnerable and outdated – improvements are key – otherwise, the grid will be overloaded and crash in the near future**
**Halsey 12** (Ashley, The Washington Post Writer, 8/1/12, “Aging power grid on overload as U.S. demands more electricity,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/trafficandcommuting/aging-power-grid-on-overload-as-us-demands-more-electricity/2012/08/01/gJQAB5LDQX_story.html ;)
They began to bend in the […]“In fact, it’s a little more scary than the [ASCE] report indicates.”

**The plan solves for a reliable decentralized electricity grid**
**Drake** 07/15/**08** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “Multiple Birds – One Silver BB: A Synergistic Set of Solutions to Multiple Issues Focused on Electrified Railroads,” The Oil Drum, http://www.theoildrum.com/node/4301)
Electrification will likely require substations [...] Non-GHG Transportation systems.

**We'll isolate three scenarios** **–**

=====1ac overload===== 

**Scenario One – Grid Overload**

**Decentralization is critical for power grid reliability during disasters – solves economic collapse**
**Verclas 12** (Kristen, The Senior Program Manager at the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies, 4/27/12, “The Decentralization of the Electricity Grid – Mitigating Risk in the Energy Sector,” http://www.aicgs.org/publication/the-decentralization-of-the-electricity-grid-mitigating-risk-in-the-energy-sector/ ;)
Natural disasters like Hurricane Katrina in the U.S. […] times of natural disasters or terrorist attacks.

**US economic collapse cause global wars**
**Royal** 20**10** (Jedidah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction, U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of war and peace: economic, legal and political perspectives, vol. 12, edited by Jurgen Brauer, p. 213-214)
Thus, the answer to the first […]-security debate and deserves more attention.

=====1ac china===== 

**Scenario Two – China Cyber-Warfare**

**Chinese cyber-attacks are coming now – they’ve penetrated the electric grid and the US is unprepared**
Ellen **Nakashima**, March 8th, 20**12** (national security reporter for The Washington Post, focuses on issues relating to intelligence, technology and civil liberties, previously served as a Southeast Asia correspondent for the paper, wrote about the presidential candidacy of Al Gore and co-authored a biography of Gore, and has also covered federal agencies, Virginia state politics and local affairs, “China testing cyber-attack capabilities, report says,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/ellen-nakashima/2011/03/02/ABdt4sM_page.html >:)
For a decade or more, […]command decision-making,” the report said.

**The impact is nuclear retaliation**
Sean **Lawson**, Ph.D. in Information Warfare and Assistant Professor of Communication @ the University of Utah, 20**09**, “Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation”
So, from a theoretical standpoint, […]is regarded with the same or greater seriousness.” [7]

**Extinction**
**Straits Times 2K**
(6-25-2000, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan,” p L/N, NJ)
Conflict on such a scale […]sovereignty above everything else.

=====1ac storms===== 

**Scenario Three** **– Solar Storms**

**Solar storms are coming now, but the power grid’s unprepared – the impact is extinction from nuclear meltdown – outweighs other impacts**
**IB Times 11** (International Business Times, Mike Adams – author and journalist, “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns” September 14th 2011 ,http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm ;)
(NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar, […]into a total meltdown simultaneously.

**Grid decentralization solves by building resilience to cyberattacks and solar storms – key to critical infrastructure**
Chris **Clarke**, August 14th, 20**12** (natural history writer and environmental journalist, “GOP Rep Pushes to Decentralize the Grid,” http://www.kcet.org/news/rewire/government/gop-rep-pushes-to-decentralize-the-grid.html >:)
When you look at the […]that development easier.

====1ac solvency==== 

**Only a National security priority can spur electrification as soon as possible**
**Drake 12** (Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, 6/6/12, “The Overlooked Existential Threat & Solution,” http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/overlooked-existential-threat-and.html ;)
One suggestion/possibility […]away from oil for essential freight.

**Specifically, the plan solves the key bottlenecks in 3-5 years – that is the most cost effective solution**
**Drake 12** (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “The Overlooked Existential Threat & Solution,” http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/overlooked-existential-threat-and.html ;)
In a rational rationing scheme […]eliminated in three to five years.

**Only the plan solves in all sectors – we must proceed with electrification as soon as possible – only that solves**
Alan S. **Drake ’10** *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
The macro-economic advantages […]oil-free transportation is clearly necessary.

**Only state action with a national security priority solves peak oil and nothing else does**
**WOTW 12** (War of the Words, Internet writer that is a analyzer of history and political theory living in the Pacific Northwest, 3/10/12, “Quitting Oil is a National Security Priority,” http://open.salon.com/blog/war_of_the_words/2012/03/10/quitting_oil_is_a_national_security_priority ;)
Our entire economy and […] indirect subsidy to the oil industry.

===1ac capitol=== 
====1ac peak==== 
=====1ac scarcity===== 

Added:

**Peak oil causes minority oppression to increase exponentially – dramatically increases racism, sexism, and homophobia**
**Baker 12** (Carolyn, June 10th 2012, Adjunct professor of history and psychology for 11 years “Masculine, Feminine, Collapse, And The Next Culture, By Carolyn Baker” http://carolynbaker.net/2012/06/10/masculine-feminine-collapse-and-the-next-culture-by-carolyn-baker-3/ ;)
During the past [...] they have trained.

**Minorities and women will be targeted**
**Baker 12** (Carolyn, June 10th 2012, Adjunct professor of history and psychology for 11 years “Masculine, Feminine, Collapse, And The Next Culture, By Carolyn Baker” http://carolynbaker.net/2012/06/10/masculine-feminine-collapse-and-the-next-culture-by-carolyn-baker-3/ ;)
Collapse, Gender, Archetypes [...] is anyone’s guess.

====1ac grid==== 
=====1ac energy control===== 

[note: this replaced the China scenario]

**Scenario Three** **– Energy Control**

**Status quo energy is controlled by economically and racially privileged elites – decentralization is key to stop that cycle**
**Hoffman and Pippert 5** [Steven M. Hoffman, PhD, Professor of Political Science at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota, and Angela High-Pippert, PhD, Director of Women's Studies at the University of St. Thomas, and serves on the ACTC Women's Studies Coordinating Committee, “Community Energy: A Social Architecture for an Alternative Energy Future”, Bulletin of Science Technology & Society 2005 25: 387]
According to Theda [...] democratic social apparatus.

**Centralized control over oil energy makes elitist violence inevitable due to manipulation and a lack of accountability – decentralizing solves**
**Champain 11** [Phil, Director of Programs at the peacebuilding NGO International Alert, “Changing energy provision – a peacebuilding opportunity?”, January]
There is one [...] of our societies.

===1ac scranton=== 
====1ac peak==== 
=====1ac lashout===== 

Added round 6:

**Peak oil means that authoritarian leaders come into power**
**Freeman 4** (Richard, journalist on education and econ, “Will The End of Oil Mean The End of America?” http://www.commondreams.org/views04/0301-12.htm)
In his first released tape after 9/11, Osama bin Laden stated that he carried out the attacks for three reasons: 1) to drive US military forces from Saudi Arabia, the most sacred place of Islam; 2) to avenge the deaths of over half a million Iraqi children killed, according to UNICEF, as a result of the US-sponsored embargo of the 1990s; and, 3) to punish US sponsorship of Israeli oppression against the Palestinian people. Oil and the need to control it are critically implicated in all three reasons. But now comes the sobering part. In response to the 9/11 attacks, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld stated that the US was engaged in a thirty to forty year war (!) against fundamentalist Islam. It is the fever of War, of course, that becomes the all-purpose justification for the rollback of civil liberties. Lincoln used the Civil War to justify the suspension of habeas corpus. Roosevelt used the cover of World War II to inter hundreds of thousands of Japanese Americans. And now Bush is using the self-ratcheting War on Terror to effect even more sweeping, perhaps permanent rescissions of civil liberties. Under the Patriot Act, a person can be arrested without probable cause, held indefinitely without being charged, tried without a lawyer or a jury, sentenced without the opportunity to appeal, and put to death all without notification of anybody. This is simply a Soviet Gulag and it has been rationalized by the hysterical over-hyping of the War on Terror. The fact that it is not yet widespread does not diminish the more important fact that it has been put in place precisely in anticipation of such procedures needing to be being carried out on a mass scale in the future. The broader implications of the Patriot Acts go far beyond the abusive treatment of criminals or terrorists. Their portent can be glimpsed in the language used to justify them. When Attorney General John Ashcroft testified on behalf of the Act, he stated, those who oppose us are providing aid and comfort to the enemy. These are carefully chosen words. Aid and comfort to the enemy are the words used in the Constitution to define Treason, the most fateful of crimes against the state. In other words, protest against the government the singular right without which America would not even existis now being defined as trying to overthrow the government. And by the internal logic of a global Oil Empire, this is entirely reasonable. The needs of the people of any one country must be subordinated to the larger agenda of Empire itself. This is what the Romans learned in 27 B.C. when Augustus proclaimed himself Emperor. It was the end of the Roman Republic and the disappearance of representative government on earth for almost 1,700 years, until the English Civil Wars in the 1600s. That is the reality we are confronting today offering up our democracy in propitiation to an Empire for Oil. It will be a fateful, irreversible decision. Returning to Pirsigs metaphor, the choice of a Grab the Oil strategy is the equivalent of the monkey holding onto the handful of food, remaining trapped by the coconut. It is an ironclad guarantee of escalating global conflict, isolation of the US in the world, unremitting attacks on the US by those whose oil is being expropriated and whose societies are being dominated, the militarization of the US economy, the irreversible rescission of civil liberties, and the eventual extinguishment of American democracy itself. It is the conscious, self-inflicted consignment to political and economic death.

====1ac grid==== 
=====1ac storms===== 

Added rounds 2 and 6:

**Nuclear meltdowns cause extinction**
**Wasserman** 20**02** (March 22, Earth Island Journal), http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/10/00_wasserman_nuclear-threat.htm)
The intense radioactive heat within today's operating reactors is the hottest anywhere on the planet. So are the hellish levels of radioactivity. Because Indian Point has operated so long, its accumulated radioactive burden far exceeds that of Chernobyl, which ran only four years before it exploded. Some believe the WTC jets could have collapsed or breached either of the Indian Point containment domes. But at very least the massive impact and intense jet fuel fire would destroy the human ability to control the plants' functions. Vital cooling systems, backup power generators and communications networks would crumble. Indeed, Indian Point Unit One was shut because activists warned that its lack of an emergency core cooling system made it an unacceptable risk. The government ultimately agreed. But today terrorist attacks could destroy those same critical cooling and control systems that are vital to not only the Unit Two and Three reactor cores, but to the spent fuel pools that sit on site. The assault would not require a large jet. The safety systems are extremely complex and virtually indefensible. One or more could be wiped out with a wide range of easily deployed small aircraft, ground-based weapons, truck bombs or even chemical/biological assaults aimed at the operating work force. Dozens of US reactors have repeatedly failed even modest security tests over the years. Even heightened wartime standards cannot guarantee protection of the vast, supremely sensitive controls required for reactor safety. Without continous monitoring and guaranteed water flow, the thousands of tons of radioactive rods in the cores and the thousands more stored in those fragile pools would rapidly melt into super-hot radioactive balls of lava that would burn into the ground and the water table and, ultimately, the Hudson. Indeed, a jetcrash like the one on 9/11 or other forms of terrorist assault at Indian Point could yield three infernal fireballs of molten radioactive lava burning through the earth and into the aquifer and the river. Striking water they would blast gigantic billows of horribly radioactive steam into the atmosphere. Prevailing winds from the north and west might initially drive these clouds of mass death downriver into New York City and east into Westchester and Long Island. But at Three Mile Island and Chernobyl, winds ultimately shifted around the compass to irradiate all surrounding areas with the devastating poisons released by the on-going fiery torrent. At Indian Point, thousands of square miles would have been saturated with the most lethal clouds ever created or imagined, depositing relentless genetic poisons that would kill forever. In nearby communities like Buchanan, Nyack, Monsey and scores more, infants and small children would quickly die en masse. Virtually all pregnant women would spontaneously abort, or ultimately give birth to horribly deformed offspring. Ghastly sores, rashes, ulcerations and burns would afflict the skin of millions. Emphysema, heart attacks, stroke, multiple organ failure, hair loss, nausea, inability to eat or drink or swallow, diarrhea and incontinance, sterility and impotence, asthma, blindness, and more would kill thousands on the spot, and doom hundreds of thousands if not millions. A terrible metallic taste would afflict virtually everyone downwind in New York, New Jersey and New England, a ghoulish curse similar to that endured by the fliers who dropped the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagaskai, by those living downwind from nuclear bomb tests in the south seas and Nevada, and by victims caught in the downdrafts from Three Mile Island and Chernobyl. Then comes the abominable wave of cancers, leukemias, lymphomas, tumors and hellish diseases for which new names will have to be invented, and new dimensions of agony will beg description. Indeed, those who survived the initial wave of radiation would envy those who did not. Evacuation would be impossible, but thousands would die trying. Bridges and highways would become killing fields for those attempting to escape to destinations that would soon enough become equally deadly as the winds shifted. Attempts to quench the fires would be futile. At Chernobyl, pilots flying helicopters that dropped boron on the fiery core died in droves. At Indian Point, such missions would be a sure ticket to death. Their utility would be doubtful as the molten cores rage uncontrolled for days, weeks and years, spewing ever more devastation into the eco-sphere. More than 800,000 Soviet draftees were forced through Chernobyl's seething remains in a futile attempt to clean it up. They are dying in droves. Who would now volunteer for such an American task force? The radioactive cloud from Chernobyl blanketed the vast Ukraine and Belarus landscape, then carried over Europe and into the jetstream, surging through the west coast of the United States within ten days, carrying across our northern tier, circling the globe, then coming back again. The radioactive clouds from Indian Point would enshroud New York, New Jersey, New England, and carry deep into the Atlantic and up into Canada and across to Europe and around the globe again and again. The immediate damage would render thousands of the world's most populous and expensive square miles permanently uninhabitable. All five boroughs of New York City would be an apocalyptic wasteland. The World Trade Center would be rendered as unusable and even more lethal by a jet crash at Indian Point than it was by the direct hits of 9/11. All real estate and economic value would be poisonously radioactive throughout the entire region. Irreplaceable trillions in human capital would be forever lost. As at Three Mile Island, where thousands of farm and wild animals died in heaps, and as at Chernobyl, where soil, water and plant life have been hopelessly irradiated, natural eco-systems on which human and all other life depends would be permanently and irrevocably destroyed, Spiritually, psychologically, financially, ecologically, our nation would never recover. This is what we missed by a mere forty miles near New York City on September 11. Now that we are at war, this is what could be happening as you read this. There are 103 of these potential Bombs of the Apocalypse now operating in the United States.

=====1ac emp===== 

Broken round 4:

**Probability of an EMP attack is certain and will causes multiple routes to extinction**
**Koenig 6** (Don, writer and author who extensively examines current world events and trends, “Electromagnetic pulse (EMP) caused by a nuclear explosion high over the United States - Imminent danger to the U.S. # 1,” http://www.thepropheticyears.com/comments/Imminent%20danger%201%20-%20Electromagnetic%20Pulse%20explosion%20%28EMP%29%20over%20the%20United%20States.htm ;)
U.S. vulnerability - The U.S. is more vulnerable than any other nation on earth to an EMP because she has become totally dependent on electricity and electronics for just about everything used in everyday living. This vulnerability has come about in the last few decades. All of the major enemies of the U.S. are aware of this vulnerability and that this is the easiest way to cripple the United States. Russia has this capability and tested it during the cold war. Some officials from Russia suggested they could use this capability against the United States in 1999 during the Balkans conflict. China now has this capability, and U.S. intelligence sources say that North Korea and Iran are actively developing the technology and capability. Terrorist groups could get the capability from any one of these countries or from a few other countries either directly or by theft. The weapon could be delivered by a Scud missile hidden under a tarp from a medium sized ship in the shipping lanes off the coast of the United States. Scud missiles are available in the weapons market for about $100,000. If the United States were attacked with this weapon the country may find it very difficult if not impossible to retaliate. Finding out who was responsible might not be easy especially if it was done by state sponsored terrorists or if terrorists carried it out on their own. If the U.S. responded in kind over a country like North Korea, it would not significantly change their way of life and if the U.S. nuked their cities without serious proof I can foresee a collective world reaction against the United States that would only make substantial recovery in the U.S. more difficult if not impossible. Even conventional warfare may not be possible because our military would have to be recalled to the United States to restore domestic order. EMP Effects - total blackout - Y2K + X to the nth power – A large EMP would actualize the perceived Y2K threat of the year 2000 except the effects of an EMP would be many magnitudes worse than anyone's worst nightmare about Y2K. A large EMP would cause the immediate collapse of the North American power grid and the destruction of much unshielded electronic equipment in the area of the pulse. The extent of the pulse depends on many factors; it could hit the whole nation, a good part of the nation, or be more local. Those who would attempt such an attack would seek to maximize the extent of the damage so more than likely, the pulse would hit much if not most of the United States. The EMP pulse itself has three components with each subsequent component causing further damage. An EMP is generated when Gamma Rays from a high altitude nuclear explosion interact with the atmosphere to produce a radio frequency wave pulse that would hit everything in line of sight of the explosion. A small crude nuclear weapon exploded high above the United States could create a devastating pulse. If an EMP hit a large part of the United States it would not cause just a temporary power outage. It could take months or even years to get power back to most of the United States. Electronic equipment and power generating equipment in power plants themselves would be damaged and there will be no way of easily replacing this equipment. Even if the equipment were not damaged the grid could not easily be brought back up. It takes a source of power to bring up modern power plants to put them back on line. Just bringing up the whole U.S. grid from scratch would take weeks or months. Even if the blackout were only for weeks, the disruption to the United States would be immense. In a matter of hours there would be large-scale looting in the major cities and in days there would be riots in all large cities over food and water. Marshal Law would be declared and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) would nationalize all police forces and take control over managing the people of the United States. All available military would be following the directives of DHS as well. A major EMP over a large part of the United States would cause all major transportation systems to break down. Most means of communication would not be possible. There would be no TV, little radio, no useable cell phone systems, no Internet system and no food or water distribution other than through the direction of Homeland Security. All essentials would be rationed. Those carrying out the DHS directives would confiscate all known critical supplies. The civil disorder and disruptions that have taken place in New Orleans and southern Mississippi in the aftermath of hurricane Katrina are a small example of what would take place nationwide after an EMP. In that case massive aid from the rest of the nation eased the crisis but after an EMP the whole nation will be coping with the crisis and little aid will be possible. All able bodied manpower in the United States would have to report for assignments directed by Homeland Security. All financial assets would be frozen. There would be no access to any money, the stock market would be closed and the U.S dollar would become near worthless on the world market. For weeks, months, and perhaps years there could be little gross national product in the United States. The U.S is the largest debtor nation in the world so she would be forced to default on her debt bringing about a massive world depression. Even after the power was brought back up, it would be likely that much of the electronically controlled infrastructure systems would have to be totally replaced. This could take many years. Meanwhile, financial assets in every category either would become worthless or lose tremendous value. All financial bubbles will burst. Likelihood of this threat occurring before A.D 2025? If significant military action is not taken against Iran and North Korea (if they do not immediately abandon their nuclear weapons program), it is almost certain that one or more EMP attacks will be attempted with the likelihood of success being high. The possibility of a successful EMP attack before 2025 AD would in my opinion be at least a 7 on a scale of 1-10.

**Specifically – EMP attack is likely and kills GPS satellites**
**Neely 12** (Keith, Writer for The Foundry, “National EMP Awareness Day,” http://blog.heritage.org/2012/08/15/national-emp-awareness-day/ ;)
An electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack constitutes one of the single greatest threats to modern national security. Typically triggered by a high-altitude nuclear warhead, an EMP can damage unprotected electronic devices, disrupt communications, and permanently destroy American infrastructure. The 2008 Graham Commission lists a host of likely outcomes to a successful strike: planes falling from the sky, cars stalling on the roadways, electrical networks failing, food rotting—the list continues for pages. Yet very little has been done in recent years to prepare the U.S. for an EMP attack, even as the likelihood of that attack from rogue regimes and terrorist organizations has increased. Since 2008, five separate bills have aimed at bolstering American preparedness for an EMP attack, but none have made it out of committee. Even military installations, most of which had been EMP-hardened during the Cold War, remain vulnerable because of their reliance on unprotected commercial technology, such as GPS satellites.

**GPS operation is key to sustain agricultural yield**
**GPS.gov 11** (“Agriculture,” National Coordination Office for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing, http://www.gps.gov/applications/agriculture/)
Precision agriculture is now changing the way farmers and agribusinesses view the land from which they reap their profits. Precision agriculture is about collecting timely geospatial information on soil-plant-animal requirements and prescribing and applying site-specific treatments to increase agricultural production and protect the environment. Where farmers may have once treated their fields uniformly, they are now seeing benefits from micromanaging their fields. Precision agriculture is gaining in popularity largely due to the introduction of high technology tools into the agricultural community that are more accurate, cost effective, and user friendly. Many of the new innovations rely on the integration of on-board computers, data collection sensors, and GPS time and position reference systems. Many believe that the benefits of precision agriculture can only be realized on large farms with huge capital investments and experience with information technologies. Such is not the case. There are inexpensive and easy-to-use methods and techniques that can be developed for use by all farmers. Through the use of GPS, GIS, and remote sensing, information needed for improving land and water use can be collected. Farmers can achieve additional benefits by combining better utilization of fertilizers and other soil amendments, determining the economic threshold for treating pest and weed infestations, and protecting the natural resources for future use. GPS equipment manufacturers have developed several tools to help farmers and agribusinesses become more productive and efficient in their precision farming activities. Today, many farmers use GPS-derived products to enhance operations in their farming businesses. Location information is collected by GPS receivers for mapping field boundaries, roads, irrigation systems, and problem areas in crops such as weeds or disease. The accuracy of GPS allows farmers to create farm maps with precise acreage for field areas, road locations and distances between points of interest. GPS allows farmers to accurately navigate to specific locations in the field, year after year, to collect soil samples or monitor crop conditions. Crop advisors use rugged data collection devices with GPS for accurate positioning to map pest, insect, and weed infestations in the field. Pest problem areas in crops can be pinpointed and mapped for future management decisions and input recommendations. The same field data can also be used by aircraft sprayers, enabling accurate swathing of fields without use of human “flaggers” to guide them. Crop dusters equipped with GPS are able to fly accurate swaths over the field, applying chemicals only where needed, minimizing chemical drift, reducing the amount of chemicals needed, thereby benefiting the environment. GPS also allows pilots to provide farmers with accurate maps. Farmers and agriculture service providers can expect even further improvements as GPS continues to modernize. In addition to the current civilian service provided by GPS, the United States is committed to implementing a second and a third civil signal on GPS satellites. The first satellite with the second civilian signal was launched in 2005. The new signals will enhance both the quality and efficiency of agricultural operations in the future.

**Nuke war**
**Calvin 98** (William, theoretical neurophysiologist at the University of Washington, ATLANTIC MONTHLY, January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, Vol 281, No. 1, 1998, p. 47)
The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields would cause some powerful countries to try to take over their neighbors or distant lands -- if only because their armies, unpaid and lacking food, would go marauding, both at home and across the borders. The better-organized countries would attempt to use their armies, before they fell apart entirely, to take over countries with significant remaining resources, driving out or starving their inhabitants if not using modern weapons to accomplish the same end: eliminating competitors for the remaining food. This would be a worldwide problem -- and could lead to a Third World War -- but Europe's vulnerability is particularly easy to analyze. The last abrupt cooling, the Younger Dryas, drastically altered Europe's climate as far east as Ukraine. Present-day Europe has more than 650 million people. It has excellent soils, and largely grows its own food. It could no longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.

**It’s a D-Rule**
**Watson 77** philosophy professor, Washington University, WORLD HUNGER AND MORAL OBLIGATION, 1977, pp. 118-9.
One may even have to sacrifice one’s life or one’s nation to be moral in situations where practical behavior would preserve it. For example, if a prisoner of war undergoing torture is to be a (perhaps dead) patriot even when reason tells him that collaboration will hurt no one, he remains silent. Similarly, if one is to be moral, one distributes available food in equal shares even if everyone dies. That an action is necessary to save one’s life is no excuse for behaving unpatriotically or immorally if one wishes to be a patriot or moral. No principle of morality absolves one of behaving immorally simply to save one’s life or nation. There is a strict analogy here between adhering to moral principles for the sake of being moral, and adhering to Christian principles for the sake of being Christian. The moral world contains pits and lions, but one looks always to the highest light. The ultimate test always harks back to the highest principle – recant or die. The ultimate test always harks back to the highest principle – recant or die – and it is pathetic to profess morality if one quits when the going gets rough.

**GPS solves Caribbean narcoterror**
**Purdy 8** (Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, “The Increasing Role of Robots in National Security” May-June 2008, Defense AT&L, pg 27)
In U.S. Southern Command's area of responsibility in Central and South America and the Caribbean, one of the most significant threats to national security is the drug trade and narco-terrorism. Drug revenues finance and equip terrorists and insurgents, so if the movement of drugs can be interdicted, then funding for insurgents dries up. A significant challenge for SOUTHCOM is the immense variety ofmountainous and jungle terrain that is difficult to see and maneuver through, for which reasons, it is a haven for drug traffickers and insurgents. Since so much of the drug trade operates in jungle conditions, and transport is largely conducted by river, SOUTHCOM is exploring whether different robotic systems could operate together to conduct reconnaissance and interdiction missions. Reduced Risk of Casualty Unmanned aerial vehicles equipped with foliage-penetrating radar could potentially scout areas of interest. If suspicious activity is detected, the aerial vehicle would then send global positioning system coordinates to unmanned vehicles on the ground or on a river, enabling the vehicles to conduct reconnaissance closer to the area of interest. Vast areas could be covered by the unmanned systems, and personnel would be sent in only after confirmation that interdiction is warranted. This is an idea that capitalizes on the advantages of robotics. Robots can operate for long periods without becoming fatigued and losing their sharp perception--they don't get tired or hungry--and they keep personnel from being detected and harmed by insurgents.

**Caribbean security key to prevent Latin American instability, bioterror, and LNG attacks**
**Bryan 1** Anthony T. Bryan, Director of the Caribbean Program – North/South Center, and Stephen E. Flynn, Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation”, 10-21-2001, http://www.cfr.org/publication/4844/terrorism_porous_borders_and _homeland_ security.html
Terrorist acts can take place anywhere. The Caribbean is no exception. Already the linkages between drug trafficking and terrorism are clear in countries like Colombia and Peru, and such connections have similar potential in the Caribbean. The security of major industrial complexes in some Caribbean countries is vital. Petroleum refineries and major industrial estates in Trinidad, which host more than 100 companies that produce the majority of the world’s methanol, ammonium sulphate, and 40 percent of U.S. imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG), are vulnerable targets. Unfortunately, as experience has shown in Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America, terrorists are likely to strike at U.S. and European interests in Caribbean countries. Security issues become even more critical when one considers the possible use of Caribbean countries by terrorists as bases from which to attack the United States. An airliner hijacked after departure from an airport in the northern Caribbean or the Bahamas can be flying over South Florida in less than an hour. Terrorists can sabotage or seize control of a cruise ship after the vessel leaves a Caribbean port. Moreover, terrorists with false passports and visas issued in the Caribbean may be able to move easily through passport controls in Canada or the United States. (To help counter this possibility, some countries have suspended "economic citizenship" programs to ensure that known terrorists have not been inadvertently granted such citizenship.) Again, Caribbean countries are as vulnerable as anywhere else to the clandestine manufacture and deployment of biological weapons within national borders.

**LNG explosions outweigh nuclear war**
**Lovin and Lovin 1** Amory B. Lovin, Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute, and L. Hunter Lovin, President – National Capitalism and Co-Founder – Rocky Mountain Institute, “Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security”, 2001, http://verdilivorno.it/doc_gnl/198204_Brittle_Power_intro_GNL_note.pdf
About nine percent of such a tankerload of LNG will probably, if spilled onto water, boil to gas in about five minutes. It does not matter how cold the water is; it will be at least two hundred twenty-eight Fahrenheit degrees hotter than the LNG, which it will therefore cause to boil violently.) The resulting gas, however, will be so cold that it will still be denser than air. It will therefore flow in a cloud or plume along the surface until it reaches an ignition source. Such a plume might extend at least three miles downwind from a large tanker spill within ten to twenty minutes.4 It might ultimately reach much farther—perhaps six to twelve miles.5 If not ignited, the gas is asphyxiating. If ignited, it will burn to completion with a turbulent diffusion flame reminiscent of the 1937 Hindenberg disaster but about a hundred times as big. Such a fireball would burn everything within it, and by its radiant heat would cause third-degree burns and start fires a mile or two away.6 An LNG fireball can blow through a city, creating “a very large number of ignitions and explosions across a wide area. No present or foreseeable equipment can put out a very large [LNG]... fire.”7 The energy content of a single standard LNG tanker (one hundred twenty-five thousand cubic meters) is equivalent to seven-tenths of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.

**Bioweapons outweigh nuclear war and spread globally – none of their impact defense applies**
**Levy, 07** [6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html])
Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating from letters containing anthrax spores infected 22 people, killing five. After almost six years, the case has not been solved. Intelligence analysts and academics report that North Korea has developed anthrax, plague, and botulism toxin and conducted extensive research on smallpox, typhoid and cholera. A world-renowned bioweapons expert has confirmed that Syria has weapons grade smallpox resistant to all current vaccines developed under the cover of legitimate veterinary research on camelpox, a very closely related virus. The researcher further reports that Syria is suspected of testing the pathogen on prison populations and possibly in the Sudan.Although there are close to 50 organisms that could be used offensively, rogue nations have concentrated their bioweapons development efforts on smallpox, anthrax, plague, botulinum, tularemia and viral hemorrhagic fevers. With the exception of smallpox, which is exclusively a human host disease, all of the other pathogens lend themselves to animal testing as they are zoonotic, or can be transmitted to humans by other species. Biological weapons are among the most dangerous in the world today and can be engineered and disseminated to achieve a more deadly result than a nuclear attack. Whereas the explosion of a nuclear bomb would cause massive death in a specific location, a biological attack with smallpox could infect multitudes of people across the globe. With incubation periods of up to 17 days, human disseminators could unwittingly cause widespread exposure before diagnosable symptoms indicate an infection and appropriate quarantine procedures are in place. Unlike any other type of weapon, bioweapons such as smallpox can replicate and infect a chain of people over an indeterminate amount of time from a single undetectable point of release. According to science writer and author of The Hot Zone, Richard Preston, "If you took a gram of smallpox, which is highly contagious and lethal, and for which there's no vaccine available globally now, and released it in the air and created about a hundred cases, the chances are excellent that the virus would go global in six weeks as people moved from city to city......the death toll could easily hit the hundreds of millions.....in scale, that's like a nuclear war."[1] More so than chemical and nuclear research, bioweapons development programs lend themselves to stealth development. They are difficult to detect, can be conducted alongside legimate research on countermeasures, sheltered in animal research facilities within sophisticated pharmaceutical corporations, disguised as part of routine medical university studies, or be a component of dual use technology development. Detection is primarily through available intelligence information and location-specific biosensors that test for the presence of pathogens. Biological weapons have many appealing qualities for warfare and their effects can be engineered and customized from a boutique of possibilities. Offensive pathogens are inexpensive compared to conventional weapons and small quantities can produce disproportionate damage. They have unlimited lethal potential as carriers and can continue to infect more people over time. Bioweapons are easy to dispense through a variety of delivery systems from a missile, an aerosol or a food product. They can be placed into a state of dormancy to be activated at a later stage allowing for ease of storage. Pathogens are not immediately detectable or identifiable due to varying incubation periods and can be rapidly deployed, activated and impossible to trace. The technology to develop biological agents is widely available for legitimate purposes and large quantities can be developed within days.

===1ac blake=== 
====1ac grid==== 

**A downed power grid outweighs nuclear war**
**Business Wire 12** (News Website, Citing Hacking Expert David Chalk, “Hacking Expert David Chalk Joins Urgent Call to Halt Smart Grid,” http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20120412005992/en/Hacking-Expert-David-Chalk-Joins-Urgent-Call ;)
“Unless we wake up and realize what we're doing, there is 100% certainty of total catastrophic failure of the entire power infrastructure within 3 years,” said Chalk. “This could actually be worse than a nuclear war, because it would happen everywhere. How governments and utilities are blindly merging the power grid with the Internet, and effectively without any protection, is insanity at its finest.”

=====1ac emp===== 

Agriculture impact was removed; these cards were added --

**Attack is coming and countries have capacity to launch**
**Venetis 11** (Alisha, co-founder of www.thePrepRoom.net, “Bringing America To Its Knees With An EMP Attack,” http://disasterandemergencysurvival.com/archives/bringing-america-to-its-knees-with-an-emp-attack ;)
An EMP is a high-intensity burst of electromagnetic energy caused by the rapid acceleration of charged particles; similar to lightening, but shorter, much stronger and faster. An EMP can be caused by nuclear weapons, radio-frequency weapons, or geomagnetic storms (often called space weather). An EMP terrorist attack, which has been called a weapon of “mass disruption”, can be triggered by the detonation of a nuclear weapon at a high altitude over the United States. Most terrorism experts agree that an EMP is the biggest and greatest threat to America. It would likely render useless, not just all computers and small electronics, but all critical infrastructures, such as communications, transportation, banking, and food and water distribution chains. A successful EMP attack could result in airplanes literally falling from the sky, streets and highways instantly becoming graveyards for inoperable automobiles and non-functioning traffic signals, and water, sewer, and electrical networks failing...all at once. Without electricity, food would rot, health care would be reduced to its most basic level and, pretty much, your only means of transportation would be a bicycle. Rule of law would become impossible to sustain. Police departments would be overwhelmed and most civil service employees would not even show up to help, because they'd be at home taking care of their own families. Effectively, the U.S. would be thrown back to the pre-industrial age and life as we know it would be forever changed in a matter of seconds. In 2004 and 2008, The Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from an EMP, released a report, stating that an EMP attack could inflict severe damage on the U.S. and that an “EMP is one of a small number of threats that can hold our society at risk of catastrophic consequences”. The commission was very clear as to what an EMP could do to America. “Should significant parts of the electrical power infrastructure be lost for any substantial period of time, the Commission believes that the consequences are likely to be catastrophic, and many people may ultimately die of lack of the basic elements necessary to sustain life in dense urban and suburban communities.” Today, more than ever, the likelihood of an EMP attack is very real. Since an EMP attack can be executed with simple ballistics, this currently leaves about 30 countries the ability to launch an EMP attack. North Korea currently owns a large arsenal of missiles and has been publicly testing its ballistic weapons. It has also been reported that Russian scientists have worked with North Korea and tested an EMP this year. The most disconcerting of all the countries is the latest one to have joined the nuclear weapons fraternity; Iran. Iranians have already practiced in the Caspian Sea. Although we may look at their tests as failures, because their missiles blow up mid flight, to the Iranian regime, the tests are a success. The spiritual leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, once said “If the world's industrial countries fail to devise effective ways to defend themselves against dangerous electronic assaults, then they will disintegrate within a few years. American soldiers would not be able to find food to eat, nor would they be able to fire a single shot.” EMPs’ are so effective; it is believed that the USA has contemplated using one against the Iranians as well.

**Decentralization of the energy grid deters attacks**
**National Energy Technology Laboratory 7** (Department of the DOE, March 2007, “The Smart Grid,” http://www.pdhengineer.com/courses/e/E-5006.pdf ;)
Third, the Modern Grid will resist attack. Security requires a system-wide solution that will reduce physical and cyber vulnerabilities and recovers rapidly from disruptions. Both its design and its operation will discourage attacks, minimize their consequences and speed service restoration. It will also withstand simultaneous attacks against several parts of the electric system and the possibility of multiple, coordinated attacks over a span of time. Modern grid security protocols will contain elements of deterrence, prevention, detection, response, and mitigation to minimize impact on the grid and the economy. A less susceptible and more resilient grid will make it a less desirable target of terrorists.

====1ac offshore wind==== 

Broken round 7 --

**Offshore wind farms are being developed in the US now**
Jared **Anderson**, July 2nd, 20**12** (AOL Energy, “Offshore Wind Energy Developers Focus on Northeast US Shores,” http://energy.aol.com/2012/07/02/offshore-wind-energy-arriving-on-northeast-us-shores/ >:)
The US is looking to expand the power generating capacity of wind beyond its coastline. RECOMMENDED FOR YOU Technology To (the Future) Mr. President: Our Energy Problem Won't be Solved with Incomplete Equations The economics can be complex – particularly if the production tax credit expires at the end of 2012 - but offshore wind has the potential to become an affordable source of electricity for some of the largest US markets. Offshore wind will first be developed in the northeast and then expand to other parts of the country as technology improves and costs decrease, Deepwater Wind CEO Bill Moore told the audience at the Renewable Energy Finance Forum Wall Street summit recently held in New York. See earlier coverage from the conference here. Northern New Jersey, New York City and Long Island are attractive to offshore wind developers because they are large markets with substantial onshore loads, existing power networks and relatively low interconnection costs, said Moore. The power generated from an offshore wind farm in the New York metropolitan area could be cheaper than electricity generated from onshore installations in upstate NY, Moore told AOL Energy on the sidelines of the conference. Where the Wind Blows Offshore coastal regions also have a natural advantage over onshore locations – sea breezes. "I think we can beat upstate wind just flat out based on the higher on-peak capacity factor, because utility loads in New York City and Long Island on hot days are driven by air conditioning requirements and those same high pressure systems that give us these hundred degree days also give us daily sea breezes, it's the same phenomenon," said Moore. The ability to generate power from strong winds during peak demand periods is a big advantage that Moore says could make offshore wind even cheaper than solar in the New York City market. "It helps reduce your delivered cost because you are producing a lot more at peak [demand periods] when energy is worth a lot more." Wholesale price suppression is a positive attribute of offshore wind, explained Moore. "We displace the most expensive generators at the top of the stack and we can really - during those peak periods - create reductions in the market clearing price for that hour that we're generating – that are very substantial." The price effect at the wholesale level in combination with economies of scale from bigger projects and bigger turbines can help to significantly lower electricity costs for consumers. "If you compare a wind farm made up of 3.6 MW turbines versus one made out of 6 MW turbines, that's 40% fewer structures you have to install and maintain over the life of the project – that means one-third less steel and the savings add up quickly." The projects that Deepwater Wind is proposing are much larger than the Cape Wind project. Cape Wind gets a lot of media and industry attention because it is farther along the development process and has a power purchase agreement in place. But Moore said Deepwater's projects will be farther offshore - beyond the horizon – and have much bigger turbines on much windier sites. He believes that will be the model that leads US offshore wind development. The company is currently working to develop four main projects along the coast from New Jersey to Rhode Island and has ambitions to connect the central PJM network with New York City. One of Deepwater's proposals is under review with the Long Island Power Authority.

**The plan solves – using transmission corridors for wind installations resolves the detrimental environmental effects of offshore wind – large turbine blades, empirics and extensive planning process means there’s a low risk of accidents**
Gar **Lipow**, January 9th. 20**09** (Grist guest contributor, “Upgrade freight rail: Save 12 percent of oil, 4 percent of emissions, and jumpstart renewable grid,” http://grist.org/article/game-changer/ >:)
One last step Drake takes about which I’m not too enthusiastic — though if it can be made to work, I would be very enthusiastic: Many rail rights-of-way pass through really good wind sites. Drake suggests that we take advantage of advanced freight rail to ship 5 meg turbines (which are normally used only offshore because they are too big to ship over U.S. roads) and to install them right along the rail rights-of-way, essentially building long, skinny wind farms. Now there are major advantages to this proposal: It minimizes the environmental consequences of large wind farms, and train access makes maintenance easy. My concern is that putting giant spinning blades next to critical power lines and critical transport lines puts too many points of failure too close together. Drake argues that the risk is small because blade accidents mainly happen with small blades. But you have to consider consequences of failure, not just probability of failure, and very small probabilities become larger when multiplied by hundreds of thousands of turbines. I’m not saying absolutely that this should be ruled out. But I would be much more cautious than Drake. Running HVDC power lines near electric railroads is something that other nations have already tried; the addition of wind turbines to that mix is new. I would want a lot of input from both the utility and wind industry before considering it. At any rate this is not as big a difference as it seems. Drake supports an extensive planning process before implementing it. So really the only disagreement is not a policy disagreement, but differing judgment about what a process we both support is likely to conclude. I would add that these long-distance transmission lines, even without wind generators along the rights-of-way are likely to free a lot of “stranded wind” and make it easier still to “unstrand.”

=====1ac whales===== 

**Offshore wind farms will devastate whale populations – construction triggers the impact**
Dona **Tracy**, August 21st, 20**07** (reporter, Gather, “Greenpeace: Promotes Deadly Hazard to Whales and Dolphins,” http://www.gather.com/viewArticle.jsp?articleId=281474977092483 >:)
There was a time when Greenpeace would throw itself in front of whaling boats to protect whales from harm but, now, this same organization, funded by tax deductible contributions from whale lovers, is throwing itself and its money, $40,000, behind a two week political ad campaign to promote an industrial development, Cape Wind (a 130 440 foot tall wind turbine project slated for 25 square miles of the Nantucket Sound off the coast of Cape Cod, MA), that can cause serious effects to those same endangered marine mammals. According to The Whale and Dolphin Society new studies show off shore wind farms pose potentially devastating threats to whales and dolphins during and after construction. The acoustic impact of pile driving, can be heard by marine creatures in shallow water up to 80km (50 miles) away, permanently damaging their hearing at close range and causing dramatic changes to their behavior at distances of 20km (approximately 12.5 miles). Additionally, the laying of cables and disturbance from service vessels will mean the damage will continue long after construction is over.

**Extinction**
**Barstow ’89** (Robbins, PhD, Exec Dir – Cetasean Society International, The Magazine of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society, No. 2, Autumn, http://www.highnorth.no/Library/Movements/General/be-wh-s2.htm)
My own rationale for asking the IWC to decide to adopt a management regime of permanent protection for whales from consumptive commercial exploitation on a global basis is both simple and complex. It is grounded i pragmatic practicalities of both fact and feeling regarding 'Whales in a Modern World'. I am not here arguing for the sanctity of all life on earth. I am not advocating equal rights for all animal species. I am seeking to set forth a rational and moral basis for a future determination by one, specialised, international, human agency that one order of marine mammals should be managed in this manner. Why whales? My rationale most simply is that whales are uniquely special! They really are in a class by themselves. Let me cite four major categories of uniqueness. First, whales are biologically special. Whales include by far the largest animals on earth, growing to be over 30 metres in length - the blue whale (Balenoptera musculus). Whales include the possessors of by far the largest brain of any creature ever to have lived on our planet, weighing four or five times as much as the human brain - the sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). Whales include the creators of the most complex, long - lasting, repetitive sound patterns of any non - human animal - the humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae). And whales include species (Tursiops truncatus and some other odontocetes) which exceed humans and all other groups as well in convolutedness or fissurisation of the cerebral cortex. Marine mammal veterinarian Sam Ridgway, of the U.S. Naval Ocean Systems Centre in San Diego, has reported findings that the bottlenose dolphin, in particular, by a variety of measurements (encephalisation quotient, volume of cortex, ratio of brain weight to spinal cord weight, etc.) ranks just below humans and considerably above other higher primates, including gorillas, chimpanzees, and orangutans. In all these ways whales are truly unique biologically! Second, whales are ecologically special. Whales have evolved as marine mammals over millions of years, with both baleen and toothed whales probably appearing up to 25 million years ago, long before the development of human beings and the latter's intrusion in the ocean ecosystem. Whales are at the top of the vast food chain of the sea. Baleen whales consume the largest amount of zooplankton, and the killer whale (Orcinus orca) is the world's greatest non- human predator. Whales affect the ocean ecosystem in a uniquely global manner, and any exploitation of other marine resources, whether krill or fish, must uniquely take into account cetaceans. Human life depends upon a proper balance in the amount of oxygen in earth's atmosphere produced from the plankton that is kept in check most critically by whale consumption.

=====1ac padre island===== 

**Offshore wind turbines will be developed in the Gulf of Mexico now, destroying Padre Island – jeopardizes sea turtle populations and massively increases the amount of bird casualties**
Billy **Sandifer**, October 25, 20**11** (I have fished Padre Island for 53 years and have been the only licensed fishing guide and naturalist providing tours on the National Seashore for the past 22 years. On average I am down island about 128 days per year. I am the founder of the Big Shell Beach Cleanup and have been its primary organizer for the past 17 years. During that time, 2.3 million pounds of debris has been removed by this volunteer effort. In 2010, I was chosen as one of the six Heroes of Conservation by Field & Stream Magazine. I received the first ever Lifetime Conservation Award from the Coastal Conservation Association and this year was the popular choice winner of the Making a Difference Award competition sponsored by Sports Fishing Magazine. Caller.com writer, Wildlife, offshore wind turbines a bad mix, http://www.caller.com/news/2011/oct/25/wildlife-offshore-wind-turbines-a-bad-mix/ >:)
Wildlife, offshore wind turbines a bad mix. In early September I encountered what I roughly estimated were 750,000 black terns on Padre Island National Seashore. This represents only a fraction of the native and migratory birds on the island. Padre is recognized as a Globally Important Bird Area by the American Bird Conservancy and a site of hemispheric importance by the Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network. Following that sighting of black terns I spent the next seven days and a night down island. The number of birds I counted fluctuated greatly. One day I'd see 300 to 400 terns and on another day I estimated 350,000 birds. This was not a migration in or out of the area. On the contrary, the birds were coming and going to feed on incoming schools of dusky anchovies that wander near shore and offshore this time of year. When these huge shoals of anchovies are five or 10 miles offshore the birds follow, but they don't return to shore when they're not feeding. They simply sleep on the water to remain near their prey. All pelagic and shore birds that eat fish are attracted to schools of anchovies, menhaden and other such foraging species. If hundreds of wind turbines are erected in the Gulf of Mexico within proximity of Padre Island, then baitfish will be drawn instinctively to the protective structure in the same way they are drawn to oil and gas platforms. And in turn the birds will follow. But unlike oil and gas platforms, when the birds are drawn to feed or rest on these massive structures, they will be in peril. Installing a bank of wind turbines reaching 700 feet above the water's surface spread over 60,000 acres five to 10 miles off the Padre Island beach would be like chumming the birds into the killing blades. I have a 25-foot boat that I regularly take offshore during migration season. I see wood warblers, hummingbirds, ducks, peregrine falcons, Hudson godwits and egrets migrating within 700 feet above the surface of the sea. There is no way to accurately record the number of birds that will be killed by these turbines. The Padre Island National Seashore's list of other concerns includes the possibility of turbines interfering with the homing instincts of sea turtles, thereby jeopardizing decades of effort by Donna Shaver. Why in the name of God would anyone who cares anything about the environment possibly pick this location for such a gigantic wind farm? I live in a rather harsh and very real world. And I've learned some things. When you pull a trigger you can't stop the bullet. It's gone. Like an extinct species, there is no amount of "what-ifs" or "if we had just done something" that will bring them back. But there is still time in this case. If we stand up for what we know is right and organize we can stop these Cuisinarts of the sky from coming. As a native son of Texas and a lifelong resident of the Coastal Bend, I consider the beauty of our sunrises over the Gulf and abundance of wildlife not only a blessing but a birthright to behold. These are the things that residents and visitors alike treasure. And these are the things we have been entrusted to keep for our children and grandchildren. Wind farms don't make aesthetic sense, environmental sense or economic sense for the Coastal Bend. The fact that they have to be subsidized by our tax dollars should be an indication that they might not be in our best interest. And most of all I'm terribly offended by people willing to destroy my view of the Gulf horizon while unnecessarily killing thousands of birds for their own profit. Let's keep our Texas wild, say no to these profiteers and stop the madness.

**Sea turtles are a keystone species – damaging the population risks human extinction and collapses the ocean**
**STCB 10** (Sea Turtle Conservation Bonaire. Sources: Caribbean Conservation Corporation and Todd Steiner, Sea Turtle Restoration Project. “Are Sea Turtles Worth Saving?” 2010. http://www.bonaireturtles.org/explore/are-sea-turtles-worth-saving/ ps)
Sea turtles are part of two vital ecosystems, beaches and marine systems. If sea turtles become extinct, both the marine and beach ecosystems will weaken. And since humans use the ocean as an important source for food and use beaches for many kinds of activities, weakness in these ecosystems would have harmful effects on humans. Though sea turtles have been living and thriving in the world’s oceans for 150 million years, they are now in danger of extinction largely because of changes brought about by humans. If we alter the oceans and beaches enough to wipe out sea turtles, will those changes make it difficult for us to survive? And if we choose to do what’s necessary to save sea turtles, might we save our own future? Beaches and dune systems do not get very many nutrients during the year, so very little vegetation grows on the dunes and no vegetation grows on the beach itself. This is because sand does not hold nutrients very well. Sea turtles use beaches and the lower dunes to nest and lay their eggs. Sea turtles lay around 100 eggs in a nest and lay between 3 and 7 nests during the summer nesting season. Not every nest will hatch, not every egg in a nest will hatch, and not all of the hatchlings in a nest will make it out of the nest. All the unhatched nests, eggs and trapped hatchlings are very good sources of nutrients for the dune vegetation. Even the left-over egg shells from hatched eggs provide nutrients. Dune plants use the nutrients from turtle eggs to grow and become stronger. As the dune vegetation grows stronger and healthier, the health of the entire beach/dune ecosystem becomes better. Healthy vegetation and strong root systems hold the sand in the dunes and protect the beach from erosion. As the number of turtles declines, fewer eggs are laid in the beaches, providing less nutrients. If sea turtles went extinct, dune vegetation would lose a major source of nutrients and would not be healthy or strong enough to maintain the dunes, allowing beaches to wash away. Sea turtles eat jellyfish, preventing the large “blooms” of jellyfish – including stinging jellyfish – that are increasingly wreaking havoc on fisheries, recreation and other maritime activities throughout the oceans. Research has shown that sea turtles often act as keystone species. Sea grass beds grazed by green sea turtles are more productive than those that aren’t. Hawksbill turtles eat sponges, preventing them from out-competing slow-growing corals. Both of these grazing activities maintain species diversity and the natural balance of fragile marine ecosystems. If sea turtles go extinct, it will cause declines in all the species whose survival depends on healthy seagrass beds and coral reefs. That means that many marine species that humans harvest would be lost. Sea turtles, and many species that are affected by their presence or absence, are an important attraction for marine tourism, a major source of income for many countries. These are some of the roles that we know sea turtles play in the essential health of ecosystems. Who knows what other roles we will discover as science reveals more about sea turtles? While humans have the ability to tinker with the “clockwork” of life, we don’t have the ability to know when it’s okay to lose a few of the working parts.

**Collapse of ocean ecosystems causes extinction**
**Craig**, 20**03**, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana U School Law, McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, just as they do for terrestrial ecosystems, but these arguments have thus far rarely been raised in political debates. For example, besides significant tourism values - the most economically valuable ecosystem service coral reefs provide, worldwide - coral reefs protect against storms and dampen other environmental fluctuations, services worth more than ten times the reefs' value for food production. n856 Waste treatment is another significant, non-extractive ecosystem function that intact coral reef ecosystems provide. n857 More generally, "ocean ecosystems play a major role in the global geochemical cycling of all the elements that represent the basic building blocks of living organisms, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, and sulfur, as well as other less abundant but necessary elements." n858 In a very real and direct sense, therefore, human degradation of marine ecosystems impairs the planet's ability to support life. Maintaining biodiversity is often critical to maintaining the functions of marine ecosystems. Current evidence shows that, in general, an ecosystem's ability to keep functioning in the face of disturbance is strongly dependent on its biodiversity, "indicating that more diverse ecosystems are more stable." n859 Coral reef ecosystems are particularly dependent on their biodiversity. [*265] Most ecologists agree that the complexity of interactions and degree of interrelatedness among component species is higher on coral reefs than in any other marine environment. This implies that the ecosystem functioning that produces the most highly valued components is also complex and that many otherwise insignificant species have strong effects on sustaining the rest of the reef system. n860 Thus, maintaining and restoring the biodiversity of marine ecosystems is critical to maintaining and restoring the ecosystem services that they provide. Non-use biodiversity values for marine ecosystems have been calculated in the wake of marine disasters, like the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska. n861 Similar calculations could derive preservation values for marine wilderness. However, economic value, or economic value equivalents, should not be "the sole or even primary justification for conservation of ocean ecosystems. Ethical arguments also have considerable force and merit." n862 At the forefront of such arguments should be a recognition of how little we know about the sea - and about the actual effect of human activities on marine ecosystems. The United States has traditionally failed to protect marine ecosystems because it was difficult to detect anthropogenic harm to the oceans, but we now know that such harm is occurring - even though we are not completely sure about causation or about how to fix every problem. Ecosystems like the NWHI coral reef ecosystem should inspire lawmakers and policymakers to admit that most of the time we really do not know what we are doing to the sea and hence should be preserving marine wilderness whenever we can - especially when the United States has within its territory relatively pristine marine ecosystems that may be unique in the world. We may not know much about the sea, but we do know this much: if we kill the ocean we kill ourselves, and we will take most of the biosphere with us.

**Dying birds in water bodies are the biggest threat of spreading and mutating bird flu**
**WHO 06** World Health organization [world health organization “Avian Influenza” Febuary 2006 http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/avian_influenza/en/#humans/] Kevin W. Prep ‘11
All evidence to date indicates that close contact with dead or sick birds is the principal source of human infection with the H5N1 virus. Especially risky behaviours identified include the slaughtering, defeathering, butchering and preparation for consumption of infected birds. In a few cases, exposure to chicken faeces when children played in an area frequented by free-ranging poultry is thought to have been the source of infection. Swimming in water bodies where the carcasses of dead infected birds have been discarded or which may have been contaminated by faeces from infected ducks or other birds might be another source of exposure. In some cases, investigations have been unable to identify a plausible exposure source, suggesting that some as yet unknown environmental factor, involving contamination with the virus, may be implicated in a small number of cases. Some explanations that have been put forward include a possible role of peri-domestic birds, such as pigeons, or the use of untreated bird faeces as fertilizer. At present, H5N1 avian influenza remains largely a disease of birds. The species barrier is significant: the virus does not easily cross from birds to infect humans. Despite the infection of tens of millions of poultry over large geographical areas since mid-2003, fewer than 200 human cases have been laboratory confirmed. For unknown reasons, most cases have occurred in rural and periurban households where small flocks of poultry are kept. Again for unknown reasons, very few cases have been detected in presumed high-risk groups, such as commercial poultry workers, workers at live poultry markets, cullers, veterinarians, and health staff caring for patients without adequate protective equipment. Also lacking is an explanation for the puzzling concentration of cases in previously healthy children and young adults. Research is urgently needed to better define the exposure circumstances, behaviours, and possible genetic or immunological factors that might enhance the likelihood of human infection.

**Extinction**
**Zakaria et al 5**
(Freed, NewsWeek Staff Correspondent, Melinda, Beijing Bureau Chief, Rod, Chief Foreign Correspondent, and Dr. Paul, Lead Epidemiologist Bayor College of Medicine Flu Research Center, October 31, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” NewsWeek, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/9787690/site/newsweek/).
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says Richard Falkenrath, who until recently served in the Bush administration as deputy Homeland Security adviser. "It's a bigger threat than terrorism. In fact it's bigger than anything I dealt with when I was in government." One makes a threat assessment on the basis of two factors: the probability of the event, and the loss of life if it happened. On both counts, a pandemic ranks higher than a major terror attack, even one involving weapons of mass destruction. A crude nuclear device would probably kill hundreds of thousands. A flu pandemic could easily kill millions. Whether this particular virus makes the final, fatal mutation that allows it to move from human to human, one day some virus will. The basic factor that is fueling this surge of viruses is China's growth. (China is the natural habitat of the influenza virus.) As China develops, it urbanizes, and its forests and wetlands shrink. That forces migratory birds to gather closer together-and closer to human habitation--which increases the chances of a virus spreading from one species to the next. Also, growth means a huge rise in chicken consumption. Across thousands of homes in China every day, chickens are slaughtered in highly unhygienic ways. "Every day the chances that this virus or another such virus will move from one species to another grow," says Laurie Garrett, author of "The Coming Plague," who has been writing brilliantly on this topic for years. Nobody really disputes that we are badly unprepared for this threat. "If something like this pandemic were to happen today," says Falkenrath, "the government would be mostly an observer, not a manager." The government can't even give intelligent advice to its citizens because it doesn't actually know what to say. We don't know whether people should stay put, leave cities, stay home or go to the nearest hospital. During the cold war, hundreds of people in government participated in dozens of crisis simulations of nuclear wars, accidents and incidents. These "tabletop exercises" were conducted so that if and when a real crisis hit, policymakers would not be confronting critical decisions for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat. Beyond short-term measures for this virus--mainly stocking up on Tamiflu--the only credible response is the development of countermeasures. The best response would be a general vaccine that would work against all strains of the flu. That's a tall order, but it could be achieved. The model of the Manhattan Project is often bandied about loosely, but this is a case in which it makes sense. We need a massive biomedical project aimed at tackling these kinds of diseases, whether they're natural or engineered by terrorists. The total funding request for influenza-related research this year is about $119 million. To put this in perspective, we are spending well over $10 billion to research and develop ballistic-missile defenses, which protect us against an unlikely threat (even if they worked). We are spending $4.5 billion a year on R&D—drawings—for the Pentagon's new joint strike fighter. Do we have our priorities right?

**Independently – biodiversity loss risks extinction**
**Diner** – Judge Advocate General’s Corps-19**94**
[Major David N., United States Army Military Law Review Winter, p. lexis] [Gendered Modified]
By causing widespread extinctions, humans have artificially simplified many ecosystems. As biologic simplicity increases, so does the risk of ecosystem failure. The spreading Sahara Desert in Africa, and the dustbowl conditions of the 1930s in the United States are relatively mild examples of what might be expected if this trend continues. Theoretically, each new animal or plant extinction, with all its dimly perceived and intertwined affects, could cause total ecosystem collapse and human extinction. Each new extinction increases the risk of disaster. Like a mechanic removing, one by one, the rivets from an aircraft's wings, n80 [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

===1ac mba=== 
====1ac plan==== 

United States federal government should make freight rail electrification a national security priority.

We’ll clarify.

====1ac peak oil==== 

The Advantage is Peak Oil –

Status quo initiatives cannot solve in time – peak oil is coming and will most likely happen before 2020
Kumhof and Muir 12 (Michael and Dirk, Michael Kumhof is the deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Dirk Muir is in the International Monetary Fund’s Research Department and Economic Modeling Division, October 25th 2012, “Oil and the World Economy: Some Possible Futures,” http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/wp/2012/wp12256.pdf ;)
This paper, based on empirical evidence, pays serious attention to the view that geology will at some point in the not-too-distant future start to constrain world oil production, but without taking a stand on the precise year in which this will happen. According to the geological view oil reserves are ultimately ﬁnite, easy-to-access oil is produced ﬁrst, and therefore oil must become harder and more expensive to produce as the cumulative amount of oil already produced grows. According to many scientists that advocate this view, the recently observed stagnant oil production in the face of persistent and large oil price increases is a sign that physical scarcity of oil is already here, or at least imminent, and that it must eventually overwhelm the stimulative eﬀects of higher oil prices on oil production. Furthermore they state, on the basis of extensive studies of alternative technologies and resources, that suitable substitutes for oil simply do not exist on the required scale and over the required horizon , and that technologies to improve oil recovery from existing ﬁelds, and to economize on oil use, must eventually run into limits dictated by the laws of thermodynamics, speciﬁcally entropy. This view of oil supply traces its origins back to the work of M. King Hubbert (1956), a geoscientist who in 1956 correctly predicted that U.S. oil output would peak in 1970. It is discussed in a study produced for the U.S. Department of Energy , Hirsch and others (2005), and in a subsequent book, Hirsch and others (2010). The most thorough scientiﬁc research available on this topic is UK Energy Research Centre (2009), which is succinctly summarized in Sorrell and others (2010). Based on a wealth of geological and engineering evidence, these authors conclude that there is a signiﬁcant risk of a peak in conventional oil production before 2020, with an inexorable decline thereafter. Given that this still allows for a wide range of possible dates for the next major trend break, we will not be speciﬁc concerning the year at which the shock hits the world economy in our simulations.

The peak is coming now and it will lead to a long age of scarcity – immediate action to build resilience is key
Wakeford 12 (Jeremy, senior lecturer in the School of Economics at UCT and is Research Director of the. Association for the Study of Peak Oil South Africa, July 27th 2012, “Peak oil is no myth,” http://www.engineeringnews.co.za/article/peak-oil-is-no-myth-2012-07-27 ;)
Peak oil is not about running out of oil. It refers to the fact that, since oil is a finite resource, the annual rate of production of oil must at some point reach an all-time maximum – a ‘peak’ – and then decline. This empirical phenomenon of peaking has already been observed in about two-thirds of oil producing countries as well as the regions of North America (peaked in 1985) and Europe (peaked in 2000). Global new oil discoveries have been declining since the 1960s and giant oilfields – accounting for some 60% of world supply – are declining at over 6% a year. Production of conventional oil has hardly risen since 2005, even though demand is burgeoning in developing countries. The conference gave considerable attention to unconventional oil – resources like Canada’s tar sands, North Dakota’s shale oil and Vene- zuela’s heavy oil – which cannot be extracted or processed using conventional technologies. The consensus view was that unconventional resources are like a large barrel with a small tap, which means that the crucial flow rate of oil is constrained. Thus, unconventional oil will be unlikely to offset the 4.5% average annual decline rate of conventional oilfields for more than a few years. Moreover, prodigious amounts of energy and capital inputs are needed to extract and refine unconventional oil, which implies a low energy return on investment and a high economic cost – around $100/bl at present. In the words of Scottish geologist Euan Mearns, “peak oil is the game changer, and unconventional oil is the system response”. Dr Robert Hirsch, an energy analyst who produced a seminal report for the US Depart- ment of Energy entitled ‘Peaking world oil production: impacts, mitigation and risk management’, delivered a sobering assessment of how our economies and societies might react to declining oil supplies. He argued that public reactions would likely be similar to responses to the 1970s oil shocks – namely panic, hoarding and long queues at filling stations. He expects oil decline to begin within one to four years and, given the world’s oil-dependent transport infrastructure worth $50-trillion to $100-trillion, electrification of mobility will not yield quick results. If the decline rate is 3% to 4%, Hirsch warns, the economic impact will be “catastrophic”. A similarly disconcerting presen- tation on the geopolitics of oil and gas was given by Professor Michael Klare, the world’s pre-eminent authority on resource-driven conflicts. He noted that nothing has had a closer association to geopolitics than oil, which, for a century, has been crucial for military power. Klare argued that the US’s military strategy is now aimed increasingly at exploiting China’s growing reliance on oil imports, while the US itself enjoys a resurgence – albeit temporary – in domestic oil and gas production. Key hot spots for potential conflict are the Persian Gulf, the Caspian Sea region, the South China Sea and the Arctic. In case you think it was all doom and gloom, some presenters gave bullish visions for a future powered by renewable energy. Europe has been leading the way and now has about 100 000 MW of installed wind power capacity. Jeremy Leggett, convenor of the UK Industry Task Force on Peak Oil and Energy Security, noted that the recent expansion of solar power capacity in the European Union exceeded that of all other new energy sources. As the above snippets have, hopefully, conveyed, peak oil is anything but a ‘myth’. The sooner that citizens, businesspeople and politicians wake up to this reality, the better our chances of building resilience to oil shocks and transitioning to sustainable energy economies.

Descent is probable within the next four years – untapped oil can’t solve since industry can’t produce oil fast enough to meet demand
Leggett 12 (Jeremy, Jeremy Leggett is founder and Chairman of Solarcentury, the UK's largest solar solutions company, and SolarAid, a charity set up with Solarcentury profits. He is author of The Carbon War and Half Gone, “Monbiot says he was wrong on peak oil but the crisis is undeniable,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/blog/2012/jul/04/monbiot-wrong-peak-oil;)
The many misunderstandings he relays begin with the title. There is more than enough potential oil resource below ground to create the climate disaster he refers to. Peak oil is not about that. It is about when global production falls never again to reach past levels: a disaster, if the descent hits an oil-dependent global economy years ahead of expectations. This descent depends on flow rates in oilfields, not the amount of oil left. What worries those who believe the global oil peak is imminent is the evidence that the oil industry will not be able to maintain growing flow rates for much longer. The whistleblowing in the run-up to the credit crunch involved a few maverick economists and some far-sighted financial journalists. The peak-oil whistleblowing is different. Many within the incumbency itself are sounding alarms. Every year, when the Association for the Study of Peak Oil (ASPO) meets, recently retired oilmen queue to give their latest assessments of how their industry is getting its asset assessment wrong. The latest ASPO event was held a few weeks ago in Vienna, which I attended. There has been "a boom in oil production" of late, Monbiot says. Wrong. Global production has been essentially struggling along a plateau since 2004, as Bob Hirsch, an ex-Exxon advisor to the US Department of Energy describes. Hirsch expects the descent to begin in one to four years. Monbiot is correct that there has been a small increase in oil production in the United States in recent years. But can that continue, as he infers? Gas-industry whistleblower Art Berman describes how the shale gas gold-rush of recent years, now extending into shale oil, may well be a giant ponzi scheme: decline rates in wells are unexpectedly fast, meaning more and more have to be drilled at ever more expense, meaning ever more money has to be borrowed against cash flows from production that fall ever further behind. He looks at the resulting disaster in the balance sheets of oil and gas companies, and expects the bankruptcies to start any time soon. John Dizard has also warned of this particular bubble, in the Financial Times.

We control uniqueness – no growth now and production is already peaked
Kumhof 12/11 (Michael, deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), “Peak Oil Warning From an IMF Expert : Interview with Michael Kumhof,” http://peakoil.com/generalideas/peak-oil-warning-from-an-imf-expert-interview-with-michael-kumhof/ ;)
That is one of the things we are trying to figure out. One fact is that since late 2005, the growth rate of world crude oil output has been very close to zero. If you add in things like Natural Gas Liquids and unconventional forms of oil, then the recent trend becomes a little more positive. Nevertheless, if you just look at crude oil [which accounts for around 80 % of liquid fuel production], you could say, well maybe we are already at the historic maximum level of production.

Peak oil is certain by at least 2030 – their authors are just optimists
Kumhof 12/11 (Michael, deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), “Peak Oil Warning From an IMF Expert : Interview with Michael Kumhof,” http://peakoil.com/generalideas/peak-oil-warning-from-an-imf-expert-interview-with-michael-kumhof/ ;)
In our latest paper, we refer to a very thorough study published in 2009 by the UK Energy Research Centre [pdf], which is by far the best study ever published on the “peak oil” issue, as far as we know. The authors of that study basically say that it is too early to be very certain of when the decline may happen. But they also say that it is almost impossible that it will happen after 2030. According to them, it will happen before, with a significant probability that it might happen quite a few years before 2030. The short term future of oil production capacity, to about 2016, is relatively inflexible, because the projects which will raise supply are already committed. Reasonable shortterm forecasts for any region can be constructed using widely available public data. The primary issue for the short term is the cancellation and delay of these projects as a result of the 2008 economic recession and the consequent risk of supply shortages when demand recovers. For medium to long-term forecasting, the number and scale of uncertainties multiply making precise forecasts of the timing of peak production unwarranted. Nevertheless, we consider that forecasts that delay the peak of conventional oil production until after 2030 rest upon several assumptions that are at best optimistic and at worst implausible. Such forecasts need to either demonstrate how these assumptions can be met or why the constraints identified in this report do not apply. On the basis of current evidence we suggest that a peak of conventional oil production before 2030 appears likely and there is a significant risk of a peak before 2020. Given the lead times required to both develop substitute fuels and improve energy efficiency, this risk needs to be given serious consideration.

Diminishing returns make new extraction technology useless
Gail Tverberg, 11-14-12 (Christian Science Monitor, Staff, “An America self-sufficient in oil? Don't bet on it.”, http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/Energy-Voices/2012/1114/An-America-self-sufficient-in-oil-Don-t-bet-on-it :)
One reason the WEO 2012 estimates are unreasonable is because the oil prices shown are unrealistically low relative to the production amounts forecast in the report. This seems to occur because the IEA misses the problem of diminishing returns. As the easy-to-produce oil becomes more depleted, and we need to move to more difficult reservoirs, the cost of extraction increases. In fact, there is evidence that the “tight” oil referenced in Exhibit 1 is already starting to reach production limits, at current prices. The only way these production limits might be reasonably overcome is with higher oil prices–much higher than the IEA is assuming in any of its forecasts. Higher oil prices cause a huge problem because of their impact on the world economy. The IEA in fact mentions that current high oil prices are already acting as a brake on the global economy in its first slide for the press. Higher oil prices also mean that investment costs required to reach target production levels will be even higher than forecast by the IEA, adding another impediment to reaching its forecast production levels. If higher prices put the economies of oil importing nations into recession, then oil prices will drop lower, reducing the incentive to invest in new oil production infrastructure. In fact, we could find ourselves reaching “peak oil” because of an economic dilemma: while there seems to be plenty of oil available, the cost of extracting it may be reaching a point where it is more expensive than consumers can afford. As a result, some oil that we know about, and have been counting as reserves, will have to be left in the ground. The IMF has recently done modeling that is relevant to this issue in a working paper called “Oil and the World Economy: Some Possible Futures.” This analysis may provide some insight as to what the real situation will be. The Problem of Diminishing Returns One issue that the IEA has not properly modeled is the issue of declining resource quality, leading to diminishing returns and a rising “real” (inflation adjusted) cost of production. This situation is often described as reflecting declining Energy Return on Energy Invested (EROEI). The reason diminishing returns are a problem is because when a producer decides to extract oil, or gas or coal, the producer looks for the cheapest, easiest to extract, resource first. It is only when this resource is mostly depleted that the producer will seek locations where more expensive, harder to extract resource is available. Thus, over time, the inflation adjusted cost of extracting a resource tends to increase. In terms of the triangle shown in Figure 3 (see above left), producers tend to start at the top, with the “best” of the resource, and work their way toward the bottom. One result of this approach is that the cost per unit of production tends to rise, even as there are technology advances and efficiency gains, because the quality of the resource is declining. Reserves tend to increase over time with this approach, because as producers work their way down the triangle in the diagram, they always see an increasing quantity of lower quality resources. The new reserves are increasingly expensive to extract, in inflation adjusted terms. There is no flashing light that says, “Above this price, customers won’t be able to afford to purchase this resource any more,” though. As a result, the increasingly low quality reserves get added to reported amounts, even though in some cases, the cost of products made with these reserves (say gasoline or diesel) will send economies into recession. It should be noted that the issue of diminishing returns exists for almost any kind of resource. It exists for uranium extraction, since there is always more available, just harder to reach, or in lower concentration. Diminishing returns exists for gold, copper, and for nearly any other kind of metal. This means we often need more oil for metal extraction and processing, as we dig deeper or find ore that is mixed with a higher proportion of waste product.

No spare capacity – higher production levels don’t solve
Reuters 12 (News Organization, “World oil supply tightens in last 2 months: EIA,” http://dawn.com/2012/08/25/world-oil-supply-tightens-in-last-2-months-eia/ ;)
The EIA said on Friday global spare production capacity was “relatively tight by historical standards” at 2.4 million bpd, steady with the last report. Global inventories fell even as Saudi Arabia produced oil in July and August at a rate that was 900,000 bpd higher than its average rate over the last three years, the EIA said. The OPEC powerhouse is producing at higher rates as output in its rival Iran gets hit by sanctions on both sides of the Atlantic.

Transition to natural gas fails – we can’t integrate it into the economy
Tverberg 12 (Gail, Works in the insurance industry for casting and modeling, “Why Natural Gas isn’t Likely to be the World’s Energy Savior,” http://theenergycollective.com/node/131601 ;)
But I think that people who are counting on natural gas to solve the world’s energy problems are “counting their chickens before they are hatched”. Natural gas is a fuel that requires a lot of infrastructure in order for anything to “happen”. As a result, it needs a lot of up-front investment, and several years time delay. It also needs changes on the consumption side (requiring further investment) that will allow this natural gas to be used. If the cost is higher than competing fuels, this becomes a problem as well. In many ways, natural gas consumption is captive to other things that are happening in the economy: an economy that is industrializing rapidly will easily be able to consume more natural gas, but an economy in decline will find it hard to scrape together funds for new ways of doing what was done previously, now with natural gas. Increased use of renewables seems to call for additional use of natural gas for balancing, but even this is not certain, because in many parts of the world, natural gas is a high-priced imported fuel. Political instability, often linked to high oil and food prices, creates a poor atmosphere for new Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facilities, no matter how attractive the pricing may seem to be. In the US, we have already “hit the wall” on how much natural gas can be absorbed into the system or used to offset imports. US natural gas production has been flat since November 2011, based on EIA data (Figure 1, below).

Abiotic oil theory is stupid and inaccurate
Heinberg 4 (Richard, Senior Fellow-in-Residence at Post Carbon Institute, “The 'Abiotic Oil' Controversy,” http://rense.com/general58/biot.htm ;)
There is no way to conclusively prove that no petroleum is of abiotic origin. Science is an ongoing search for truth, and theories are continually being altered or scrapped as new evidence appears. However, the assertion that all oil is abiotic requires extraordinary support, because it must overcome abundant evidence, already cited, to tie specific oil accumulations to specific biological origins through a chain of well-understood processes that have been demonstrated, in principle, under laboratory conditions. Now, I like scientific mavericks; I tend to cheer for the underdog. Peak oil is itself a maverick idea, and for the past several years I have been promoting a view that the Wall Street Journal recently described as "crackpot." (14) So I feel a bit unaccustomed and even uncomfortable now to be on the side of the scientific "establishment" in arguing against the abiotic oil theorists. The latter certainly deserve their day in the court of scientific debate. Perhaps one day there will be general agreement that at least some oil is indeed abiotic. Maybe there are indeed deep methane belts twenty miles below the Earthís surface. But the important question to keep in mind is: What are the practical consequences of this discussion now for the problem of global oil depletion? I have not personally inspected the oil wells in Saudi Arabia or even those in Texas. But nearly every credible report that I have seen - whether from the industry or from an independent scientist - describes essentially the same reality: discoveries are declining, and have been since the 1960s. Spare production capacity is practically gone. And the old, super-giant oil fields that the world depends upon for the majority of its production are nearing or past their all-time production peaks. Not even the Russian fields cited by the abiotic theorists as evidence for their views are immune: in June the head of Russia's Federal Energy Agency said that production for 2005 is likely to remain flat or even drop, while other officials in that country have said that growth in Russian production cannot be sustained for more than another few years. (15)

The plan solves by providing a non-oil dependent transportation backbone – this solves the worst case scenarios of peak oil
Alan S. Drake ’10 *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Benefits - Transferring inter-city freight from truck to electrified double stack container rail replaces roughly 20 BTUs of refined diesel with 1 BTU of electricity. This electricity is potentially renewable, and we can easily conserve the less than 2% of total electrical demand required to operate expanded and electrified railroads. Double Stack 53′ Containers (the standard length for “18 wheeler” trailers) The reasons for the efficiency advantage of electric rail rest on basic physics. Steel rolling on steel has about one-fifth of the friction of rubber on concrete or asphalt and electric motors are almost three times as energy efficient as diesel engines. Electric motors can also serve as generators when braking, converting motion back into electricity. Trains, especially double stack container trains, are more efficient aerodynamically than an equivalent number of trucks since one rail car reduces drag for the following car. This 20 to 1 replacement ratio, diesel “traded” for renewable electricity (or conservation), has significant economic, energy, environmental, public health & safety and national security benefits. Savings on the order of two million barrels per day or about 11% of current US oil consumption are possible. That 11% performs a critical service – one that will be difficult to reduce in an oil emergency – unless, of course, we can turn to an expanded and electrified railroad system. An electrified rail system that significantly reduces oil consumption before an emergency can also expand quickly to save even more oil during an emergency. Electrifying existing rail traffic trades 2.5 to 3 BTUs of refined diesel for 1 BTU of electricity and will speed up transit times a bit, 5% to 15% in the European experience. This creates an oil-free transportation backbone that can deliver food and other essential materials regardless of the severity and duration of any future oil shortage. This “new and improved” system can respond quickly to a prolonged oil emergency with proper planning. Just 3% of Switzerland’s transportation energy is used by electrified rail, but the Swiss transport 1/3rd of their freight tonne-km and 1/6th of their passenger-km with that 3%. This success helps explain why the Swiss voted to invest 31 billion Swiss francs over twenty years in improvements to their already excellent rail system. Adjusting for population and currency, an equivalent American investment would be more than $1 trillion. The plan envisioned here will take less money, proportionally, than what the Swiss are investing today.

Rail electrification covers 85% of needs in a crisis preventing oil rationing
Alan S. Drake ’10 *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
Chapter #1 – Electrified and Improved Railroads Overall Strategy - Create an Oil-Free Transportation system that can out-compete our existing oil based system. Electrified and improved oil-free railroads can competitively attract much, and likely most, of today’s truck freight traffic under current conditions of $80 per barrel oil and tax subsidized trucking vs. unsubsidized rail. Extant rail freight plus the freight transferred from trucks can be carried faster, cheaper, cleaner, greener, safer, more profitably and largely without oil, while creating an oil-free passenger network. At deregulation, the rail modal share of fruits and vegetables was just 1%. It has since grown to about 15% today. Transporting a majority of our fresh food ton-miles without oil is a realistic and very worthwhile strategic goal. A major goal of an electrified and improved rail system is that in the event of an oil supply shock (imagine $200 to $350 per barrel oil coupled with shortages), our oil-free transportation system can quickly expand to transport at least 85% of today’s inter-city truck ton-miles. This will allow food and critical materials to be transported oil-free and this shift will reduce the pressure on rationing oil to critical needs.

Two impacts –

First is energy scarcity – peak oil leads to civilization collapse and breakdown of society – causes widespread violence and human rights abuses
Morrigan 2010 (Tariel, the Principal Research Associate, Global Climate Change, Human Security and Democracy, October 2010, “Peak Energy, Climate Change and Collapse of Global Civilization,” http://www.global.ucsb.edu/climateproject/papers/pdf/Morrigan_2010_Energy_CC4.pdf ;)
Systemic Collapse and the Decline of Global Civilization Peak oil will have systemic effects throughout our entire global civilization. Korowicz explains that the contemporary world is based on: “...a globalising, integrated and co-dependant global economy evolved with particular dynamics and embedded structures that have made our basic welfare dependent upon delocalised 'local' economies. It has locked us into hyper-complex economic and social processes that are increasing our vulnerability, but which we are unable to alter without risking a collapse in those same welfare supporting structures. And without increasing energy flows, those embedded structures, which include our expectations, institutions and infrastructure that evolved and adapted in the expectation of further economic growth cannot be maintained.” In other words, not only is our civilization locked into a very complex and interrelated world economy, any attempt to significantly alter it and the energy and transportation infrastructure and the global economy on which it is based would cause it to collapse – but without an increasing oil energy supply, the infrastructure and economy on which our civilization is based cannot survive. A comprehensive analysis of the implications and potential consequences of a peak in global oil production is beyond the scope of this paper. Therefore, this particular topic will not be discussed at great length here. Instead, the reader is urged to read David Korowicz's report, Tipping Point: Near- Term Systemic Implications of a Peak in Global Oil Production – An Outline Review. Tipping Point provides a very clear and straightforward analysis of the implications and consequences of a peak in global oil production. Nevertheless, along with this analysis, it is worth summarizing the integrated collapse mechanisms and the possible consequences of peak oil as discussed by Korowicz. The principle driving mechanisms for a global economic collapse are re-enforcing positive feedback cycles except where noted, adapted from 95: • Declining oil and energy flows will increase economic costs and reduce global economic production. Reduced global production will undermine society's ability to produce goods and services, to trade, and to produce and use energy, which will further reduce economic production. • The global and industrialized economy is based on fractional reserve banking, compound interest, debt-based growth, and compound or unlimited growth. The economic theory on which the economy is based assumes unlimited energy supplies. Credit forms the basis of the monetary system. In a growing economy debt and interest can be repaid. In a declining economy they cannot be repaid. Therefore, declining energy flows cannot maintain the economic production required to service debt. When outstanding debt cannot be repaid, new credit will scarce. • In 2008, oil represented 41.6% of the global total final consumption of all fuels (e.g., coal, natural gas, etc.)7. Of this total, 61.4% was used for transportation; 9.5% was for industry; 12.9% was for other sectors (including agriculture, commercial and public services, residential, and other sectors); and 16.2% was for non-energy use7. • The major petroleum products many people are familiar with include petrol, aviation fuels, kerosene, diesel, lubricating oils and bitumen. However, refined oil also serves as a petrochemical feedstock for the production of plastics, synthetic rubber, pharmaceuticals, pesticides, electronics, packaging, fabrics, dyes, adhesives and paint. Therefore, oil not only provides the fuel for the growth of the global economy, it also provides many of the materials that support societies and from which modern civilization is built. A shortage of oil will result in shortages of plastics, electronics, pharmaceuticals, and other oil-based products necessary to build and support modern civilization. Society's localized needs and welfare have become very dependent on hyper-integrated globalized supply-chains (e.g, industrial, agricultural, water, energy). The system-wide functioning of global supply-chains is supported by monetary confidence and bank intermediation. The money in our economies holds no intrinsic value; it is backed by debt. When the economy is destabilized, deflation and hyper-inflation risks will also destabilize the monetary system. Furthermore, the banking system as a whole must become insolvent since their assets (i.e., loans) cannot be repaid. • The failure of globalized supply-chains will collapse world trade. In developed and industrialized societies, regional and local economies will breakdown since few goods and services are produced locally, but rather are imported and outsourced from the global economy. Therefore, the more complex and globalized the systems and inputs are on which modern societies rely, the more are societies at risk from a systemic collapse. • The global economy and supply-chains are also highly dependent on the operation of highly codependent critical infrastructure (e.g., energy, transportation, water, waste, food, finance, telecommunications, and Internet technologies). A systemic failure in one part of the infrastructure may cause cascading failure in the others. This infrastructure depends on continual re-supply of energy, materials, short-lifetime components; complex highly resource intensive and specialized supply-chains; large economies of scale; and the operation of the monetary and financial system. The interdependence of infrastructure is likely to cause rapidly increasing risks of systemic failure. • Since the Green Revolution started after World War II, the modern industrial agricultural system has become highly dependent on fossil fuel inputs (particularly oil and natural gas), the delocalization of food sourcing, and small just-in-time inventories. The failure of the modern food production system could result in rapidly evolving food security risks in both developed and developing countries. At risk is food production, the ability to link surpluses to deficits (i.e., distribute food from source to consumer), collapsed purchasing power, and the ability to monetize market transactions. • Peak oil is likely to cause a general peak in energy production and use (e.g., coal and gas generated electricity) (see Peak Energy Resources). The ability to develop new energy production and maintain existing energy infrastructure will likely be severely compromised. Massive energy demand and supply collapses will likely cause further decay of energy infrastructure and limit the ability to rebuild it. • The collapse mechanisms described above are non-linear, mutually reinforcing, and not exclusive. In other words, the above collapse mechanisms are interrelated, can happen simultaneously, can occur very suddenly and rapidly, and can cause and accelerate the occurrences of any of the other collapse mechanisms. • A principle initial driver of the collapse process will be growing awareness and action about peak oil and a growing awareness about the rapid decline of the financial sector and global economy. Investors will likely try to extract themselves from “virtual assets” (e.g., bond, equities, market funds, and cash) and convert them into “real assets” (e.g., property, precious metals, tools) before the system collapses. However, the nominal value of virtual assets likely far exceeds available real assets. Therefore, the confirmation of peak oil (e.g., by official and market action, and mainstream media discourse), fear, market panic, and market decline will drive a positive feedback in financial markets will accelerate systemic collapse. • Systemic collapse will evolve as a systemic crisis as the integrated infrastructure and economy of our global civilization breaks down. Most governments and societies, especially those that are developed and industrialized, will be unable to manage multiple simultaneous systemic crises. Consequently, systemic collapse will likely result in widespread confusion, fear, human security risks, [and] human rights abuses, and social break down.

Entropy means all structures of society fall apart post-peak
Kumhof 12/11 (Michael, deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), “Peak Oil Warning From an IMF Expert : Interview with Michael Kumhof,” http://peakoil.com/generalideas/peak-oil-warning-from-an-imf-expert-interview-with-michael-kumhof/ ;)
No, unfortunately it is not. The concept of Entropy comes from physics and thermodynamics. Basically, it says that any system will always exhibit energy dissipation. Energy will always go from a state of low entropy to a state of high entropy, meaning energy will always tend to dissipate, from being concentrated to being diffuse and therefore useless. Many structures that we are using were built with the help of enormous amounts of concentrated energy, mostly in the form of fossil fuels. If you leave those structures alone, if you do not keep adding energy to the system, then after a few decades, those structures will just fall apart.

Collapse of society reverses previous gains made by marginalized groups – dramatically increases racism, sexism, and homophobia
Baker 12 (Carolyn, Adjunct professor of history and psychology for 11 years, June 10th 2012 “Masculine, Feminine, Collapse, And The Next Culture, By Carolyn Baker” http://carolynbaker.net/2012/06/10/masculine-feminine-collapse-and-the-next-culture-by-carolyn-baker-3/ ;)
During the past three years since the publication of my two books focused on the collapse of industrial civilization, Sacred Demise: Walking The Spiritual Path Of Industrial Civilization’s Collapse and Navigating The Coming Chaos: A Handbook For Inner Transition, I have been asked countless times how I predict that people of color, women, children, the elderly, and the LGBT community, the most vulnerable members of a society in chaos, will be treated as industrial civilization continues to unravel. Many point to James Howard Kunstler’s futuristic novels as one likely scenario. Kunstler essentially believes that during and after the demise of civilization, minorities will be blatantly scapegoated as a principal cause of the demise, and that as the criminal and legal systems crumble, virtually nothing will deter crazed and criminal elements from foisting all manner of violence on the most defenseless. In fact, Kunstler argues that the gains experienced by ethnic minorities, women, and gays in the past forty years will essentially be erased as berserk, belligerent males succeed in ruling the day. In Navigating The Coming Chaos, I wrote very candidly about how I imagine women will be treated as existing societal structures deteriorate. Frankly, I agree with Kunstler that women and minorities will be targeted, and that members of targeted groups who believe otherwise are pathetically naïve. While I have never launched a crusade to arm women, whenever I am asked about how I believe they will be treated in collapse, I implore them to learn self-defense techniques and if they are open to it, complete at least one training in the use of firearms—and to stay current with practicing how to use the weapons with which they have trained.

Social order will break down – those that survive the collapse will kill themselves
Church 10/23/06 (Norman, Independent Energy Analyst for Counter Currents, “Major Problems of Surviving Peak Oil,” Powerswitch, http://www.powerswitch.org.uk/portal/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2026&Itemid=2)
It is difficult to think about 'how things will play out' when an oil-based global economy loses its cheap energy source. It has never happened before. It will never happen again. I think it quite probable that it will start very slowly, may be so slowly that we may not even see it start. It will take time for civilization to come apart, and the process will be like rolling down a slope, not like falling off a cliff. We will face a future of shortages, economic crises, disintegrating infrastructure, and collapsing public health, probably stretched out over a period of decades. The notion of holing up in a cabin in the hills with a stockpile of food and firearms is also not a realistic response. A few years of stored food and an assortment of high-tech paramilitary gear are hopelessly inadequate preparations in the face of this reality. Stockpiles of precious metals, another common hedge against collapse, are even more useless. All the gold in the world means nothing unless people are going to value it enough to trade what will be scarce resources for it. Many of the things that we take for granted -- food, water, heat, electricity, waste removal, medical care, and police protection -- will evaporate as the collapse accelerates. Riots will probably begin as food and water becomes scarce. Governments will attempt to take control of the situation and restore order, but it will become so widespread that it will be impossible. The primary killers will then become disease, starvation, dehydration, and suicide.

Peak oil turns all their impacts – current federal policy fails – transportation investment is key
WOTW 12 (War of the Words, Internet writer that is a analyzer of history and political theory living in the Pacific Northwest, 3/10/12, “Quitting Oil is a National Security Priority,” http://open.salon.com/blog/war_of_the_words/2012/03/10/quitting_oil_is_a_national_security_priority ;)
Our entire economy and capitalist system hang in the balance. The flow of cheap energy is the foundation of modern industrial capitalism. Yet we are doing nothing about the fact that this flow will eventually be cut off. It is a matter of uncontestable fact that oil is a finite resource. It is a fossil fuel that is created deep underground by the internal pressures of the Earth. Therefore, a day will come when that resource will be tapped out, and before that, a period when it will be so expensive and destructive to access it that the costs will outweigh the benefits. Even the staunchest defenders of fossil fuels must recognize deep in their hearts that the time of oil’s dominance will eventually come to an end. There is no scientific debate over whether or not peak oil production and eventual decline will occur; there is only debate about the timing of peak oil. Even the most optimistic analysts place the beginning of the decline in the 2020s. Can you image the consequences of rapidly rising oil prices? Even the recent, minor uptick is causing consternation and slowing economic growth. Plastic, one of the most ubiquitous substances in modern life, will become expensive and hard to produce. Industrial agriculture will be impossibly expensive, which will disrupt the food supply for millions of people. The ripple effects could bring down entire economies. Here is a chilling take on the possibilities from none other than the US military. The following is from the report Joint Operating Area 2010, which predicts decline starting this year, 2012, with a shortfall reaching ten million barrels per day by 2015: “While it is difficult to predict precisely what economic, political, and strategic effects such a shortfall might produce, it surely would reduce the prospects for growth in both the developing and developed worlds. Such an economic slowdown would exacerbate other unresolved tensions, push fragile and failing states further down the path toward collapse, and perhaps have serious economic impact on both China and India. At best, it would lead to periods of harsh economic adjustment. To what extent conservation measures, investments in alternative energy production, and efforts to expand petroleum production from tar sands and shale would mitigate such a period of adjustment is difficult to predict. One should not forget that the Great Depression spawned a number of totalitarian regimes that sought economic prosperity for their nations by ruthless conquest.” This crisis, the military analysts recognize, is “inevitable without a massive expansion of production and refining capacity.” However, even expanding our capacity to produce petroleum will only delay the inevitable rather than averting it. This is not a problem that the free market will solve on its own, for two critical reasons. The first is that there is a massive short-term economic incentive to continue in our current path. According to Sarah Anderson and John Cavenagh of the Institute for Policy Studies, in the year 2000, of the 100 largest economic units in the world, including both corporations and states, Exxon Mobil alone came in at 26th. Oil companies consistently post among the highest profits in the world. The oil industry is one of America’s most powerful lobbies. This market-distorting concentration of power will act to protect its short-term interests and prevent any movement away from oil and towards renewables. This has already happened- after the Second World War, a consortium of petroleum producers, tire manufacturers and car companies bought up massive amounts of public transportation infrastructure and subsequently destroyed it, cementing the dominance of the automobile. As oil production declines and oil prices rise, the oil companies will make even more money and thus concentrate even more power in their hands. The second reason is that governments around the world heavily favor the oil industry in ways big and small. The Bush Administration’s energy bill of 2005 included a 4.4 billion dollar subsidy for the oil and coal industries. We have consistently proven willing to use our military and foreign policy to ensure access to foreign oil reserves for American companies, as the Iraq war plainly shows. It seems almost cliché to point out that of all of the violent conflicts between Arab Spring uprisings and brutal, murderous dictators, the one in which NATO chose to intervene just happened to be in the country with the biggest oil reserves- Libya. There are bills currently before Congress that will eviscerate funding for public transportation and move that money to highway construction, including extending highway systems into national forests. This is another indirect subsidy to the oil industry.

Next is oil wars – peak oil will escalate oil competition and cause national outrage
King 2008 (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en)
A similar peak in worldwide production would have far more sweeping consequences. It would, for one, spell the end of the world’s unparalleled economic boom over the last century. It would also dramatically reorder the wobbly balance of power between nations as energy-challenged industrialized countries turn their sights on the oil-rich nations of the Middle East and Africa. In a peak oil future, the small, flattened, globalized world that has awed recent commentators would become decidedly round and very vast again. Oceans will reemerge as a hindrance to trade, instead of the conduit they have been for so long. An energy-born jolt to the world economy would leave no corner of the globe untouched. Unable to pay their own fuel bills, the tiny Marshall Islands this summer faced the possibility of going entirely without power. That is a reality that could sweep across many of the smallest and poorest countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, reversing many of the tentative gains in those regions and stirring deep social unrest. Large patches of the world rely almost entirely on diesel-powered generators for what skimpy electricity they now have. Those generators are the first to run empty as prices soar. A British parliamentary report released in June on “The Impact of Peak Oil on International Development” concluded that “the deepening energy crisis has the potential to make poverty a permanent state for a growing number of people, undoing the development efforts of a generation.”9 We are seeing some of the consequences already in Pakistan – a country of huge strategic importance, with its own stash of nuclear weapons – that is now in the grips of a severe energy crisis. By crippling the country’s economy, battering the stock market, and spurring mass protests, Pakistan’s power shortages could end up giving the country’s Islamic parties the leverage they have long needed to take power. It’s not hard to imagine similar scenarios playing out in dozens of other developing countries. Deepening economic unrest will put an enormous strain on the United Nations and other international aid agencies. Anyone who has ever visited a major UN relief hub knows that their fl eets of Land Rovers, jumbo jets and prop planes have a militarysize thirst for fuel. Aid agency budgets will come under unprecedented pressure just as the need for international aid skyrockets and donor countries themselves feel pressed for cash. A peaking of oil supplies could also hasten the impact of global climate change by dramatically driving up the use of coal for power generation in much of the world. A weakened world economy would also put in jeopardy the massively expensive projects, such as carbon capture and storage, that many experts look to for a reduction in industrial emissions. So on top of the strains caused by scarce fossil fuels, the world may also have to grapple with the destabilizing effects of more rapid desertification, dwindling fisheries, and strained food supplies. An oil-constricted world will also stir perilous frictions between haves and have-nots. The vast majority of all the world’s known oil reserves is now in the hands of national oil companies, largely in countries with corrupt and autocratic governments. Many of these governments—Iran and Venezuela top the list—are now seen as antagonists of the United States. Tightened oil supplies will substantially boost these countries’ political leverage, but that enhanced power will carry its own peril. Playing the oil card when nations are scrambling for every barrel will be a far more serious matter that at any time in the past. The European continent could also undergo a profound shift as its needs—and sources of energy—diverge all the more from those of the United States. A conservation-oriented Europe (oil demand is on the decline in almost every EU country) will look all the more askance at what it sees as the gluttonous habits of the United States. At the same time, Europe’s governments may have little choice but to shy from any political confrontations with its principal energy supplier, Russia. An energy-restricted future will greatly enhance Russia’s clout within settings like the UN Security Council but also in its dealings with both Europe and China. Abundant oil and gas have fueled Russia’s return to power over the last decade, giving it renewed standing within the UN and increasing sway over European capitals. The peak oil threat is already sending shivers through the big developing countries of China and India, whose propulsive growth (and own internal stability) requires massive doses of energy. For Beijing, running low on fuel spells economic chaos and internal strife, which in turn spawns images of insurrection and a breaking up of the continent sized country. Slumping oil supplies will automatically pit the two largest energy consumers—the United States and China—against one another in competition over supplies in South America, West Africa, the Middle East, and Central Asia. China is already taking this competition very seriously. It doesn’t require much of a leap to imagine a Cold War-style scramble between Washington and Beijing—not for like-minded allies this time but simply for reliable and tested suppliers of oil. One region that offers promise and peril in almost equal measure is the Artic, which many in the oil industry consider the last big basin of untapped hydrocarbon riches. But the Artic remains an ungoverned ocean whose legal status couldn’t be less clear, especially so long as the United States continues to remain outside the international Law of the Sea Treaty. As the ices there recede, the risk increases that a scramble for assets in the Artic could turn nasty. No country, finally, will face more varied and far-reaching strains in an oil-constrained future than the United States. Its global military posture will have to shoulder even greater policing responsibilities, from the Gulf of Guinea to the Strait of Hormuz, just as it faces unprecedented challenges in keeping its own fuel tanks full. The United States will also see its very status as the world’s lone superpower [will be] put into question as its oil-dependent economy faces rising unemployment, falling home values, and the reality of being ever deeper in hawk to countries halfway around the world. The gloomiest prognosticators envision a future in which America’s entire postwar boom—with its massive interstates and suburban sprawl—is thrown violently into reverse. A jolt of even a quarter that magnitude could still spark a period of angry victimization, when both the public and their elected officials seek out those who are to blame for the country’s travails.

That causes the US to override rational calculations and ignite global wars for oil
King 2008 (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en)
In the United States, the prospect of diminished oil supplies and skyrocketing prices raises fears of recession, ebbing international status, and a transformation of the American way of life. In the big developing countries of Asia—above all China— the same prospect evokes images of mass unrest and the denial of potential superpower status. No country has been more determined than China over the last decade to assure that its rapid rise isn’t tripped up by a lack of energy. In Angola, Nigeria, Sudan, Iran, and across Central Asia, the Chinese government and Chinese state companies are going to extraordinary lengths to build infrastructure, create alliances, and sew up oil contracts. The ultimate aim is to lock in a number of long-term exclusive arrangements with suppliers in Africa, the Middle East, and Central Asia that would give China the assurance it seeks that no supply disruption will derail its economic ambitions. China’s quest to build a major deep-sea naval force, analysts say, is driven in part by its desire to protect critical sea lanes like the Strait of Malacca, through which all Asia-bound Middle East oil must pass. The Defense Department, in its more recent report on the “Military Power of the People’s Republic of China,” said that beyond Beijing’s usual fixation on Taiwan, an “analysis of China’s military acquisitions and strategic thinking suggests Beijing is also developing capabilities for use in other contingencies, such as conflict over resources.”5 The Bush administration has also cast an increasingly wary eye on Russia’s myriad efforts to tighten its energy grip over Europe, particularly when it comes to Europe’s increasing dependence on imported natural gas. Beyond its own abundant supply routes to Europe from its own territory, Russia’s Gazprom is now busy working to lock down supply arrangements from the Caspian, Iran, and North Africa. The recent fighting in Georgia has highlighted Western Europe’s vulnerabilities on the energy front. A key energy conduit, Georgia is home to the only oil pipeline outside of Russian control that can move the oil riches of the Caspian region to markets in the West. In the first week of its August war with Georgia, Russia dropped bombs within feet of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline and took down a railroad bridge that carried Kazak crude to the Georgian port of Poti. At the same time, many of the recent fulminations in Congress over Saudi Arabia’s alleged unwillingness to boost its output illustrate that a strong sense of resource entitlement continues to live on within the U.S. political establishment. While Rep. Ros-Lehtinen demands heatedly that the Saudis pump more oil to help commuters in Miami, she also opposes calls to open Florida’s Gulf coast to oil exploration. Many commentators in the United States and abroad have begun to wrestle with the question of whether soaring oil prices and market volatility could spark an outright oil war between major powers—possibly ignited not by China or Russia, but by the United States. In a particularly pointed speech on the topic in May, James Russell of the Naval Postgraduate School in California addressed what he called the increasing militarization of international energy security. “Energy security is now deemed so central to ‘national security’ that threats to the former are liable to be reflexively interpreted as threats to the latter,” he told a gathering at the James A. Baker Institute for Public Policy at Houston’s Rice University.6 The possibility that a large-scale war could break out over access to dwindling energy resources, he wrote, “is one of the most alarming prospects facing the current world system.”7 Mr. Russell figures among a growing pool of analysts who worry in particular about the psychological readiness of the United States to deal rationally with a sustained oil shock. Particularly troubling is the increasing perception within Congress that the financial side of the oil markets no longer functions rationally. It has either been taken over by speculators or is being manipulated, on the supply side, by producers who are holding back on pumping more oil in order to drive up the price. A breakdown in trust for the oil markets, these analysts fear, could spur calls for government action—even military intervention. “The perceptive chasm in the United States between new [oil] market realities and their impact on the global distribution of power will one day close,” Mr. Russell said. “And when it does, look out.”8

Extinction
Lewis 1998 (Chris H, Professor in Sewall Academic Program at CU-Boulder, “The Coming Age of Scarcity,” Pg 56)
Most critics would argue, probably correctly, that instead of allowing underdeveloped countries to withdraw from the global economy and undermine the economies of the developed world, the United States, Europe, and Japan and others will fight neocolonial wars to force these countries to remain within this collapsing global economy. These neocolonial wars will result in mass death, suffering, and even regional nuclear wars. If first world countries choose military confrontation and political repression to maintain the global economy, then we may see mass death and genocide on a global scale that will make the deaths of World War II pale in comparison. However, these neocolonial wars, fought to maintain the developed nations' economic and political hegemony, will cause the final collapse of our global industrial civilization. These wars will so damage the complex economic and trading networks and squander material, biological and energy resources that they will undermine the global economy and its ability to support the earth's 6 to 8 billion people. This would be the worst case scenario for the collapse of global civilization.

Resource wars are the most likely point of conflict
Klare 2006 (Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)
It's official: the era of resource wars is upon us. In a major London address, British Defense Secretary John Reid warned that global climate change and dwindling natural resources are combining to increase the likelihood of violent conflict over land, water and energy. Climate change, he indicated, "will make scarce resources, clean water, viable agricultural land even scarcer" -- and this will "make the emergence of violent conflict more rather than less likely." Although not unprecedented, Reid's prediction of an upsurge in resource conflict is significant both because of his senior rank and the vehemence of his remarks. "The blunt truth is that the lack of water and agricultural land is a significant contributory factor to the tragic conflict we see unfolding in Darfur," he declared. "We should see this as a warning sign." Resource conflicts of this type are most likely to arise in the developing world, Reid indicated, but the more advanced and affluent countries are not likely to be spared the damaging and destabilizing effects of global climate change. With sea levels rising, water and energy becoming increasingly scarce and prime agricultural lands turning into deserts, internecine warfare over access to vital resources will become a global phenomenon. Reid's speech, delivered at the prestigious Chatham House in London (Britain's equivalent of the Council on Foreign Relations), is but the most recent expression of a growing trend in strategic circles to view environmental and resource effects -- rather than political orientation and ideology -- as the most potent source of armed conflict in the decades to come. With the world population rising, global consumption rates soaring, energy supplies rapidly disappearing and climate change eradicating valuable farmland, the stage is being set for persistent and worldwide struggles over vital resources. Religious and political strife will not disappear in this scenario, but rather will be channeled into contests over valuable sources of water, food and energy. Prior to Reid's address, the most significant expression of this outlook was a report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense by a California-based consulting firm in October 2003. Entitled "An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security," the report warned that global climate change is more likely to result in sudden, cataclysmic environmental events than a gradual (and therefore manageable) rise in average temperatures. Such events could include a substantial increase in global sea levels, intense storms and hurricanes and continent-wide "dust bowl" effects. This would trigger pitched battles between the survivors of these effects for access to food, water, habitable land and energy supplies. "Violence and disruption stemming from the stresses created by abrupt changes in the climate pose a different type of threat to national security than we are accustomed to today," the 2003 report noted. "Military confrontation may be triggered by a desperate need for natural resources such as energy, food and water rather than by conflicts over ideology, religion or national honor." Until now, this mode of analysis has failed to command the attention of top American and British policymakers. For the most part, they insist that ideological and religious differences -- notably, the clash between values of tolerance and democracy on one hand and extremist forms of Islam on the other -- remain the main drivers of international conflict. But Reid's speech at Chatham House suggests that a major shift in strategic thinking may be under way. Environmental perils may soon dominate the world security agenda. This shift is due in part to the growing weight of evidence pointing to a significant human role in altering the planet's basic climate systems. Recent studies showing the rapid shrinkage of the polar ice caps, the accelerated melting of North American glaciers, the increased frequency of severe hurricanes and a number of other such effects all suggest that dramatic and potentially harmful changes to the global climate have begun to occur. More importantly, they conclude that human behavior -- most importantly, the burning of fossil fuels in factories, power plants, and motor vehicles -- is the most likely cause of these changes. This assessment may not have yet penetrated the White House and other bastions of head-in-the-sand thinking, but it is clearly gaining ground among scientists and thoughtful analysts around the world. For the most part, public discussion of global climate change has tended to describe its effects as an environmental problem -- as a threat to safe water, arable soil, temperate forests, certain species and so on. And, of course, climate change is a potent threat to the environment; in fact, the greatest threat imaginable. But viewing climate change as an environmental problem fails to do justice to the magnitude of the peril it poses. As Reid's speech and the 2003 Pentagon study make clear, the greatest danger posed by global climate change is not the degradation of ecosystems per se, but rather the disintegration of entire human societies, producing wholesale starvation, mass migrations and recurring conflict over resources. "As famine, disease, and weather-related disasters strike due to abrupt climate change," the Pentagon report notes, "many countries' needs will exceed their carrying capacity" -- that is, their ability to provide the minimum requirements for human survival. This "will create a sense of desperation, which is likely to lead to offensive aggression" against countries with a greater stock of vital resources. "Imagine eastern European countries, struggling to feed their populations with a falling supply of food, water, and energy, eyeing Russia, whose population is already in decline, for access to its grain, minerals, and energy supply." Similar scenarios will be replicated all across the planet, as those without the means to survival invade or migrate to those with greater abundance -- producing endless struggles between resource "haves" and "have-nots." It is this prospect, more than anything, that worries John Reid. In particular, he expressed concern over the inadequate capacity of poor and unstable countries to cope with the effects of climate change, and the resulting risk of state collapse, civil war and mass migration. "More than 300 million people in Africa currently lack access to safe water," he observed, and "climate change will worsen this dire situation" -- provoking more wars like Darfur. And even if these social disasters will occur primarily in the developing world, the wealthier countries will also be caught up in them, whether by participatin9g in peacekeeping and humanitarian aid operations, by fending off unwanted migrants or by fighting for access to overseas supplies of food, oil, and minerals. When reading of these nightmarish scenarios, it is easy to conjure up images of desperate, starving people killing one another with knives, staves and clubs -- as was certainly often the case in the past, and could easily prove to be so again. But these scenarios also envision the use of more deadly weapons. "In this world of warring states," the 2003 Pentagon report predicted, "nuclear arms proliferation is inevitable." As oil and natural gas disappears, more and more countries will rely on nuclear power to meet their energy needs -- and this "will accelerate nuclear proliferation as countries develop enrichment and reprocessing capabilities to ensure their national security." Although speculative, these reports make one thing clear: when thinking about the calamitous effects of global climate change, we must emphasize its social and political consequences as much as its purely environmental effects. Drought, flooding and storms can kill us, and surely will -- but so will wars among the survivors of these catastrophes over what remains of food, water and shelter. As Reid's comments indicate, no society, however affluent, will escape involvement in these forms of conflict.

Absent resource wars, we are so dependent on oil, it causes mass outrage and regional wars around the globe
King 2008 (Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en)
Many of the biggest names in the oil industry now agree on one point: That whatever the ultimate cause—be it political, geological or a mix of both—the world is now entering a new era of high energy costs and constrained supplies. Just as 1908 marked the birth of the Model T and the advent of the automotive age, historians may one day mark 2008 as the beginning of the end of the age of petroleum. The evidence is strong that this period is not a blip. John Hess, the taciturn chief executive of Hess Oil, made a particularly gloomy case earlier this year for why, as he said, “an oil crisis is coming.”1 Demand growth around the world is unrelenting, and has abated only slightly as prices have soared to unimagined highs. But more to the point, he said, is that the industry isn’t investing enough to surmount the many challenges on the supply side. As a result, oil supply capacity could hit its ceiling by 2015. Others argue that the shortfall could come much sooner. The purpose of this paper is not to argue whether the world is about to hit its oil-production limit. The long-running feud over peak oil remains heated and unsettled, with whole armies of geologists, oil executives and statisticians blasting away from either side. Instead, the aim here is to take the evidence of real trouble ahead, and to explore what strains it may impose on the world’s existing architecture. Evidence of the coming turbulence is not hard to find. The world’s two foremost energy forecasting shops, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) and the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA), are both dropping their habitual optimism and assuming a much darker view of the challenges ahead. The IEA in November will release its first-ever comprehensive study of the world’s oil supplies, and its conclusions are said to be chilling. A vast portion of the oil fields that fuel the world’s cars, trucks, airplanes and ships are now growing tired and depleting rapidly. That depletion rate means that around the world, oil companies every year must bring onstream nearly the equivalent of all of America’s annual oil production just to keep even. Many big producing countries, Norway and Mexico among them, are now in permanent decline. The problem the world faces can be summed up in a simple phrase: its supplies of oil are old and rapidly aging, while demand for that oil is young and rapidly growing. For the first time since the rise of modern capitalism, our society and its engrained way of life—its restlessness, its mobility, its reliance on sustained economic growth and expansion—may literally begin running short of fuel. The ramifications of a sustained supply shortfall, if it comes, will be massive and wide-ranging. Economists are just beginning to examine the dramatic changes the U.S. economy and the global trading system will experience if oil prices continue to notch ever higher. The average cost of a barrel of oil has crept up about $12 every year since 2003. Last year it averaged around $72 a barrel, a figure which this year is all but certain to remain over $100. What this summer has clearly shown is that oil at $150 a barrel or more would force wrenching changes in the United States, where planners would face the challenge of having to reverse a half century of development and sprawl built entirely around the automobile. Far less understood, though, are the equally sweeping national security challenges that will multiply as the impact of sky-high oil prices ripples through international capitals. The current world order has been built on cheap and abundant oil more than any other commodity. Without it, the United States could not have established a global military posture reaching from the shores of Italy to the Pacific outpost of Guam. Nor would the world have seen the breakneck industrialization and economic growth of the last century, much of it driven literally by the U.S. model of upward mobility and individual consumption. Oil, and the need to protect it, secure it, or fight over it, have figured prominently in nearly every major war of the modern age. Those impulses will only increase in an age of scarcity—and with a cast of players far more complicated than during any earlier energy crisis. At the end of the Second World War, as the only real industrialized powers, the United States and Europe jockeyed over control of the oil riches of the Middle East. By 1973, when the West got its first oil scare, the United States still produced a sixth of the world’s oil and consumed almost twice as much every day as did all of Asia, including Australia, China, India, and Japan.

Their nuclear war impacts are false – absent peak oil, common state rationality and the taboo check conflict
Tepperman 9 — Jonathan Tepperman, Deputy Editor of Newsweek, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 (“Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” The Daily Beast, August 28th, Available Online at http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html, Accessed 01-27-2012)
A growing and compelling body of research suggests that nuclear weapons may not, in fact, make the world more dangerous, as Obama and most people assume. The bomb may actually make us safer. In this era of rogue states and transnational terrorists, that idea sounds so obviously wrongheaded that few politicians or policymakers are willing to entertain it. But that's a mistake. Knowing the truth about nukes would have a profound impact on government policy. Obama's idealistic campaign, so out of character for a pragmatic administration, may be unlikely to get far (past presidents have tried and failed). But it's not even clear he should make the effort. There are more important measures the U.S. government can and should take to make the real world safer, and these mustn't be ignored in the name of a dreamy ideal (a nuke-free planet) that's both unrealistic and possibly undesirable. The argument that nuclear weapons can be agents of peace as well as destruction rests on two deceptively simple observations. First, nuclear weapons have not been used since 1945. Second, there's never been a nuclear, or even a nonnuclear, war between two states that possess them. Just stop for a second and think about that: it's hard to overstate how remarkable it is, especially given the singular viciousness of the 20th century. As Kenneth Waltz, the leading "nuclear optimist" and a professor emeritus of political science at UC Berkeley puts it, "We now have 64 years of experience since Hiroshima. It's striking and against all historical precedent that for that substantial period, there has not been any war among nuclear states." To understand why—and why the next 64 years are likely to play out the same way—you need to start by recognizing that all states are rational on some basic level. Their leaders may be stupid, petty, venal, even evil, but they tend to do things only when they're pretty sure they can get away with them. Take war: a country will start a fight only when it's almost certain it can get what it wants at an acceptable price. Not even Hitler or Saddam waged wars they didn't think they could win. The problem historically has been that leaders often make the wrong gamble and underestimate the other side—and millions of innocents pay the price. Nuclear weapons change all that by making the costs of war obvious, inevitable, and unacceptable. Suddenly, when both sides have the ability to turn the other to ashes with the push of a button—and everybody knows it—the basic math shifts. Even the craziest tin-pot dictator is forced to accept that war with a nuclear state is unwinnable and thus not worth the effort. As Waltz puts it, "Why fight if you can't win and might lose everything?" Why indeed? The iron logic of deterrence and mutually assured destruction is so compelling, it's led to what's known as the nuclear peace: the virtually unprecedented stretch since the end of World War II in which all the world's major powers have avoided coming to blows. They did fight proxy wars, ranging from Korea to Vietnam to Angola to Latin America. But these never matched the furious destruction of full-on, great-power war (World War II alone was responsible for some 50 million to 70 million deaths). And since the end of the Cold War, such bloodshed has declined precipitously. Meanwhile, the nuclear powers have scrupulously avoided direct combat, and there's very good reason to think they always will. There have been some near misses, but a close look at these cases is fundamentally reassuring—because in each instance, very different leaders all came to the same safe conclusion. Take the mother of all nuclear standoffs: the Cuban missile crisis. For 13 days in October 1962, the United States and the Soviet Union each threatened the other with destruction. But both countries soon stepped back from the brink when they recognized that a war would have meant curtains for everyone. As important as the fact that they did is the reason why: Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev's aide Fyodor Burlatsky said later on, "It is impossible to win a nuclear war, and both sides realized that, maybe for the first time." The record since then shows the same pattern repeating: nuclear-armed enemies slide toward war, then pull back, always for the same reasons. The best recent example is India and Pakistan, which fought three bloody wars after independence before acquiring their own nukes in 1998. Getting their hands on weapons of mass destruction didn't do anything to lessen their animosity. But it did dramatically mellow their behavior. Since acquiring atomic weapons, the two sides have never fought another war, despite severe provocations (like Pakistani-based terrorist attacks on India in 2001 and 2008). They have skirmished once. But during that flare-up, in Kashmir in 1999, both countries were careful to keep the fighting limited and to avoid threatening the other's vital interests. Sumit Ganguly, an Indiana University professor and coauthor of the forthcoming India, Pakistan, and the Bomb, has found that on both sides, officials' thinking was strikingly similar to that of the Russians and Americans in 1962. The prospect of war brought Delhi and Islamabad face to face with a nuclear holocaust, and leaders in each country did what they had to do to avoid it. Nuclear pessimists—and there are many—insist that even if this pattern has held in the past, it's crazy to rely on it in the future, for several reasons. The first is that today's nuclear wannabes are so completely unhinged, you'd be mad to trust them with a bomb. Take the sybaritic Kim Jong Il, who's never missed a chance to demonstrate his battiness, or Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has denied the Holocaust and promised the destruction of Israel, and who, according to some respected Middle East scholars, runs a messianic martyrdom cult that would welcome nuclear obliteration. These regimes are the ultimate rogues, the thinking goes—and there's no deterring rogues. But are Kim and Ahmadinejad really scarier and crazier than were Stalin and Mao? It might look that way from Seoul or Tel Aviv, but history says otherwise. Khrushchev, remember, threatened to "bury" the United States, and in 1957, Mao blithely declared that a nuclear war with America wouldn't be so bad because even "if half of mankind died … the whole world would become socialist." Pyongyang and Tehran support terrorism—but so did Moscow and Beijing. And as for seeming suicidal, Michael Desch of the University of Notre Dame points out that Stalin and Mao are the real record holders here: both were responsible for the deaths of some 20 million of their own citizens. Yet when push came to shove, their regimes balked at nuclear suicide, and so would today's international bogeymen. For all of Ahmadinejad's antics, his power is limited, and the clerical regime has always proved rational and pragmatic when its life is on the line. Revolutionary Iran has never started a war, has done deals with both Washington and Jerusalem, and sued for peace in its war with Iraq (which Saddam started) once it realized it couldn't win. North Korea, meanwhile, is a tiny, impoverished, family-run country with a history of being invaded; its overwhelming preoccupation is survival, and every time it becomes more belligerent it reverses itself a few months later (witness last week, when Pyongyang told Seoul and Washington it was ready to return to the bargaining table). These countries may be brutally oppressive, but nothing in their behavior suggests they have a death wish.

Status quo multilateralism empirically solves escalation – however, post-peak resource wars are the only scenario for nuclear war
Watson 5 (Roland, Author of various reports and the investment newsletter The New Era Investor, “Peak Oil & Nuclear War,” http://www.powerswitch.org.uk/portal/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=912 ;)
Now here we are 30 years on. The Soviet Union has collapsed under its own weight, its satellite states have gone their own way and DEFCON is a word you don't hear very often. As we approach the 60th anniversary of the only use of nuclear weapons in warfare, we may all feel a little bit confident in the ability of human beings to work things out between ourselves. Progressing into this new century, the disaster topics of the day are Global Warming and Peak Oil. Nuclear War is nowhere to be seen and is relegated to the "special interests" section. But if Peak Oil is the elephant in the living room, will Nuclear War turn out to be the brontosaurus (don't ask me what type of living room we are talking about here)? I have taken the view that Peak Oil in its initial stages is an economic event per se. If we only had to look at Peak Oil in those terms then things may be a bit predictable. However, life is a sequence of causes and effects. An obscure duke is assassinated and World War I ensues. The Treaty of Versailles is signed and Adolf Hitler arises. Global oil production hits a peak forever and nuclear war prevails. The last proposition is obviously not written in stone, but it ought to be discussed. Most of the nuclear warheads that people worried about in the 1970s are still around in some form. Where those missles are currently targetted continues to be state secrets. What does it take for them to be used? What are the stress points in international relations that send these harbingers of destruction skywards? Peak Oil commentators talk about "resource wars". Perhaps they are thinking of something along the lines of Gulf Wars I and II. Do they want to think in elephantine or brontosaurian terms? What will a nuclear power be prepared to do to get their point across? Hiroshima and Nagasaki ended one resource war, at what stage will they be used in the next resource wars? Now if anyone thinks these weapons will never be used again better think twice. They have been used and will be used again. We just hope they won't be used in our lifetimes. So what may happen? The scenarios are manifold but revolve around that phase in the post-peak oil era where things are beginning to bite. The wealthy nations have already been purged of their excess wealth and consumerism but alternate energy sources are coming online and offering some promise. However, some nuclear armed nations are not progressing as rapidly in those areas as they ought to. Their populations demand energy for the basics as well as life's little luxuries and they expect their governments to get it. The Middle East is now under a form of Western Protectorate as civil strife and war afflicts those oil producing nations and American warships ensure safe passage for oil supertankers through the Persian Gulf. Beset with young but disaffected populations, they struggle with economic depression and revolutionary islamic groups. Neighbouring Israel is the continued target of skirmishes and intermittent attacks as it nervously holds onto its nuclear trigger. Meanwhile, China demands a fair deal for distribution of crude oil production at the United Nations and threatens action against the USA and Britain if they persist in their "oil for protection" racket.

Resource scarcity is the only scenario for nuclear war and it will cause it – human nature and the US is unprepared
Cleveland Mark Blakemore, January 6th, 2010 (writer of Vault-co, “The Coming Nuclear War Over Resources,” http://vault-co.blogspot.com/2010/01/coming-nuclear-war-over-resources.html, this evidence is gender modified >:)
The Coming Nuclear War over Resources These conditions historically lead to war. [Human] is a warlike animal and has not changed one iota in recent times. [Humans] under stress who are forced to compete for resources turn to war because it is in their bloodstream. When the only biological weapon you have mentally is a hammer, every problem seems to you to be a nail. It is the genetic prison cell that lines our brains. If [humans] reacted any other way they would no longer be human as we know it. They would be something else. [A human] by definition is a creature who solves his problems by killing others and the spoils go to the genetic lines that kill first, without mercy or qualms. They are the [humans] who have borne the children who surround you right now. Our race is the lineage of Cain and only scarcity makes us act according to our innermost nature. Do you want to pause to try to think about a more rational solution? Well, your head will be crushed by a rock thrown by another [human] who simply acts impulsively and it is that [human] who will write history and lie down with your wives and daughters. See why this is a rigged game designed in such a way that sane people cannot win at it? The crazy thing is, because of modern weapons, psychopaths and sociopaths can't win at it anymore either. They won't allow that notion to stay their hand, however. Britain same. No growing season means no food and no food means worldwide famine. To produce more food with modern agricultural methods means you need more fuel The U.S. Government isn't worried. How bad could it be? It's not like the end of the world or anything. What is important is that cappuccino service is not interrupted, especially not those little mints on the side. Nobody is leaving Afghanistan until the question of who will control the Caspian pipeline is settled. That question will be solved by World War III. Anyway, it's not like everybody and their brother are all going to jump into one massive battle with each other otherwise in a global free-for-all.

Adapting now is key – waiting until the peak means we won’t survive the transition
Roberts 2004 (Paul, Regular Contributor to Various Periodicals, Finalist for the National Magazine Award in 1999 and for the New York Public Library Award for Excellence in Journalism in 2005, “The End of Oil”, Pg 12)
Yet despite the staying power of the status quo, each year that energy consumption continues unabated, the end of the current energy system not only becomes more inevitable but appears more likely to occur as a traumatic event. As energy supplies become harder to transport, as environmental effects worsen, and as energy diplomacy sows even greater geopolitical discord, the weight of the existing energy order becomes less and less bearable – and the possibility of a disruption more undeniable. In the end, this question of disruption may be the most critical one of all – not simply for policymakers and oil sheiks, but for anyone accustomed to filling up at the gas station or switching on an air conditioner; for it is not simply change that affects us, but the rate of change – how quickly and cleanly one way of life is exchanged for another. A swift, chaotic shift in our energy economy almost guarantees disruption, uncertainty, economic loss, even violence. By contrast, were we somehow to manage a gradual, smooth change, phased in over time, we might be able to adapt, minimiz[es]ing our losses and even allowing the more clever of our species to profit from new opportunities.

====1ac solvency==== 

Only a National security priority can spur electrification as soon as possible
Drake 12 (Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, 6/6/12, “The Overlooked Existential Threat & Solution,” http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/overlooked-existential-threat-and.html ;)
One suggestion/possibility is to make electrification of our freight railroads a national security priority, with rail expansion an important secondary issue. The positive impact on the general economy, alone, can justify substantial public subsidies. BNSF, the second largest US railroad, said a few years ago that they could electrify their main lines for $10 billion, including new electric locomotives. This is a bit less than expected from standardized costs, which figured $85 billion to electrify 35,000 miles (STRACNET plus selected lines) with electric locomotives being considered a wash with the diesels they would replace. Extrapolating BNSF nationwide results in a roughly $50 billion estimate for a major strategic shift towards oil free transportation. With a maximum commercial effort (comparable to the current effort to expand tar sands production in Alberta - one step less than war time effort), 35,000 miles could be electrified in seven years (a six year schedule plus a year to allow for Mr. Murphy). Ten or twelve years at a more reasonable, steady rate. With concurrent railroad expansion, and current oil prices, this effort should save at least one million barrels of oil per day (a better overall value than the Kashagan oil field in Kazakhstan). Existing trends towards rail and intermodal shipments should reduce inter-city truck shipments by half as a cheaper alternative with competitive speeds becomes available. In the probable eventuality of higher oil prices, then the shift will be greater than half. In the strategically important area of food - refrigerated trucks use 60 gallons of diesel to just keep their cargo cool from California to the East Coast in the summer. Refrigerated electrified rail cars could use grid electricity. Shifting fruits and vegetables from reefer trucks to grid powered refrigerated railcars is another shift away from oil for essential freight.

Specifically, the plan solves the key bottlenecks in 3-5 years – that is the most cost effective solution
Drake 12 (Alan, Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group, “The Overlooked Existential Threat & Solution,” http://oilfreetransport.blogspot.com/2012/06/overlooked-existential-threat-and.html ;)
In a rational rationing scheme during a severe oil shortage, diesel powered railroads would rank with the military, agriculture, public safety agencies, utilities and healthcare as among the highest priority users. Yet, railroads need not be large volume diesel consumers - regardless of the volume of freight and people carried. “We” can electrify the main rail lines and busiest branch lines and provide cross country oil free transportation for almost all of our freight and some of the demand for personal travel. The most viable large scale adjustment to reduce our strategic vulnerability to oil is to electrify and expand US freight railroads. Freight railroads already carry largely essential goods such as food and critical materials - freight that cannot be easily eliminated during an emergency. Line and terminal capacity improvements plus electrification of major corridors will dramatically reduce rail diesel use. More importantly, it will speed up rail shipments and allow freight currently carried by truck to be shifted to oil free transportation. The most essential parts of electrification and expansion of American freight rail lines can be completed in less than a decade with an urgent effort. The most critical lines could be electrified and bottlenecks eliminated in three to five years.

Empirics prove our solvency argument
Scaglia 10 (Paul, Writer and Resident in Connecticut, http://www.ctpost.com/opinion/article/High-speed-rail-a-national-security-priority-469566.php ;)
Although building these rail lines will be a tough and challenging endeavor to undertake, requiring the same kind of patriotism found during the race to put a man on the moon, the American people should see the issue in the national security issue context. With the rising powers of China and India seeking the same limited resources in the Caspian Sea area and a resurgent Russia buoyed by abundant reserves of natural gas and crude oil, American leaders need to embrace the creation of an alternate transportation network based on electrified high-speed and light rail systems.

Anything that is slower than the aff can’t solve
Alan S. Drake ’10 *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/, October]
The macro-economic advantages of positively and pro-actively transforming one major sector of the economy will help buffer the impact on all other sectors of the economy once world oil exports peak. That peak in world oil exports may have been five years ago in 2005 (the highest to date) or a new peak in world oil exports may be reached in 2030 (the most optimistic projection). A twenty year plan implemented ASAP will be completed in 2031 at the earliest. Regardless of whether the peak in world oil exports was 5 years ago, or will be 20 years hence, there is precious little time to adequately prepare for a future with less oil available each and every year. Starting today, we could stay “ahead of the curve” for a 2030 peak in world oil exports, but only with dedicated efforts. In the much more likely case that the USA will import less oil every year from this year forward, a maximum effort to build and promote oil-free transportation is clearly necessary.

Renewable energy is coming now but will fail – the plan is key to jumpstart development and solve the long term effects of peak oil
Harder 12 (Amy, Energy and Environment reporter for the National Journal, “Boom and Bust: Renewable Energy's Future?” http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/boom-and-bust-renewable-energy.php ;)
Could the recent boom in U.S. renewable energy go bust? That's what a recent report warns might happen given the state of current policy. Without a national energy policy providing certainty for renewable sources like wind and solar, the nascent industries could go bust after a few strong years as beneficiaries of the Obama administration's $90-billion injection of stimulus, suggests the report, conducted by researchers at the Brookings Institution and the World Resources and Breakthrough Institutes. Indeed, renewable-energy policy at the federal level is lagging. The wind industry's production tax credit is set to expire at year's end, and a popular grant program for all types of renewable energy expired last year. Cognizant of this, President Obama last week called on Congress to renew the wind industry's incentive and a manufacturing tax credit created as part of the stimulus. But lawmakers don't seem poised to tackle comprehensive policy providing long-term incentives for renewable energy anytime soon, and any action on temporary tax credits probably won't happen until year's end. And another recent report by the centrist Democratic think tank Third Way warns that without a national energy policy, the U.S. will lose any edge it has in the renewable-energy space to other countries like China and India that provide more stable federal support.

==2ac blocks== 
===2ac states=== 

Interoperability – the fed is key to connect key rail lines
Alan S. Drake ’10 *Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group
[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, October]
Government owned railroads that interconnect with interstate lines such as the Long Island RR, the NorthEast Corridor, the former CSX line in South Florida, several commuter rail lines around Boston, Chicago, etc. and Public Belts at ports are a special case. The easiest and best way to finance useful improvements are federal government grants to electrify, add more rolling stock and improve the ROW. Improvements that could be financed with, say, a penny a gallon tax on imported oil. A National Defense and economic measure to reduce oil dependence that benefits everyone.


=neg= 
==intel== 
===wake=== 

Round 2; Westminster Prepatory PM (Waterways -- Hegemony, Economy, Soybeans)
1NC -- Cap, Wind DA, Elections, Case (w/ Heg Bad)
2NR -- Wind DA, Case Defense

Round 4; Carrollton JB (Tigger -- Competitiveness, Warming)
1NC -- Financing T, Cap K, LOST, Case (w/ Warming Good, Heg Bad, Competitiveness Bad)
2NR -- Warming Good, Case Defense

Round 6; Westminster OG (HSR -- Economy, CO2 Bad)
1NC -- ISI, FTO, LOST Bad, Case Defense
2NR -- ISI, LOST Bad

===gtown=== 

Round 2; Reservoir RB (Climate Adaptation -- Economy, Seaports, Highways)
1NC -- LOST, Cap K, Sunshades, Case (w/ Heg Bad, DeDev)
2NR -- LOST, Case Defense, Condo Good

Round 3; Heritage Hall HP (ERAM -- Data Comm, Air Traffic Control)
1NC -- MPARS, CCW, LOST, Competitiveness K, Case (w/ DeDev)
2NR -- LOST, Case Defense

Round 6; BCC BB (New Orleans -- Politics of Disposability)
1NC -- Framework, Anthro, Case (w/ deMause turn)
2NR -- deMause, Framework

Doubles; Centennial MK (Climate Adaptation -- Economy, Seaports, Highways)
1NC -- LOST, Latex Bubbles CP, Case (w/ Heg Bad, Nuke Deterrence Bad)
2NR -- LOST, Latex Bubbles, Condo Good

===capitol=== 

Round 2; GDS CT (Universal Design -- Disabilities)
1NC -- Gov PIC, EDF, Elections, Gentrification, Case (w/ Tilley Turn)
2NR -- Gov PIC

Round 3; Reservoir SA (Mass Transit -- Race, Climate)
1NC -- Woan K, Elections, Organic Farming CP, Case (w/ Gentrification Turn)
2NR -- Woan, Gentrification Turn, Perf Con Good

Round 6; River Hill SK (Mass Transit -- Race, Food Deserts)
1NC -- Woan K, Elections, Gov PIC, Case (w/ Gentrification Turn)
2NR -- Elections, Case Defense, Perf Con Good

===scranton=== 

Round 1; Bronx Science DG (Climate Adaptation -- Economy, Manufacturing)
1NC -- Inherency, Qatar MCB CP, Fiscal Cliff, Bush Doctrine, Case Defense
2NR -- Qatar MCB, Fiscal Cliff, Condo Good

Round 3; Lexington SL (Guam Road Network -- Japan Relations, Deterrence)
1NC -- Inherency, Road Network PIC, Wind PTC, South Guam Urbanization, Takazato K, Case (w/ Assurance Turn, Kent and Casino Turn, Readiness Turn)
2NR -- Road Network PIC, South Guam Urbanization, Case Defense, Condo Good

Round 5; Head Royce BY (Airport Nomadz -- Pre-emption Bad, Deleuze)
1NC -- Permlessness, Whiteness K, Case (w/ Weizman, Barbrook, Project Mayhem Turns)
2NR -- Whiteness, Weizman, Barbrook

===blake=== 

Round 1; Homewood-Flossmoor GR (Evacuation Infrastructure -- Neolib, Racism)
1NC -- Anti-Framework, Woan K, Case (w/ Miles and Austin Turn, State Bad)
2NR -- Woan K, State Bad

Round 3; OPRF MM (Relational Planning)
1NC -- Consult the Tribes, Woan K, Case (w/ Animal Deaths DA)
2NR -- Consult the Tribes

Round 5; Northside SW (National Infrastructure Bank -- Economy, China Cyberattacks)
1NC -- Financing T, Whiteness K, Fiscal Cliff, Export-Import Bank CP, Case (w/ Outsourcing Turn, Data Cooking, Stimulus Bad)
2NR -- Ex-Im CP, Fiscal Cliff, Case Defense

===mba=== 

Round 1; Niles West PN (Port Security -- Terrorism, Economy)
1NC -- Immigration Ptx DA, Multilateralism CP, Whiteness K, Case (w/ Iran Prolif Good, Naval Power Bad)
2NR -- Whiteness K

Round 3; Blake MS (LNG Terminals -- Asia, Trade, Warming)
1NC -- Advantage CP (Marine Cloud Brightening + LOST), Immigration Ptx DA, Whiteness K, Case (w/ Net Warming Turn)
2NR -- Immigration, Case Defense

Round 6; Meadows EK (National Infrastructure Bank -- State Budgets, Economy)
1NC -- Immigration Ptx DA, Financing T, Terrorism K, Export-Import Bank CP, Case (w/ Outsourcing, Data Cooking turns, Stimulus Bad, Ecology turn)
2NR -- Ex-Im CP, Immigration, Case Defense

===lexington=== 

Round 2; NFA GS (Native Roads/Bridges -- Native Economies, Quality of Life)
1NC -- Everything CP, Immigration Ptx DA, Consult the Tribes, Woan/Give Back the Land K, Case (w/ Trapani turn)
2NR -- Trapani, Woan/GBTL

Round 3; Bishop Loughlin CU (Eurofem Review Board -- Ecofeminism, Standpoint Epistemology)
1NC -- States, Financing T, Immigration Ptx DA, Black Feminism K, Case (w/ Mind-Body Dichotomy, Ecology, Gentrification turns, Util)
2NR -- Immigration, Util, Mind-Body Dichotomy Turn, Condo/Topicality Good

Round 5; Westminster ZY (Port Dredging -- Economy, Agriculture)
1NC -- Immigration Ptx DA, Whiteness K, Marine Biodiversity DA, Hydraulic Dredging PIC, Case (w/ Bottleneck Exports turn, Corn Prices turn)
2NR -- Hydraulic Dredging PIC, Air Pollution Internal N/B

Octafinals; Bronx Science BK (Climate Adaptation -- Economy, Hegemony)
1NC -- Immigration Ptx DA, Whiteness K, CO2 Ionization CP, Case (w/ Air Power Bad, Dedev)
2NR -- CO2 Ionization CP, Global Warming Bad

===pennsbury=== 

Round 2; Thomas Jefferson LS (Native Transportation Trust Fund -- Poverty)
1NC -- Climate Change Ptx DA, Give Back the Land, Consult the Tribes CP, Case (w/ Trapani turn)
2NR -- Trapani, Give Back the Land, Case Defense

Round 4; Harrisonburg HM [<3 Aubtin] (Minoritarian TI -- Affect, Deleuze)
1NC -- Wilderson, Case (w/ Nomads Bad)
2NR -- Wilderson, Nomads Bad

Round 5; Stuyvesant CL [<3 Ezra/Anne] (Utility Minimization -- Consumerism, Psychoanalysis)
1NC -- Wilderson, Justifications PIK, Case (w/ Dialectical Materialism turn)
2NR -- Wilderson

Octafinals; Centennial HK (Climate Adaptation -- Economy, Climate Leadership)
1NC -- Sprawl DA, Immigration Reform Ptx DA, CO2 Ionization + UN Climate Talks CP (w/ Warming Bad), Whiteness K, Case Defense
2NR -- CO2 Ionization CP, Warming Bad

Quarterfinals; National Cathedral HS (Climate Adaptation -- Economy, Climate Leadership)
1NC -- Immigration Reform Ptx DA, Climate Mitigation CP (w/ Warming Bad), Whiteness K, Case Defense
2NR -- Climate Mitigation CP, Warming Bad

===harvard=== 

Round 2; Woodward DS (Surface Transportation -- Progressivism, Modern Monetary Theory)
1NC -- Immigration Reform Ptx DA, Whiteness K, Inland Waterways PIC (w/ Wind Power Bad), Case (w/ Hyperinflation turn)
2NR -- Inland Waterways PIC, Wind Power Bad

Round 4; Phoenix Military Academy ER (Native Roads/Bridges -- Racism, Neoliberalism)
1NC -- Immigration Reform Ptx DA, Give Back the Land, Consult the Tribes CP, Case (w/ Trapani turn)
2NR -- Give Back the Land, Trapani, Case Defense

Round 6; Johns Creek SS (Bridge Discourse -- Colonialism, Red Pedagogy)
1NC -- Anthropocentrism K, Bartleby Politics
2NR -- Anthropocentrism K

===lakeland=== 

Round 1; Bronx Science DG (Climate Adaptation -- Disposability, Politics of Disaster)
1NC -- Climate Mitigation CP (w/ Warming Bad), Hartman K, Case (w/ Gentrification turn)
2NR -- Climate Mitigation CP, Warming Bad

Round 3; BCC JM (Free Mass Transit -- Neoliberalism, Knowledge Production)
1NC -- Gentrification DA, Woan/Normativity K, Case Defense
2NR -- Normativity

Round 6; Lexington AR (Apra Harbor Dredging -- Japan Relations, Naval Deterrence)
1NC -- Takazato K, Hydraulic Dredging PIC, Apra Biodiversity DA, Immigration Reform (Ptx), Case Defense
2NR -- Hydraulic Dredging PIC, Apra Biodiversity DA, Case Defense

Octafinals; Beacon YR (Graffiti -- Afropessimism, Bombing the System)
1NC -- Becoming Minor, Anthropocentrism K, Case (w/ Afropessimism bad, Black-white binary, Neoliberalism turns)
2NR -- Anthropocentrism K

==t== 
===anti-framework=== 
====1nc anti-f/w==== 

**Interpretation – the United States federal government is the people**
Mark **Perkel**, **no date** (computer visionary, “The Fourth Branch of Government is the People,” http://www.perkel.com/politics/issues/fourth.htm >:)
In school you were taught that the Government has three branches, the Legislative branch, the Executive branch, and the Judicial branch. The Legislative branch is the Congress and they make the laws. The Executive branch is the President, who runs the daily business of government. The Judicial branch is the Courts who interpret the law and determine of laws are constitutional. These are the three branches of government you were taught in the government-controlled schools. But the government is the People.

**Violation – the affirmative defends a hypothetical implementation of transportation infrastructure by bureaucracies in Washington DC, not individual advocacy**

**Vote neg –**
**1.) Limits – shifting the discussion from the level of our communities and individual lives to Washington DC leads to thousands of unpredictable policy changes in abstract legislative processes that become undebatable**

**2.) Ground – they make us debate a world where we compare bureaucratic policy instead of individual agency; that turns us into spectators**
**MITCHELL**, prof communications University of Pittsburgh, **95**
Gordon Mitchell, Univ. of Pittsburgh Communications prof, “REFLEXIVE FIAT: INCORPORATING THE OUTWARD ACTIVIST TURN INTO CONTEST STRATEGY”, paper presented to the 1995 SCA National Convention
One problem with approaches to fiat which feature such a structural separation between advocate and agent of change is that such approaches tend to instill political apathy by inculcating a spectator mentality. The function of fiat which gives debaters simulated political control over external actors coaxes students to gloss over consideration of their concrete roles as involved agents in the controversies they research. The construct of fiat, in this vein, serves as a political crutch by alleviating the burden of demonstrating a connection between in-round advocacy and the action by external actors defended in plan or counterplan mandates.

**3.) Voter for education – competing interpretations are good – we should debates what would be holistically good for debate, not what is good in this debate – their interpretation is arbitrary and only self serving**

===financing t=== 
====1nc financing==== 

**Infrastructure investment is building or maintaining physical assets.**
**Chan et al**, 20**09**
Chan, C., Forwood, D., Roper, H., and Sayers, C. March 2009, “Public Infrastructure Financing — An International Perspective,” Productivity Commission Staff Working Paper (The Productivity Commission is the Australian Government’s independent research and advisory body on a range of economic, social and environmental issues affecting the welfare of Australians. Its role, expressed most simply, is to help governments make better policies, in the long term interest of the Australian community.), http://www.pc.gov.au/data/assets/pdf_file/0008/86930/public-infrastructure-financing.pdf, p. 10
Investment can be regarded as an act of forgoing current consumption by allocating economic resources such as labour and capital to create increased capacities for future production and income. In the case of infrastructure, investment typically involves building new or maintaining existing long-lived physical assets.1 / ----START FOOTNOTE---- / 1 Maintenance is considered as investment because it entails certain costs and in return gives rise to a stream of future benefits. Further, the determinant of maintenance are the same as those for new investments, namely cost of funds and rate of asset utilisation (Bitros 1976). / ----END FOOTNOTE----/ Infrastructure investment mostly requires significant outlays during the asset-building phase of a project. On the other hand, the revenue flow to be generated from an infrastructure project, or its funding (in the case with social infrastructure) is spread over the economic life of the asset. This can lead to a divergence between the supply of and demand for project funds over time — even for projects that have the potential for full cost recovery. / Financing and refinancing — that is, raising and allocating cash flows to meet resource costs — play a crucial role in overcoming inter-temporal funding constraints. This enables productive infrastructure investment to be realised sooner than otherwise possible (or which might not otherwise have occurred).

**VIOLATION – the plan does not build physical assets, it only raises money for that purpose which is distinctly not investment.**
**Chan et al**, 20**09**
Chan, C., Forwood, D., Roper, H., and Sayers, C. March 2009, “Public Infrastructure Financing — An International Perspective,” Productivity Commission Staff Working Paper (The Productivity Commission is the Australian Government’s independent research and advisory body on a range of economic, social and environmental issues affecting the welfare of Australians. Its role, expressed most simply, is to help governments make better policies, in the long term interest of the Australian community.), http://www.pc.gov.au/data/assets/pdf_file/0008/86930/public-infrastructure-financing.pdf, p. 3
This study is not directly concerned with investment. There are inherent differences between the economic functions of ‘investment funding’ and ‘financing’. Investment is about whether to allocate economic resources, whereas financing is about raising and allocating ‘monies’ or ‘finances’ — which are not economic resources, just claims on them as inputs. This distinction has significant implications for policy issues relevant to the efficient provision of public infrastructure (Brennan 1996). An efficiently financed project in no way guarantees that the project itself satisfies the criteria of allocative efficiency.

**VOTE NEG – ONE – EDUCATION – First-order question is should we build, not how should we finance.**
Timothy J. **Brennan**, Professor, Public Policy and Economics, University of Maryland Baltimore County, 19**96**, “BALANCING PRESENT COSTS AND FUTURE BENEFITS,” FINANCING TOMORROW'S INFRASTRUCTURE: CHALLENGES AND ISSUES, NATIONAL ACADEMY PRESS: WASHINGTON, D.C., p. 13
SHOULD WE BUILD AND FOR WHOM? / Whether these financing effects are major first-order effects or minor second-order effects is something about which economists argue a great deal. The answer is likely to vary from context to context. The reason I offer this short review on the basic economics of deficit spending is to indicate why I believe financial issues are second order. Ultimately, we should be talking more about whether or not an investment should be made and not so much about how it should be financed—recognizing, of course, that it should be financed as efficiently as possible. / This brings us to the generational issue. The decision to make a public investment in infrastructure is a decision to direct resources away from current consumption and private investments to benefit people in the future. The first-order question is whether or not to build. Do we construct new highways? Do we expand the water system? Do we invest hundreds of billions of dollars in a fiber-optic broadband telecommunications network? These concerns are similar to concerns that arise when considering investing in ecological conservation and environmental protection.

**TWO – FAIRNESS – a broad reading of investment lets aff focus debate on the best ways to raise money for transportation infrastructure instead of actually increasing transportation infrastructure which means limitless reforms with no consistent neg ground since we cannot argue that what they build is bad – that slants every debate in aff’s favor by overstretching neg research.**

**THREE – DETERRENCE – rejecting untopical plans forces aff rethinking leading to more educational and fair debates for all competitors which outweighs the exclusion of a few reasonable plans.**

**FOUR – JURISDICTION – plan-focus debate works only if judges require that plans are within the resolution before approval making T a gateway issue.**

==cps== 
===terrocratz=== 
====1nc gov pic==== 

**[Text: Vikram and I advocate the United States federal terrocrats should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure accessibility investment.]**

**“Government” doesn’t exist – the word is a lie that hides individual responsibility and legitimizes physical violence.**
Frederick **Mann**, B.A., Communications @ Sanford University; Founder, Terra Libra, 19**98**, “‘The Nature of Government’.”
Human Nature and [...] justify their actions.

**This turns the case. Replacing “government” with “terrocrat” avoids the link.**
Frederick **Mann**, B.A., Communications @ Sanford University; Founder, Terra Libra, 19**98**, “‘The Nature of Government’.”
"But to tear [...] definition of "government!"

===consult the tribes=== 
====1nc consult the tribes==== 

**[CP TEXT: United States Department of Transportation ought to enter into prior, binding and ongoing consultation with the Tribal governments on whether the United States federal government ought to substantially increase its relationally planned transportation infrastructure with the possibility of minor modifications during and after implementation and abide by the results of that consultation.]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**CP solves case – this card is from the DOT means the CP’s super-predictable**
**Department of Transportation**, February 17th, 20**10** (United States Department of Transportation, “U.S. Department of Transportation Tribal Consultation Plan,” http://www.dot.gov/sites/dot.dev/files/docs/DOT_Tribal_Consultation_Plan.pdf >:)
The USDOT issued Order 5301.1, “Department of Transportation Programs, Policies, and Procedures Affecting American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Tribes” on November 16, 1999. This Order affirms the Department’s and the USDOT Modal Administrations’ unique legal relationship with Indian tribes, establishes the Department’s consultation and coordination process with Indian tribes for any action that may significantly or uniquely affect them, and lists goals for Modal Administrations to meet when carrying out policies, programs, and activities affecting American Indians, Alaska Natives, and tribes. The requirements established for Modal Administrations under this Order are designed to recognize Indian statutory preferences in employment, Federal financial assistance arrangements, and contracting; respond to the transportation concerns of Indian tribes related to environmental justice, children’s safety and environmental health risks, occupational health and safety, and environmental matters; foster opportunities for hiring tribal members and increasing participation in Federal training activities; include tribal colleges and universities in Departmental educational, research, and program activities; and treat correspondence from leaders of Indian tribes in the same manner as Congressional correspondence. The Department affirms its commitment to these principles, and those set forth in Executive Order 13175 and the President’s November 5, 2009 memorandum, in establishing this plan of actions.

**Net benefit – bringing tribal perspectives into transportation policy is uniquely key to native sovereignty**
**Department of Transportation**, February 17th, 20**10** (United States Department of Transportation, “U.S. Department of Transportation Tribal Consultation Plan,” http://www.dot.gov/sites/dot.dev/files/docs/DOT_Tribal_Consultation_Plan.pdf >:)
The United States government has a unique legal relationship with Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments as set forth in the Constitution of the United States, treaties, statutes, and court decisions. The Federal government recognizes the right of self-determination for Indian tribal governments and the obligation to work with Indian tribal governments in a government-to-government relationship. As an executive agency, the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) has a responsibility and is committed to working with Indian tribal governments in this unique relationship, respecting tribal sovereignty and self-determination.

**Failure to consult means racist transportation-planning practices will render Native Americans invisible**
Robert D. **Bullard**, Glenn S. **Johnson and** Angel O. **Torres**, Publish 20**04**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 18-19:)
In their attempt to test the reality of the Brown decision, the Freedom Riders never made it to New Orleans. Instead they were met by angry white mobs and racist police. Nevertheless, no amount of government sanctioned violence could dampen the spirits and iron will of the freedom fighters. Suffering beatings and fire-bombings at the hands of mobs and police, more than four hundred Freedom Riders had been arrested by late summer 1961 for fighting transportation racism.' The combined efforts of civil rights groups such as the Congress for Racial Equality (CORE), Student Nonviolent coordinating Committee (SNCC), Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), Nashville Christian Leadership Conference (NCLC), Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights, and National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) prompted the Kennedy Administration to provide federal protection for the Freedom Riders and forced the Kennedy Administration to take a stand on civil rights. More importantly, the "Freedom Riders generated movement activity and music, helping educate and galvanize the black community for protest."" Race Matters Although the US has made tremendous strides in civil rights, race still matters in America.0 In his classic book Invisible Man, Ralph Ellison illustrated that white racism not only harms individuals, but it also renders black people and their communities invisible." By one definition, white racism is the "socially organized set of attitudes, ideas, and practices that deny African Americans and other people of color the dignity, opportunities, freedoms, and rewards that this nation offers white Americans."14 Racism combines with public policies and industry practices to provide benefits for whites while shifting costs to people of coloris Many racist acts and practices are institutionalized informally and in some cases become standard public policy. For decades, it was legal and common practice for transit agencies to operate separate and unequal systems for whites and blacks and for city, county, and state government officials to use tax dollars to provide transportation amenities for white communities while denying the same services to black communities. American cities continue to be racially polarized. Residential apartheid is the dominant housing pattern for most African Americans still the most segregated ethnic group in the country. Nowhere is this separate society contrast more apparent than in the nation's central cities and large metropolitan areas. Urban America typifies the costly legacy of slavery, Jim Crow, and institutionalized discrimination:6 America's dirty secret, institutionalized racism is part of our national heritage:7 Racism is a potent tool for sorting people into their physical environmenti8 St. Claire Drake and Horace R. Cayton, in their 1945 groundbreaking Black Metropolis, documented the role racism played in creating Chicago's South Side ghetto.'9 In 1965, psychologist Kenneth Clark proclaimed that racism created our nation's "dark ghettos."2° In 1968, the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, the Kerner Commission, reported that "white society is deeply implicated in the ghetto" and that "white institutions created it, white institutions maintain it, and white society condones it."2' The black ghetto is kept contained and isolated from the larger white society through well-defined institutional practices, private actions, and government policies." Even when the laws change, some discriminatory practices remain. Some contend that "racism is an integral, permanent, and indestructible component of this society."" Permanent or not, racism continues to be a central factor in explaining the social inequality, political exploitation, social isolation, and the poor health of people of color in the United States. Furthermore, contemporary race relations in America can no longer be viewed in the black-white paradigm. Racism makes the daily life experiences of most African Americans, Latino Americans, Native Americans, and Asian and Pacific Islander Americans very different from that of most white Americans. Modern racism must be understood as an everyday lived experience.24 Not having reliable public transportation can mean the difference between gainful employment and a life of poverty in the ghettos and barrios. Since most do not have cars, transportation is even more crucial for the vulnerable population that is moving from welfare to work. Training, skills, and jobs are meaningless if millions of Americans can't get to work. Of course, it would be ideal if job centers were closer to the homes of inner-city residents, but few urban core neighborhoods have experienced an economic revitalization that can rival the current jobs found in the suburbs. Transportation remains a major stumbling block for many to achieve self-sufficiency. It boils down to "no transportation, no job," and, more often than not, public transportation does not connect urban residents to jobs. Transportation policies did not emerge in a race- and class-neutral society. Transportation-planning outcomes often reflected the biases of their originators with the losers comprised largely of the poor, powerless, and people of color.

===st00tes=== 
====1nc states==== 

[COUNTER PLAN TEXT: The fifty-states and all relevant territories of the United States should substantially increase investment in the creation of a national transportation infrastructure review board modeled after the EuroFem Agency.]

States solves case and avoids politics.
Gabriel Roth, May 21st, 2012 (research fellow, The Independent Institute, “Phase out federal transport financing!” http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/not-waiting-for-the-feds.php >:)
The principle of “subsidiarity” postulates that government decisions should occur at the lowest practicable level, for example locally rather than nationally. This principle suggests that it is indeed time to relieve the federal government of the burden of financing transportation infrastructure, and of the onus of having to raise the required fees or taxes, and return these responsibilities to the states. The following reasons come to mind: 1. The purpose of federal financing — completion of the Interstate Highway System — has been virtually achieved, and it is difficult to identify other advantages from federal financing. 2. The disadvantages of federal financing — increased costs and intrusive regulation — are evident and substantial. 3. Congress, unable to increase the taxes dedicated to roads, seeks to use general funds to finance some of the transportation expenditures it considers necessary, thus abandoning the US traditional “user pays” principle for roads. 4. Congress keeps deferring long-term road legislation and substituting short-term-extensions of previous (2005) legislation, thus hindering long-term planning of transportation projects. 5. New methods to pay for road use — such as mileage-based user fees to replace fuel taxes — are more likely to succeed as a result of innovations sought by different states, than if imposed by a federal government seeking a “one size fits all” solution. Reliance on general funds has the critical disadvantage that allocations to transportation from general revenues have to compete against other legitimate claims such as defense. On the other hand, when funding is by user fees, expenditures on infrastructure are determined by users’ willingness to pay. I have to admit that, unlike Representative Peter DeFazio, I’ve not read all of the 1,600 plus pages of the Senate bill, but those that I have indicate that it would be best for it to be peacefully laid to rest, in the hope that the next congress could fashion a shorter and better one. Abandonment of this unfortunate bill would benefit the country economically, because the [fed] bill fosters irrelevant spending. For example (as reported by our panelist Ken Orski) the creation of a new “National Endowment for the Oceans, Coasts and Great Lakes” to be housed in the Department of Commerce. It also enables spectacularly wasteful spending, such as the 19th century style Dulles Airport and Honolulu rail connections, which would have vehicles running on rails and stopping at every station. And it would benefit the federal congress fiscally, and politically: Fiscally, because congress has run out of money and is desperately seeking savings; and Politically, because road users — who vote [voters] — get a particularly raw deal from the bill, under which, according to John Mica, Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, some 35 per cent of their payments are diverted to non-road purposes.

==das== 
===lost=== 
====1nc lost==== 

**Battle over LOST coming – first priority for Congress post-election – Obama will push**
Dan **Joling**, August 17th, 2012, **8/17** (writer, Juneau Empire, “Murkowski hopeful on passing the Law of the Sea treaty,” http://juneauempire.com/dan-joling/2012-08-17/murkowski-hopeful-passing-law-sea-treaty#.UEGIEdYia3F >:)
ANCHORAGE — Melting summer [...] hardest,” Murkowski said.

**Transportation investment drains pol cap**
**Freemark ‘12**
(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/)
President Obama barely [...] few bureaucratic reforms.

**Obama push key**
**Bloomberg**, 20**12** (some… company, I guess, “Watch These Global Hotspots for 2012: View,” http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/after-tumult-of-2011-here-are-some-global-hotspots-to-watch-in-2012-view.html >:)
The Arctic: This [...] the peace there.

**LOST ratification’s key to resolve island disputes in Asia – those destabilize the continent**
Michael T. **Klare**, September 4th, 2012, **9/4** (Foreign Affairs, “Island Grabbing in Asia,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/138093/michael-t-klare/island-grabbing-in-asia >:)
Recently, a group [...] on Sino-American relations.

**Asian instability causes war – escalates nuclear**
**Landay, 2k**
(Jonathon S, national security and intelligence correspondent, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, Knight Ridder)
Few if any [...] for potential disaster."

====2nc asia war top-level==== 

**Crisis rationale ensures continual wars**
**Wilson, 6**
(Ward, former Fellow at the Robert Kennedy Memorial Foundation, “Rationale for a study of City Annihilations,” http://wardhayeswilson.squarespace.com/city_annihilation/, NJ [gender modified])
The rationality/risk argument [...] to maximize rewards.

====2nc wake uniqueness==== 

**Senate Democrats will force LOST as the first issue during the lame-duck sesh – but it still won’t pass minus Obama**
Stewart M. **Patrick**, September 5th, 2012, **9/5** (“The South China Sea and the Law of the Sea,” http://blogs.cfr.org/patrick/2012/09/05/the-south-china-sea-and-the-law-of-the-sea/ >:)
Of course, Secretary [...] need is only growing.

====1nc methane hydrates impact==== 

**Ratification by 2012 is necessary for Arctic seabed mining**
Josh **Rogin**, May 23rd, 20**12** (writer, Foreign Policy, “Clinton: Ratify Law of the Sea treaty this year,” http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/05/23/clinton_ratify_law_of_the_sea_treaty_this_year >:)
The U.S. Senate [...] exclusive economic zone.

**Arctic seabed drilling and mining solves methane release through methane hydrate extraction**
Malcolm **Light**, May 27th, 20**12** (Ph.D @ UCL, “A Proposal for the Prevention of Arctic Methane Induced Catastrophic Global Climate Change by Extraction of Methane from beneath the Permafrost/ Arctic Methane Hydrates and its Storage and Sale as a Subsidized "Green Gas" Energy Source,” http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/05/proposal-to-extract-store-and-sell.html >:)
After 2015, when [...] below and 9 above).

**Extinction – outweighs global nuclear war**
**Ryskin ‘3** (Gregory Ryskin, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003, http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf)
METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION [...] nuclear winter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).

====1nc gtown uniqueness==== 

**LOST will pass – lame duck session**
Michael **Tennant**, September 28th, 2012, **9/28** (The New American, “Sen. Lee Thwarts Sneak Attempt to Pass UN Disability Treaty,” http://www.thenewamerican.com/usnews/congress/item/13031-sen-lee-thwarts-sneak-attempt-to-pass-un-disability-treaty >:)
Constitutionalists and others [...] God-given freedoms.

====2nc gtown uniqueness==== 

**LOST will pass – has momentum on Capitol Hill, but cooperation with Republicans is key**
Amanda **Coyne**, September 10th, 2012, **9/10** (reporter for Alaska Dispatch, “Law of the sea: Where do Alaska lawmakers stand? http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/law-sea-where-do-alaska-lawmakers-stand >:)
Alaska U.S. Sen. [...] in an email.

====2nc strait of hormuz impact==== 

**Ratification prevents Iran from closing the Strait of Hormuz**
John T. **Bennett**, May 9th, 20**12** (national security and foreign policy reporter, U.S. News & World Report, “White House calls High Seas treaty a tool against Iran, Russia,” http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/dotmil/2012/05/09/white-house-calls-high-seas-treaty-a-tool-against-iran-russia >:)
The Obama administration [...] and isolate Iran."

**That draws out intervention to clear the Strait – risks escalation**
**Talmadge ‘8** (Caitlin Talmadge, doctoral candidate in political science at the Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, former fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, “Closing Time: Assessing the Iranian Threat to the Strait of Hormuz,” International Security, 33(1), Summer 2008, p.115-116,http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge%20article.pdf)
The United States’ [...] would seem likely.

**That triggers multiple scenarios for bioweapons use**
**Allen ‘7** (Steven J. Allen, former Vice President for Communications, The Progress & Freedom Foundation, Ph.D. in Biodefense, George Mason University, studying under the top scientist for the Soviet biological weapons program, J.D. Cumberland Law School, M.A., B.A. Political Science, Jacksonville State University, “Iran Chemical, Bio Weapons Threat Is Real,” Newsmax, 11-7-2007,http://web.archive.org/web/20071217010210/http://www.newsmax.com/headlines/Iran_Chemical,_Bio_Weapon/2007/11/07/47636.html)
An attack on [...] supplies, experts say.

**Extinction**
**Ochs, ‘02** (Richard; Naturalist – Grand Teton National Park with a Masters in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers, “Biological Weapons must be abolished immediately”, 6/9 www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)
Of all the [...] hundreds of such plagues?

====2nc spratly impact==== 

**Klare indicates that Spratly conflict will happen absent LOST – risks nuke war**
**Nikkei Weekly** (Japan), 6-3-19**95**, “Developing Asian nations should…,” lexis
Many members of [...] even nuclear, war.

====1nc lost bad==== 

**Battle over LOST is coming soon, but it won’t pass – first priority for Congress post-election**
Dan **Joling**, August 17th, 2012, **8/17** (writer, Juneau Empire, “Murkowski hopeful on passing the Law of the Sea treaty,” http://juneauempire.com/dan-joling/2012-08-17/murkowski-hopeful-passing-law-sea-treaty#.UEGIEdYia3F >:)
ANCHORAGE — Melting summer [...] hardest,” Murkowski said.

**Plan is a massive win for Obama**
**Cooper**, 1/25/20**12** (Donna – Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at American Progress, Will Congress Block Infrastructure Spending?, Center for American Progress, p. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/01/infrastructure_sotu.html)
Just as America [...] of our citizens

**That’s key to ratify LOST – Obama needs a win to pass his post-election agenda**
Halimah **Abdullah**, June 8th, 20**12** (CNN political correspondent, “Could Congress go from bad to worse after election?” http://www.cnn.com/2012/06/08/politics/congress-worse-election/index.html?eref=rss_politics&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+rss%2Fcnn_allpolitics+%28RSS%3A+Politics%29 >:)
Washington (CNN) -- Think this current [...] he faces today."

**Ratification by 2012 is necessary for Arctic seabed mining**
Josh **Rogin**, May 23rd, 20**12** (writer, Foreign Policy, “Clinton: Ratify Law of the Sea treaty this year,” http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/05/23/clinton_ratify_law_of_the_sea_treaty_this_year >:)
The U.S. Senate [...] exclusive economic zone.

**That causes drilling accidents leading to methane release**
David **Adam**, April 3rd, 20**05** (science correspondent, The Guardian, “US in race to unlock new energy source,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2005/apr/04/usnews.science >:)
The stakes could [...] global warming worse

**Extinction – outweighs global nuclear war**
**Ryskin ‘3** (Gregory Ryskin, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003, http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf)
METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION [...] nuclear winter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).

====2nc methane release top-level==== 

**Any risk of methane release controls your impact calculus – it’s the most probable and only empirical extinction event, and accesses an invisible threshold**
**Dorritie ‘7** (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,” Killer in our Midst, 2007, http://www.killerinourmidst.com/)
Deep beneath the [...] each passing year.

===elections=== 
====1nc elections==== 

**Ohio is key and Obama will win it now due to low unemployment.**
Michelle **Jamrisko and** Mike **Dorning**, **10-19**-2012, “Ohio Among Six Battleground States With Lower Joblessness,” Bloomberg, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-19/ohio-among-six-battleground-states-with-lower-joblessness.html
The jobless rate [...] and Jimmy Carter.

**Public opposes transportation infrastructure investment – they believe the federal government is wasteful and do not perceive any benefits.**
Ken **Orski**, 2-5-20**12**, editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford, JD, Harvard Law, “WHY PLEAS TO INCREASE INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING FALL ON DEAF EARS,” New Geography, http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears
Finding the resources [...] for more money.

**Independents oppose government stimulus spending.**
Douglas **Schoen**, 2-8-20**12**, pollster for President Bill Clinton, “The forgotten swing voter,” Politico, http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A
Neither party focuses [...] the same gridlock.

**Independents will decide Ohio.**
Paul **Stanley**, **9-28**-2012, Christian Post Reporter, “Independent Voters Could Tilt Race Towards Romney,” http://www.christianpost.com/news/independent-voters-could-tilt-race-towards-romney-82391/
Some political insiders [...] Wall Street Journal.

**Obama is key to Drug War reform.**
Marc **Ambinder, 7-2**-2012, contributing editor at GQ, “Exclusive: In His Second Term, Obama Will Pivot to the Drug War,” GQ Death Race 2012 Blog, http://www.gq.com/news-politics/blogs/death-race/2012/07/exclusive-in-his-second-term-obama-will-pivot-to-the-drug-war.html
According to ongoing [...] so before November.

**Drug War is deliberate institutional racism.**
Joshua Shulman, 3-16-20**12**, Attorney, “Institutionalized Racism and the War on Drugs,” Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/joshua-shulman/the-new-jim-crow_b_1335106.html
Is our Criminal [...] without appearing to."

====2nc memmi==== 

**Opposing racism is the precondition to moral coherence**
Albert **Memmi, 2000**, Racism, p. 159-161
Evidently, I am [...] like a beast.

====2nc awb impact==== 

**Obama key to AWB.**
Sam **Youngman, 10-17**-2012, “Obama suggests he would seek to revive ban on assault weapons,” Reuters, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/10/17/usa-campaign-guns-idUSL1E8LH23E20121017
Democratic President Barack [...] weapons ban reintroduced."

**Assault weapon violence is an on-going WMD.**
Adam **Hollier, 7-29**-2012, candidate for Michigan state representative, District 4, “Automatic weapons: our neighborhood’s weapon of mass destruction,” Michigan Citizen, http://michigancitizen.com/automatic-weapons-our-neighborhoods-weapon-of-mass-destruction/
Licensing all firearms [...] weapon(s) they own.

**AWB is an ethical duty.**
JON **MEACHAM**, **7-23**-2012, executive editor at Random House, “A Gun Owner’s Case Against Assault Weapons,” http://ideas.time.com/2012/07/23/a-gunowners-case-against-assault-weapons/?iid=op-main-lede
Here we are [...]is genuinely tragic.

===fiscal cliff=== 
====1nc fiscal cliff==== 

**Fiscal cliff deal will happen now – but Obama push key**
Robert **Creamer, 11-30**-2012, Political Organizer, Strategist, Author; Partner Democracy Partners, “Five Reasons Obama Will Rout GOP in Lame Duck Budget Battle,” Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-creamer/five-reasons-obama-will-r_b_2218245.html
The odds are increasing that President Obama and the Democrats will rout the Republicans in the current battle over the "fiscal cliff." / I realize that all of the "wise men" of Washington are clamoring for a bi-partisan solution to fix the nation's deficit -- a "solution" that involves "shared sacrifice." But the plain fact is that the deficit is not a bi-partisan problem. Democrat Bill Clinton left Republican George Bush surpluses as far as the eye could see. / Today's deficit was caused when the Republicans cut taxes for the wealthiest Americans and started two wars for which they refused to pay. The deficit got worse when Republican policies caused the financial markets and the economy to collapse in the Great Recession. / That was the Republican legacy inherited by incoming President Barack Obama. Now, after having saved the economy from falling into a depression, laid the groundwork for economic recovery and soundly won reelection, President Obama is poised to force Republicans to do what is critically necessary to right the nation's fiscal situation: raise tax rates on the wealthiest Americans. / And he is likely to be successful without yielding to Republican demands that much of the bill to close the federal deficit be paid by the still-struggling middle class. / The fact is that Obama and the Democrats are holding all the cards. / There are five reasons why Obama is likely to succeed: 1). The "fiscal cliff" is very different than the "debt ceiling." In 2011, the Obama administration believed it was critically important to the economy to avoid a default on the nation's debt. / In that standoff, the GOP held so many cards because many of its members were willing to allow the nation to go into default. They were like terrorists who are willing to blow up themselves -- and everyone else -- to make a political point. / As a result, the Obama administration had to use every tool it could to avoid yet another GOP-induced economic disaster. It was bargaining with a gun to its head. In the circumstances, the outcome was not bad for Democrats. Though the deal did not include increased revenue from the wealthy -- and many key programs that benefit the poor and middle class took a hit -- Democrats avoided disastrous permanent structural changes in Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid. And they took the debt ceiling timebomb out of the GOP's hands until after the fall elections. / Most importantly, they struck a deal that changed the battlefield for the next engagement to a much more advantageous time and place -- after the elections when the Bush Tax cuts were about to expire by law. / It would not be an economic disaster for the country to go over the "fiscal cliff." In fact, going over the cliff will only increase Democratic leverage to reach a deal which eliminates the dreaded "sequester," avoids massive cuts, and most importantly raises taxes on the wealthy. / 2). Expiration of the Bush Tax Cuts. If Congress takes no action at all -- something the Republican Congress is very good at doing -- all tax rates in America will go up to their Clinton-era levels at year's end. The pressure on Republicans will then be enormous to vote yes on the Democratic bill to restore the Bush tax cuts for the 98% of the population that makes less than $250,000 per year -- leaving wealthy Americans paying Clinton-era rates. / After the first of the year, Americans will start seeing an average of over $2,000 per year coming out of their paychecks in withholding. If the Republican leadership refuses to take up the Democratic tax measure, the GOP will be blamed by the voters for the tax increase; it's that simple. / Once the Republican leadership in the House is forced to face reality and bring the bill to a vote, most Republicans will join Democrats in supporting the measure -- whether or not it is coupled with any further "spending cuts." Otherwise they will risk being attacked in the 2014 elections for voting against tax cuts for the middle class simply to protect tax breaks for people like Donald Trump. / The president has been clear he will veto any bill that extends the Bush Tax cuts for the wealthy. In the end GOP lawmakers will have no choice but to fold. / 3). Republicans are afraid to propose specific cuts to Medicare. Don't get me wrong, Republicans want to destroy Medicare. But their proposal to do that -- the Ryan plan to eliminate Medicare and convert it to a voucher program -- was soundly discredited in the election. / The GOP understands the power and popularity of Medicare. Without any shame, it ran ad after ad in 2010 and 2012 accusing Obama and Democrats in Congress of "cutting" Medicare by $716 billion as part of ObamaCare. They were, of course, perfectly willing to ignore that benefits actually improved and that these "cuts" were really reductions of insurance company subsidies for the so-called "Medicare-Advantage" program and other forms of inefficiency and waste. / But the point is that the GOP understands that Medicare is very popular and the everyday voters don't want to see it cut to fix the deficit. They understand its electoral power. / That's why yesterday, when Obama administration representatives met with Republicans to present Obama's bargaining position, the Republicans refused to say what additional cuts they wanted in Medicare as the price for tax increases. They demanded that the administration itself detail cuts they might be willing to accept. They want to be able to claim that they supported cuts in Medicare proposed by the Democrats. / Well that isn't going to happen. Democrats have no interest in falling into that trap -- or negotiating with themselves -- even if they were willing to inflict economic pain on ordinary Americans to fix a deficit problem that ordinary people didn't cause in the first place. / The Republican's best hope for political cover when it comes to Medicare was some kind of bi-partisan panel or "grand bargain" negotiation. But by forcing the GOP to name its own price -- to put its cards on the table in public -- Obama has forced them to accept full political responsibility for cutting Medicare. That is a big problem for them. / And let's be clear, the GOP understands that it is impossible for them to run a national mobilization to demand cuts in Medicare. / 4). Obama has political momentum and public support. Obama and the Democrats just won major victories at the polls. Most Americans favor closing the deficit by raising taxes on the rich. Most Americans opposed closing the deficit by cutting Medicare and Medicaid. / And Obama plans to press this advantage by mobilizing the massive organization he created during the campaign. His allies have organized events all over America starting this weekend to demand action from GOP Members of Congress -- rallying its forces around TheAction.org. / The Labor movement has joined the fight with issue ads, press events and thousands of phone calls to Congress. / Progressive organizations like MoveOn and Americans United for Change have swung into action. / Capitalizing on the momentum from his campaign victory, the President is poised to barnstorm around the country to mobilize support his demand that the taxes of ordinary Americans should not be held hostage to tax breaks for the rich. / 5) The GOP base, on the other hand, is divided and dispirited. The Romney campaign and Republican operatives had -- against all evidence -- convinced them that they could and would win the fall elections. They were wrong. The long knives are out in the Republican Party. / Worse, the organizing principle uniting the Tea Party -- ousting Obama -- is gone. Many of the Tea Party faithful are unlikely to get too worked up about defending tax breaks for Donald Trump and Paris Hilton. / Even in the election campaign, it's hard to argue that Republicans had a real unifying leader they could believe in and follow. Romney will not be remembered as in inspiring figure. But now they have no one. Does anyone expect to see John Boehner barnstorming the country? / A fundamental principle of warfare is that when you have them on the run, that's the time to chase them. / Both the timing of the Lame Duck battle, and Obama's willingness to press his advantage, have denied the Republicans the opportunity to regroup after their devastating election defeat. They are leaderless and disorganized. It's hard to press a counter attack when you are in full retreat. / If the president and Democrats continue to press their advantage, history will remember the battle of the "Lame Duck Fiscal Cliff" as a rout.

**Obama’s political capital is all in on the fiscal deal.**
ANDREW **LEVINE**, **11-21**-2012, Senior Scholar at the Institute for Policy Studies, Professor (philosophy) at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and a Research Professor (philosophy) at the University of Maryland-College Park, “Obama and the Obedient Democrats,” Counterpunch, http://www.counterpunch.org/2012/11/21/political-capital/
After winning a second term fair and square (more or less), George W. Bush babbled on about the “political capital” he had gained. He was so vociferous about this and so full of himself that one might suspect he had just learned the expression. / The concept is more difficult to master, and its uses are especially problematic when applied to outcomes of presidential elections. Who knows how far Bush got with that? / It can be a useful concept, however. / Thus it is clear that however much political capital Bush had, he didn’t have enough to do what Wall Street and its ideologues wanted him to do. To move aggressively against our few and feeble welfare state institutions, Social Security especially, he’d have needed a lot more than he had. / Part of the problem is just that he wasn’t a Democrat. Democrats are better than Republicans for implementing the political agenda named for the villainous Ronald Reagan because, unlike Republicans, they can bring the opposition – themselves — along. / Indeed, it is or rather ought to be an axiom of our political culture: when a Republican president goes after the remnants of New Deal or Great Society institutions, Congressional Democrats resist. But when a Democrat is in the White House, Democrats in Congress go along. / Not that it is hard for them to acquiesce. At least since the Clinton days, Democrats, the vast majority, have yearned to replace the GOP as the favored party of capitalism’s grandees. This was Bill Clinton’s dream, and also his legacy. It is why Clinton was, to date, the best Reaganite president ever. / His assault on “welfare as we know it” was exemplary, and also typical. He was even poised to take on Social Security before revelations of his exploits with a certain intern exhausted what political capital he had left. Through sheer concupiscence, “that woman” did more good for her fellow Americans than Clinton’s official First Lady could dream of doing in that capacity or as a Senator or Secretary of State. / It hardly matters whether Democrats fight back against Republican presidents out of conviction or just for the sake of partisan advantage. What matters is that they do. This is why Bush’s political capital was spent before he could put it to ill use. / Even so, the system is set up in such a way that presidents are never cleaned out of political capital entirely; a hefty and always renewable load is a perquisite of the office. And so it is that Bush went on to do considerable harm in his second term, adding to the many graver harms he and the eminences behind him accomplished in the aftermath of 9/11. / Bush paid a political price for his incompetence and his many policy disasters; but he, and the people around him, got off with impunity for their actionable offenses – their violations of international law, and their trashing of Constitutional protections and immunities. / For this, they have Obama’s and Eric Holder’s determination to “look forward, not back” to thank. Along with squandering a rare historical opportunity for change, not bringing those miscreants to justice was the Obama presidency’s Original Sin. / Because his stewardship of the empire and his policies on civil liberties and the rule of law continue along the lines Bush and his most maleficent mentor, Dick Cheney, established, the Obama administration is, by now, similarly culpable. It is one of the wonders of the electoral season just concluded that hardly anyone even remarked on this incontrovertible fact. / In any case, Barack Obama is the one with political capital now and, by all accounts, he is preparing to use it to do what Bush could not. / Bush didn’t expressly target Social Security in his 2004 campaign; his administration just assumed that winning the election gave him license to take it on. Obama’s position is more complicated. / To his credit he gave fair warning. Although he didn’t advertised the fact except to select audiences, Obama did declare himself a deficit hawk. He even announced that the failed Grand Bargain of 2011 – and therefore cuts to Social Security and other cherished “entitlement” programs — would be back on the agenda in his second term. / All this was overshadowed, however, by a much more marketable pose: Obama’s proposal to restore pre-Bush marginal income tax rates on high earners. This, he insisted, is what fairness requires. / The idea seems to be that since it is time to declare the moral equivalent of war on “the deficit” – never mind why –everybody, even those who have been making out like bandits, should chip in; everybody should pay their fair share. / What would this involve? And why would anyone think that resurrecting Clinton era tax rates for high earners would do the trick? These are questions Obama and Congressional Democrats never raise, and not just because any effort to answer them would expose their fraudulence. / They don’t raise these questions because they realize that getting serious about fairness would put their plans to win over corporate hearts and minds in jeopardy. It would put the entire system in question, not just minor facets of the tax code. / Everyone understands this, at some level; it is perfectly obvious. In addition, what fairness requires is and long has been Topic A in academic disciplines that address normative social, political and economic concerns. Much has been learned about fairness, and related notions of justice, in consequence of the attention lavished on the concept. / Were Obama serious about fairness, he might have drawn on this body of theory. He is certainly aware of it; it is hardly news in the educational institutions he frequented. But then neither are due process or habeas corpus protections, and everyone knows what Obama has made of them. / Still, some of what has been learned has “trickled down” into Democratic Party ranks. Would that the pillars of the party would take some of it on board. Instead, they know just enough to understand that, as class warriors (on the wrong side), they don’t want to go there. / Thus the point of talking about marginal tax rates was never really to make society more fair or just or even to make the super-rich abide by some vague notion of fair play; it was to appeal to the rising class-consciousness of the ninety-nine percent. By talking about taxing the rich, Obama was playing the “populist card.” / It would have been difficult in 2012 for a Democratic politician not at least to gesture in that direction. The remarkable thing is how meek Obama’s gesture was. / And how shamelessly “bipartisan.” Obama’s talk about taxing the rich – a tad more than they are taxed already – was always coupled with declarations about the need to cut back on government spending; the kind that actually serves worthwhile purposes. Cutting spending on the military or on our rapidly metastasizing national security state never came up. / Predictably too, Obama never launched a robust defense of the austerity politics he wants to foist upon us. That would have been, to put it mildly, unwise. / Thanks to an opposition that all potential Obama voters feared and loathed, Obama knew that the election was his to lose, notwithstanding the fact that it mattered to a sizeable minority that his ancestry is partly African, while his opponent, for all his faults, was as white as can be. / Still, had Obama made austerity his watchword, or been explicit about his determination to diminish what remains of the progress made in the middle decades of the last century, he might nevertheless have lost. / And so he kept mum. / But just as it was clear in 2008, to anyone who paid attention, that Obama would not be the hope and change president he got others to think he would be, it was similarly clear in 2012 that, like other enablers of capitalist predations, he has austerity on his mind. / That is why the Grand Bargain will be back on the agenda soon, and why Obama will use every resource at his command to get it through. It’s how he wants to spend his political capital he picked up on November 6. / * * * / George Bush was poorly instructed; he thought political capital came in a blank check and that he could spend it as he pleased. Obama knows better. He understands that it can be used for some purposes and not others.

**Transportation investment drains pol cap**
**Freemark ‘12**
(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/)
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his State of the Union. The contributions of the Obama Administration to the investment in improved transportation alternatives have been significant, but it was clear from the President’s State of the Union address last night that 2012 will be a year of diminished expectations in the face of a general election and a tough Congressional opposition. Mr. Obama’s address, whatever its merits from a populist perspective, nonetheless failed to propose dramatic reforms to encourage new spending on transportation projects, in contrast to previous years. While the Administration has in some ways radically reformed the way Washington goes about selecting capital improvements, bringing a new emphasis on livability and underdeveloped modes like high-speed rail, there was little indication in the speech of an effort to expand such policy choices. All that we heard was a rather meek suggestion to transform a part of the money made available from the pullout from the Afghanistan and Iraq conflicts — a sort of war dividend whose size is undefined — to “do some nation-building right here at home.” If these suggestions fell flat for the pro-investment audience, they were reflective of the reality of working in the context of a deeply divided political system in which such once-universally supported policies as increased roads funding have become practically impossible to pursue. Mr. Obama pushed hard, we shouldn’t forget, for a huge, transformational transportation bill in early 2011, only to be rebuffed by intransigence in the GOP-led House of Representatives and only wavering support in the Democratic Senate. For the first term at least, the Administration’s transportation initiatives appear to have been pushed aside. Even so, it remains to be seen how the Administration will approach the development of a transportation reauthorization program. Such legislation remains on the Congressional agenda after three years of delays (the law expires on March 31st). There is so far no long-term solution to the continued inability of fuel tax revenues to cover the growing national need for upgraded or expanded mobility infrastructure. But if it were to pass, a new multi-year transportation bill would be the most significant single piece of legislation passed by the Congress in 2012. The prospect of agreement between the two parties on this issue, however, seems far-fetched. That is, if we are to assume that the goal is to complete a new and improved spending bill, rather than simply further extensions of the existing legislation. The House could consider this month a bill that would fund new highways and transit for several more years by expanding domestic production of heavily carbon-emitting fossil fuels, a terrible plan that would produce few new revenues and encourage more ecological destruction. Members of the Senate, meanwhile, have for months been claiming they were “looking” for the missing $12 or 13 billion to complete its new transportation package but have so far come up with bupkis. The near-term thus likely consists of either continued extensions of the current law or a bipartisan bargain that fails to do much more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

**Presidential leadership is key to a compromise – the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East**
**Huthinson**, US Senator, **9-21**-12
(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, lexis, ldg)
Despite warnings of the dire consequences, America is teetering at the edge of a fiscal cliff, with January 1st, 2013 as the tipping point. On that date, unless Congress and the White House can reach agreement on how to cut the federal deficit, all taxpayers will be hit with higher taxes and deep cuts - called "sequestration" - will occur in almost all government spending, disrupting our already weak economy and putting our national security at risk. According to the House Armed Services Committee, if sequestration goes into effect, it would put us on course for more than $1 trillion in defense cuts over the next 10 years. What would that mean? A huge hit to our military personnel and their families; devastating cuts in funding for critical military equipment and supplies for our soldiers; and a potentially catastrophic blow to our national defense and security capabilities in a time of increasing violence and danger. All Americans feel a debt of gratitude to our men and women who serve in uniform. But Texas in particular has a culture that not only reveres the commitment and sacrifice they make to protect our freedom, we send a disproportionate number of our sons and daughters to serve. The burden is not borne solely by those who continue to answer the call of duty, but by their families as well, as they endure separation and the anxiety of a loved one going off to war. These Americans have made tremendous sacrifices. They deserve better than to face threats to their financial security and increased risks to their loved ones in uniform, purely for political gamesmanship. Sequestration would also place an additional burden on our economy. In the industries that support national defense, as many as 1 million skilled workers could be laid off. With 43 straight months of unemployment above 8 percent, it is beyond comprehension to add a virtual army to the 23 million Americans who are already out of work or under-employed. Government and private economic forecasters warn that sequestration will push the country back into recession next year. The recent murder of our Ambassador to Libya and members of his staff, attacks on US embassies and consulates and continued riots across the Middle East and North Africa are stark reminders that great portions of the world remain volatile and hostile to the US. We have the mantle of responsibility that being the world's lone super-power brings. In the absence of U.S. military leadership, upheaval in the Middle East would be worse. As any student of history can attest, instability does not confine itself to national borders. Strife that starts in one country can spread like wildfire across a region. Sequestration's cuts would reduce an additional 100,000 airmen, Marines, sailors and soldiers. That would leave us with the smallest ground force since 1940, the smallest naval fleet since 1915 and the smallest tactical fighter force in the Air Force's history. With the destabilization in the Middle East and other areas tenuous, we would be left with a crippled military, a diminished stature internationally and a loss of technological research, development and advantage - just as actors across the globe are increasing their capabilities. Sequestration can still be avoided. But that will require leadership from the President that has thus far been missing. Congress and the White House must reach a long-term agreement to reduce $1 trillion annual budget deficits, without the harsh tax increases that could stall economic growth and punish working families.

**Middle East war goes nuclear – and it causes bioweapons use**
**Russell**, Naval Postgraduate School National Security professor, 20**09**
(James, "Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Nuclear War and Escalation in the Middle East", http://www.nps.edu/academics/sigs/ccc/people/biolinks/russell/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf, ldg)
Strategic stability in the region is thus undermined by various factors: (1) asymmetric interests in the bargaining framework that can introduce unpredictable behavior from actors; (2) the presence of non-state actors that introduce unpredictability into relationships between the antagonists; (3) incompatible assumptions about the structure of the deterrent relationship that makes the bargaining framework strategically unstable; (4) perceptions by Israel and the United States that its window of opportunity for military action is closing, which could prompt a preventive attack; (5) the prospect that Iran’s response to pre-emptive attacks could involve unconventional weapons, which could prompt escalation by Israel and/or the United States; (6) the lack of a communications framework to build trust and cooperation among framework participants. These systemic weaknesses in the coercive bargaining framework all suggest that escalation by any the parties could happen either on purpose or as a result of miscalculation or the pressures of wartime circumstance. Given these factors, it is disturbingly easy to imagine scenarios under which a conflict could quickly escalate in which the regional antagonists would consider the use of chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons. It would be a mistake to believe the nuclear taboo can somehow magically keep nuclear weapons from being used in the context of an unstable strategic framework. Systemic asymmetries between actors in fact suggest a certain increase in the probability of war – a war in which escalation could happen quickly and from a variety of participants. Once such a war starts, events would likely develop a momentum all their own and decision-making would consequently be shaped in unpredictable ways. The international community must take this possibility seriously, and muster every tool at its disposal to prevent such an outcome, which would be an unprecedented disaster for the peoples of the region, with substantial risk for the entire world.

====2nc nanotech impact==== 

**Sequester kills EPA funding – that turns disease – independently it’s key to prevent deadly nanotech**
Russell **McLendon**, November 15th, 2012, **11/15** (contributor, Mother Nature Network, “The Fiscal Cliff and the Environment,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/eco-nomics/2012/11/15/the-fiscal-cliff-and-the-environment/ >:)
The sequester would also mean cuts for the Environmental Protection Agency, potentially disrupting research on subjects such as asthma, autism, birth defects and cancer. The EPA studies environmental and public health, monitors air and water quality, enforces laws like the Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act, and analyzes the safety of various chemicals, products and industrial processes, from plastics and pesticides to fracking and mountaintop removal. EPA research is especially critical now, the NRDC argues, due to suspected risks from emerging and evolving technologies. The group cites nanotechnology as an example, noting that its side effects would be largely ignored if not for the EPA: “[I]ndustry has no requirement or incentives to provide or carry out research on the possible health and environmental impacts of most these new nanochemicals, including potential effects on reproduction, brain development and chronic diseases such as cancer. EPA will be unable to fill in the gaps with these proposed cuts.”

**Nanotech is the only existential risk**
Michael **Anissimov**, a science/technology writer and consultant, “Existential Risks: Serious Business,” August 2nd, 20**07**
This does seem true, and admonitions about global warming may be partially to blame, as well as terrorist fearmongering (some of which may also, in fact, be well-founded). Anthropogenic global warming is a reality, yes, but I don’t think it’s an existential risk, especially not in the next few decades. Bombardment with warnings on anthropogenic climate change, as well as terrorist attacks, is desensitizing the populace to warnings of existential risk. I’m not saying such warnings are a bad thing, just pointing out the fact that they’re desensitizing us. The fact that the most severe risks have to do with technologies just barely beginning to roll off the assembly lines — advanced AI and robotics, and synthetic biology — doesn’t help matters either. But, as always, you, the reader, can refuse to be a part of the problem. You can take existential risk seriously, and refuse to write off those who discuss these dangers, like Martin Rees and Stephen Hawking, as “Doomsayers”. For most of the past 10,000 years, catastrophic technological risk has been impossible. Even global thermonuclear war would be more likely to kill off 10% or 20% of the population rather than 99% or 100%. And if you care about the long-term future of humankind as a whole, killing a billion and killing everyone makes a hell of a lot of difference.

====1nc blake uq==== 

**Deal is coming now – both sides finally serious.**
DAMIAN **PALETTA and** CAROL E. **LEE**, **12-10-**2012, “Obama-GOP Cliff Talks Take Positive Turn,” Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323339704578171653501931248.html
Budget negotiations between the White House and Republican House Speaker John Boehner have progressed steadily in recent days, people close to the process said, breathing life into talks that appeared to have stalled. / Both sides still face sizable differences before any agreement might be reached by the end of the year, and talks could well falter again over such controversial issues as taxes and Medicare before any deal is reached. / The people familiar with the matter say talks have taken a marked shift in recent days as staff and leaders have consulted, becoming more "serious." Both sides have agreed to keep details private, according to the people, who declined to detail where new ground was being broken. / For several weeks, the White House and Republican leaders have sparred over how to deal with expiring tax breaks and mandatory spending cuts set to begin in January. The White House and Republicans have proposed replacing these changes, known as the "fiscal cliff," with other policies, but have remained divided on how best to do that. Republicans want more spending cuts than Democrats will accept, and Democrats have proposed more tax increases than Republicans will accept. / In past weeks, posturing focused mainly on what changes should be made to tax policy. Last week, leaders debated how to handle the U.S. borrowing limit. / Mr. Boehner visited the White House Sunday, four days after speaking with Mr. Obama on the phone. Mr. Obama also met with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D., Calif.) on Friday, the same day he spoke with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D., Nev.). Mr. Obama and Mr. Reid also spoke on Monday. / Perhaps the most encouraging sign of progress to veterans of congressional negotiations is the fact that both sides of the talks maintained a strict public moratorium on commenting on the talks. One Republican said that in Congress, as in union negotiations, the most progress is made at the bargaining table when the parties are not speaking at the microphones. / Michael Steel, a Boehner spokesman, said in a written statement Monday: "Discussions with the White House are taking place, but we have no detail to share about the substance of those conversations. The Republican offer made last week remains the Republican offer, and we continue to wait for the president to identify the spending cuts he's willing to make as part of the 'balanced' approach he promised the American people." / Traveling with the president, White House spokesman Jay Carney declined to characterize the Obama-Boehner meeting or its impact on the state of negotiations, but he remained upbeat about the prospects for a deal. / "The president does believe that we can reach an agreement," Mr. Carney told reporters en route to Detroit, where Mr. Obama delivered an afternoon speech. "Our interest is in seeing if we can reach an agreement and not trying to negotiate an agreement through the media."

===wind ptc=== 
====1nc wind ptc==== 

**Battle over wind tax credit coming this month – Obama will push, and passage is likely but not guaranteed**
Elias **Hinckley**, November 12th, 2012 **11/12** (“Obama Reelection: A Future for Wind Power?” http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/2012/1112/Obama-reelection-a-future-for-wind-power >:)
Much time was spent in energy circles discussion leading up to the election on how the outcome would affect the future of wind power in the U.S. The general consensus was that an Obama reelection would lead to an extension of the Production Tax Credit (PTC), and with that the rescue of the wind industry in the U.S. Current turbine orders for U.S. delivery in 2013 sit near (if not at) zero, as the lack of the support from the PTC makes it extremely difficult to produce wind power at a cost low enough to compete with natural gas derived electricity due to continued weakness in natural gas prices. Related stories Obama slams Romney opposition to wind power tax credit Hurricane Sandy: How long will the recovery take? (+video) Ford C-Max Energi: cheapest plug-in hybrid yet (after rebate) Ads by Google Renewable Energy Systems Mix diverse energy sources, save money, and be greener. Start now! siemens.com/energy/services Subscribe Today to the Monitor Click Here for your FREE 30 DAYS of The Christian Science Monitor Weekly Digital Edition It's premature to proclaim the industry saved by Obama's re-election. RECOMMENDED: Top 5 nations using renewables It's not clear when or even if, an extension will be passed. A push during the November session of Congress is likely, and a PTC extension could easily slot in as part of a broad set of tax extenders (research and development credits, new market tax credits and several other broadly supported tax incentives are all expired or expiring as well). While this is a reasonably good possibility, as action on tax extenders is likely, and there is some bi-partisan support for the wind credit, it is far from certain. The impending cliff will cloud discussions of all fiscal legislation and passage of clean energy support by the House will be a significant challenge. I would start the handicapping today at a slightly better than even chance (call it 60% likelihood) for an extension this calendar year. The current extension being pushed by the American Wind Energy Association would act as little more than a band aid. It is a one-year extension (this would allow the credit to apply to any projects for which construction started in 2013). Certainly if passed this would lead to a big push of projects getting underway by late next year - I am aware of more than a dozen (and expect the total number is several dozen) good projects that are ready to go forward in 2013 if the PTC is renewed. The challenge the industry faces is that at current pricing wind power generally doesn't compete with natural gas generated power until gas prices rise to roughly $6/mmbtu. That's significantly higher than current prices and most forecasts don't have gas prices breaking the $6 threshold for several years. So a one-year extension would provide a little quick relief, and then the industry would be right back in the same position.

**Obama push is key to passage**
Christopher **Martin**, November 7th, 2012, **11/7** (Bloomberg News, “Obama Win Raises Odds of Extending Tax Credit for Wind,” http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-11-07/obama-win-raises-odds-of-extending-tax-credit-for-wind >:)
President Barack Obama’s re-election will probably be followed by Congress extending a renewable- energy tax credit, according to the American Wind Energy Association. Congress will likely renew the Production Tax Credit before it expires at the end of the year, said Denise Bode, chief executive officer of the Washington-based industry group. Obama’s support for renewable energy and the U.S. wind industry is a critical component of the effort to renew the credit that pays 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour for power produced by wind and other renewable sources, Bode said. The Republican presidential challenger Mitt Romney said he opposes subsidies for renewable energy.

**US wind power development is key to reduce greenhouse gas emissions**
**AWEA**, 20**08** (American Wind Energy Association, A force for wind development and voice for wind manufacturers in the United States, Citing the DOE, “Wind Power and Climate Change,” http://www.awea.org/_cs_upload/learnabout/publications/4136_1.pdf ;)
Wind Power: Electricity Without Emissions There is no need to wait for a new climate solution. Wind power is one of only a few near-term options to reduce emissions. In a May 2008 study, the U.S. Department of Energy concluded that “Wind energy…can be widely deployed across the United States and around the world to begin reducing greenhouse gas emissions now.” Wind energy is already clearing the air " protecting the planet: Projects installed through 2008 will generate approximately 73 million MWh in 2009, displacing over 44 million tons of CO2. Wind energy offers time to allow for the development and commercialization of emerging clean technologies, as well as construction of other clean power options with longer lead times. How Wind Helps Reduce Global Warming • Electricity generation is the largest industrial source of air pollution in the U.S. and demand for electricity continues to grow. • The United States produces six billion metric tons of carbon dioxide annually. By 2030, this number could reach 6.75 billion metric tons. by the electric power sector. • Wind power generates no emissions, and displaces carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that would otherwise be emitted by fossil fuel-fired electric generation. • The clean generation provided by wind 40% of CO2 emissions are generated capacity installed through 2008 will displace approximately 44 million tons of carbon dioxide annually. • One megawatt-hour (MWh) of wind energy produced reduces CO2 emissions by roughly 1,200 pounds. The average turbine installed in 2008 was 1.67 megawatts (MW) in size. A single 1.67-MW turbine would produce over 5,000 MWh of electricity per year and reduce CO2 emissions by over 3,000 tons. How Much Can Wind Help Fight Global Warming? Looking at a scenario of 20% wind energy by 2030, the Department of Energy recently reported wind energy could avoid 825 million tons of CO2 annually by 2030, cutting expected electric sector emissions by 20-25%. This is equivalent to taking 140 million vehicles off the road. The Long-Term Climate Benefits of Significant Wind Power In May 2008, the U.S. Department of Energy released a study1 of the feasibility of generating 20% of U.S. electricity needs from wind power by 2030. DOE determined that achieving this level of wind generation is feasible without any technological breakthroughs and would have significant environmental benefits: • The cumulative effect of achieving 20% wind energy by 2030 would be reducing CO2 emissions by 7,600 million metric tons, and through 2050, reducing emissions by an additional 7,400 million metric tons, • Using wind to generate 20% of U.S. electricity will almost single-handedly keep electric sector emissions from increasing despite dramatically increased demand.

**Impact – the Earth will TICKEL us to death**
**Tickell, 8**
(Oliver, Environmental Researcher, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange) [Quals Added]
We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson [PhD in Chemistry, Award for Scientific Freedom and Responsibility from the American Association for the Advacement of Science] told the Guardian last week. At first sight this looks like wise counsel from the climate science adviser to Defra. But the idea that we could adapt to a 4C rise is absurd and dangerous. Global warming on this scale would be a catastrophe that would mean, in the immortal words that Chief Seattle probably never spoke, "the end of living and the beginning of survival" for humankind. Or perhaps the beginning of our extinction. The collapse of the polar ice caps would become inevitable, bringing long-term sea level rises of 70-80 metres. All the world's coastal plains would be lost, complete with ports, cities, transport and industrial infrastructure, and much of the world's most productive farmland. The world's geography would be transformed much as it was at the end of the last ice age, when sea levels rose by about 120 metres to create the Channel, the North Sea and Cardigan Bay out of dry land. Weather would become extreme and unpredictable, with more frequent and severe droughts, floods and hurricanes. The Earth's carrying capacity would be hugely reduced. Billions would undoubtedly die. Watson's call was supported by the government's former chief scientific adviser, Sir David King [Director of the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford], who warned that "if we get to a four-degree rise it is quite possible that we would begin to see a runaway increase". This is a remarkable understatement. The climate system is already experiencing significant feedbacks, notably the summer melting of the Arctic sea ice. The more the ice melts, the more sunshine is absorbed by the sea, and the more the Arctic warms. And as the Arctic warms, the release of billions of tonnes of methane – a greenhouse gas 70 times stronger than carbon dioxide over 20 years – captured under melting permafrost is already under way. To see how far this process could go, look 55.5m years to the Palaeocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum, when a global temperature increase of 6C coincided with the release of about 5,000 gigatonnes of carbon into the atmosphere, both as CO2 and as methane from bogs and seabed sediments. Lush subtropical forests grew in polar regions, and sea levels rose to 100m higher than today. It appears that an initial warming pulse triggered other warming processes. Many scientists warn that this historical event may be analogous to the present: the warming caused by human emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth.

====1nc guam link==== 

**Increasing funding for Guam costs pol cap – Congressional opposition**
**Ennis ’11** (Peter, Pacific Forum CSIS, writes and publishes Dispatch Japan and the private newsletter The Bottom Line, covering US national and foreign policies of importance to US-Japan relations, 5-25-11, “Pressure Builds for US Shift on Okinawa,” http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/ISN-Insights/Detail/?lng=en&id=129533&contextid734=129533&contextid735=129531&tabid=129531129533, YX)
Several factors have converged to give the issue new urgency. Opposition remains strong on Okinawa to construction of a new facility in the Henoko Bay area, to replace US Marine Air Station Futenma, which has been slated for closure since 1995. There is no momentum in Japan to move forward with the project, a situation made more stark by the Great Eastern Earthquake of March 11. Tokyo is intensely focused on reconstruction efforts; neither the financial nor political capital is available to push the Henoko project through. Meanwhile, construction delays and cost overruns continue to bedevil a critical, related portion of the plan: the relocation of over 8,000 Marines and 9,000 family members from Okinawa to Guam. In Washington, an increasingly debt-weary Congress is asking whether it is worth the cost of building the new Henoko facility and the new Marine housing and related facilities on Guam, when cheaper force configurations more conducive to strategic needs in Asia might be found. Diplomats are under stress to find some answers because of plans for a “2+2” meeting of defense and foreign ministers from the two countries, to be followed by a summit meeting between President Barack Obama and Prime Minister Kan Naoto. With leaders in Japan tied down with reconstruction efforts, no schedule has yet been set for either meeting, though staging both by the end of June has been discussed.

===immigration reform=== 
====1nc immigration==== 

Obama can get immigration reform but he must keep political capital focused on it.
Michael Sean Winters, 1-3-2013, “2013: The Democrats,” National Catholic Reporter, http://ncronline.org/blogs/distinctly-catholic/2013-democrats

President Barack Obama is no Franklin Roosevelt - indeed, it is ironic that in our own time when we have sophisticated polling, our political leaders seem to lack Roosevelt's ability to measure and shape public opinion. But President Obama was rightly chosen Time magazine’s “Person of the Year” and if he were a Catholic, I suspect he would have been NCR’s choice also. The President overcame a sluggish economy, a Congress determined to frustrate any and all of his initiatives, a deeply divided country, and won a significant re-election victory. His margin in the electoral college, 332 to 206, was much larger than George W. Bush’s 286 electoral votes in his successful re-election bid in 2004, and Obama’s margin in the popular vote, 50.96% to 47.28% for Mr. Romney, was also larger than Bush’s margin in 2004. And, Mr. Bush did not face unemployment hovering near 8 percent. Already, the President seems to have understood how his victory has strengthened his hand: In the negotiations over the fiscal cliff he got most of what he wanted and did not have to support much that he disliked. / Democrats have secured a popular vote victory in five of the last six elections, so there is something going on within the electorate that transcends Mr. Obama’s personal political skills, but that does not take away from Mr. Obama’s mastery of the political landscape in his time. Already, he has achieved something Democrats have sought unsuccessfully for decades, near universal health insurance, he has ended U.S. involvement in one war and is on schedule to end our involvement in a second, and his much maligned stimulus bill kept the economy from tanking in early 2009. / Mr. Obama, however, made one enormous mistake in his first term and that one mistake may continue to frustrate his ambitions in his second term: He did not ramp up his get-out-the-vote machine in 2010, and the GOP took control of the U.S. House of Representatives and swept to power in dozens of statehouses. To have punted in an off-year election when re-districting was about to begin was a very big mistake. How big? More voters cast ballots for Democratic candidates for Congress two months ago than they did for Republicans, but because of GOP control of the re-districting process, and because the President’s campaign emphasized certain hot-button cultural issues that do not play well in key swing districts, the Democrats could not regain control of the lower chamber of Congress. / In short, the next four years are not going to be easy for President Obama and the Democrats. The fact that the government remains divided is part of the problem. The other part has to do with Obama’s style, what David Brooks touched on when he said last Sunday, “Sometimes he governs like a visitor from a morally superior civilization.” It is not clear that the President has a knack for channeling public opinion, nor for rousing it, and in the coming years, he will need to improve. He does not need to be Roosevelt, but he needs to make his case repeatedly on issues he wants Congress to address and he must choose his issues with Rooseveltian care. Like most NCR readers and writers, I am appalled that our gun laws are so lax and believe, on strict originalist principles, that the Second Amendment guarantees only the right to bear a musket. But it is not at all clear to me that the President will be able to achieve a favorable political result on that issue. On the other hand, given the drubbing the GOP took in the last election among Latinos, I think the President has a chance to move the ball on immigration reform, but he will need to explain why creating a pathway to citizenship is different from amnesty, that setting the penalties for crimes is what legislatures do, and if the Congress decides that paying a fine for entering the country illegally is sufficient, rather than deportation, that does not amount to an amnesty. / The immigration debate will give President Obama the opportunity to do something he did not do with the Affordable Care Act, put a human face on the issue. In this age of reality TV shows, when people like the Kardashians and Paris Hilton are essentially famous for being famous, the American people relate better to the human side of an issue than to any abstract argumentation of which the President is so keen. He needs not to be the professor-in-chief, he needs to introduce the American people to one person, not two or three, but one person, who epitomizes the reasons we should adopt comprehensive immigration reform. The issue needs its Ryan White. / The fiscal cliff negotiations exposed deep ideological divisions between the two parties. Once again, the President and the Democrats will need to place the issues of reforming entitlements, cutting spending, and tax reform, against the backdrop of growing income inequality in the nation. No one begrudges people success in business or in the stock market. But, throughout the economy, incomes for the very wealthy have gone up exponentially while middle class and working class wages have stagnated or fallen. Raising the minimum wage, helping workers organize and bargain collectively, expanding the social safety net so that no matter a person’s income, they have the basic necessities of life, such programs will not eliminate income inequality, but they can help keep it in check. A country with gross income inequality, and little upward social mobility, is a country that is destined for severe internal political upheaval. If the GOP is right to warn that our government’s fiscal commitments are unsustainable, then the Democrats must point out that increasing income inequality is the dominant economic and social fact of the past thirty years and that balancing the budget on the backs of the working poor is a bad way to assure the long-term health of our society. This is an argument that must be cast in terms familiar to those of us raised in the Catholic social justice tradition: the common good, justice, the universal destination of goods. / The danger for Obama and the Democrats is that they will look at the election results and conclude that the party should once again become a congeries of special interests, and govern accordingly. Such a view precludes the possibility of articulating a governing philosophy of the kind that could chart the Democrats’ future for a generation and it is far from clear the coalition of minorities, affluent suburban women, and non-religious voters will stick together in a post-Obama political landscape. The Democrats need to focus on issues of economic and political justice, and focus by articulating a moral vision for the nation. That, and that alone, will guarantee them continued success at the polls. Additionally, at a time when the Republican Party is an ideological mess, the center of the electorate is there for the taking, but they will not respond to special interest pleading. / Most second term presidencies show a greater emphasis on foreign affairs, but I wonder if that will be the case with President Obama. Of course, events can force a president’s hand. If Iran were to move ever closer to acquiring a nuclear weapon, or if China were to start saber rattling in Asia, or any one of a dozen trouble spots get more explosive, the reaction of the United States will be critical. But, Obama seems to me to be more interested in taming the debt than herding cats on the world stage and the luster he once had abroad has largely worn off. / When I inaugurated this blog several years ago, I began with a quote from Arthur Schlesinger Jr.’s “The Age of Jackson” that, to my mind, best captures the historic vocation of the Democratic Party. “American democracy has come to accept the struggle among competing groups for the control of the state as a positive virtue – indeed, as the only foundation for liberty,” Schlesinger wrote. “The business community has been ordinarily the most powerful of these groups, and liberalism in America has been ordinarily the movement on the part of the other sections of society to restrain the power of the business community.” That mission, to define and defend those important social goals that the business community does not care to pursue, that is still a mission that garners the Democrats a majority of the electorate. As the President prepares for more difficult negotiations with Republicans in Congress, he should keep that in mind and not waste political capital on issues that do not fit that primary narrative. Even the issue of immigration reform should be framed in terms of justice, not in terms of satisfying a constituency that backed him in the election. Any tinkering with entitlements must be framed in terms of justice. And, any further revisions to the tax code should be similarly framed. This is not class warfare, it is pursuing the common good. It is the path to winning seats in the 2014 midterms and forging a governing coalition for a generation. It is the path Obama should follow.

US-Mexico alliance is on the brink – immigration reform is key to relations which is necessary to solve increasing drug cartel presence.
David R. Mares and Gustavo Vega Cánovas, May 17th, 2010 (*University of California, San Diego, **El Colegio de México, “Mexico and the United States: Confronting the Twenty-First Century,” http://usmex.ucsd.edu/assets/024/11646.pdf >:)

As we come to the end of the first decade of the 21st Century, the U.S.-Mexico relationship is facing new challenges and opportunities. The new challenges have been thrown up by the dramatic reach of the economic globalization process, failed efforts to integrate the Western Hemisphere as well as the limits to NAFTA integration, and the need to incorporate new social forces as a result of the beginning of democratization in Mexico and its further development in the U.S. The issues of transnational crime (including the drug trade and terrorism) as well as the illegal flow of labor are the manifestations of an informal integration pushed by the process of globalization. These challenges cannot be ignored, and if dealt with poorly, the results will be detrimental to both. Neither country can deal effectively with these challenges unilaterally; unilateral policies may give each the patina of ‘sovereignty defended’ but that very sovereignty will be undermined as the inefficient unilateral responses sap the country’s resources and create resentments internally that obstruct necessary reforms. In this section we examine how globalization affects the two countries, and summarize how the democratization processes in both countries impacts policymaking. [the card continues – text omitted] Finally, and most difficult between Mexico and the United States, is the looming issue of undocumented Mexican workers. Within this category are two groups: those who already reside in the United States, a group whose number reached between 4.5 and 5 million in the last decade and those who will, in the future, come to the United States to work. While important distinctions can be made between the two groups (a point we discuss later) the whole issue of unauthorized immigration is highly charged. On the Mexican side, the government considers the legalization of immigrant workers a matter of human rights and social justice – and a necessary step in the economic integration of North America. In terms of economic benefits, legalization will help ensure that the Mexican economy receives a growing flow of worker remittances (now running about $20 billion a year). The legalization of millions of Mexicans working in the United States will moreover improve their economic prospects, and enable many to return to Mexico as successful entrepreneurs. On the United States side, feelings are equally strong. Some Americans flat out oppose any increase in immigration. More immediately, the attack on September 11 and the subsequent deterioration of the U.S. economy damped discussions of a “Grand Bargain” that started in the Administration and Congress in the fall of 2001. The recession and rising unemployment gave fresh impetus to groups that oppose the opening of the border to migrant workers. What does this imply for a new policy on immigration? Public debate and policy in the US are deadlocked over how to balance the objectives of ending unauthorized flows, resolving the status of undocumented residents, enhancing immigrant integration and providing for labor needs – in addition to setting desirable levels of legal immigration and the criteria for admission. On the other hand, widespread agreement exists along the border that some type of formal worker registration program is necessary. The current state of affairs forces hard working persons to face the uncertainties of a north-of-the-border “informal underground labor market,” which is at best, an inefficient arrangement. Since the benefits of illegal migration are nationally distributed, federal financial support to county and municipal agencies facing excess expenditures due to non-resident social service provision would be appropriate. One way to tackle the migration issue is to start with an expanded number of legal visas, say 300,000 persons from Mexico annually. Additional visas should be issued on a work skill basis (including unskilled workers), not on a family reunification basis (the dominant test for current visas). However – and this is where security is underlined – to obtain a temporary work permit, the Mexican applicant will have to undergo a background check designed to avert security threats. Once inside the United States, temporary permit holders would need periodically to inform the Immigration and Naturalization Service electronically of their address and place of employment. Permit holders could renew their permits as long as they were employed a certain number of months (say eight months) in each rolling twelve-month period, had no felony convictions, and reported regularly to the INS. They could apply for residency after a certain number of years (say a cumulative five years as temporary permit holders). In the meantime, they should accumulate public Social Security and Medicare rights, as well as any private health or pension benefits. Coupled with this substantial, but closely regulated, increase in temporary work permits, the United States and Mexico should embark on a joint border patrol program to reduce the flow of illegal crossings. The program should include features such as enhanced use of electronic surveillance, and ineligibility for a temporary work permit for three years after an illegal crossing, No border patrol program will eliminate illegal crossings, but a joint program, coupled with a substantial temporary work permit initiative, could reduce the flow. That leaves the very difficult question of perhaps 5 million undocumented Mexicans living and working in the United States. We do not have a magic solution. The foundation for our tentative suggestions is the proposition that nearly all these people have made permanent homes in the United States and they are not going to pick up their lives and return to Mexico. Under a set of appropriate circumstances, therefore, they should be granted residence permits with eligibility for citizenship. The appropriate circumstances we envisage have two components – a threshold relating to illegal crossings, and standards for individual applicants.

Cartels will cause Mexico to become a failed state which spills over and leads to US state collapse.
George Friedman, 5-13-2008, founder, chief intelligence officer, and CEO of Stratfor, “Mexico: On the Road to a Failed State?” Stratfor, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/mexico_road_failed_state

Spiraling Violence / Violence along the U.S.-Mexican border has been intensifying for several years, and there have been attacks in Mexico City. But last week was noteworthy not so much for the body count, but for the type of people being killed. Very senior government police officials in Mexico City were killed along with senior Sinaloa cartel operatives in Sinaloa state. In other words, the killings are extending from low-level operatives to higher-ranking ones, and the attacks are reaching into enemy territory, so to speak. Mexican government officials are being killed in Mexico City, Sinaloan operatives in Sinaloa. The conflict is becoming more intense and placing senior officials at risk. / The killings pose a strategic problem for the Mexican government. The bulk of its effective troops are deployed along the U.S. border, attempting to suppress violence and smuggling among the grunts along the border, as well as the well-known smuggling routes elsewhere in the country. The attacks in Mexico raise the question of whether forces should be shifted from these assignments to Mexico City to protect officials and break up the infrastructure of the Sinaloa and other cartels there. The government also faces the secondary task of suppressing violence between cartels. The Sinaloa cartel struck in Mexico City not only to kill troublesome officials and intimidate others, but also to pose a problem for the Mexican government by increasing areas requiring forces, thereby requiring the government to consider splitting its forces — thus reducing the government presence along the border. It was a strategically smart move by Sinaloa, but no one has accused the cartels of being stupid. / Mexico now faces a classic problem. Multiple, well-armed organized groups have emerged. They are fighting among themselves while simultaneously fighting the government. The groups are fueled by vast amounts of money earned via drug smuggling to the United States. The amount of money involved — estimated at some $40 billion a year — is sufficient to increase tension between these criminal groups and give them the resources to conduct wars against each other. It also provides them with resources to bribe and intimidate government officials. The resources they deploy in some ways are superior to the resources the government employs. / Given the amount of money they have, the organized criminal groups can be very effective in bribing government officials at all levels, from squad leaders patrolling the border to high-ranking state and federal officials. Given the resources they have, they can reach out and kill government officials at all levels as well. Government officials are human; and faced with the carrot of bribes and the stick of death, even the most incorruptible is going to be cautious in executing operations against the cartels. / Toward a Failed State? / There comes a moment when the imbalance in resources reverses the relationship between government and cartels. Government officials, seeing the futility of resistance, effectively become tools of the cartels. Since there are multiple cartels, the area of competition ceases to be solely the border towns, shifting to the corridors of power in Mexico City. Government officials begin giving their primary loyalty not to the government but to one of the cartels. The government thus becomes both an arena for competition among the cartels and an instrument used by one cartel against another. That is the prescription for what is called a “failed state” — a state that no longer can function as a state. Lebanon in the 1980s is one such example. / There are examples in American history as well. Chicago in the 1920s was overwhelmed by a similar process. Smuggling alcohol created huge pools of money on the U.S. side of the border, controlled by criminals both by definition (bootlegging was illegal) and by inclination (people who engage in one sort of illegality are prepared to be criminals, more broadly understood). The smuggling laws gave these criminals huge amounts of power, which they used to intimidate and effectively absorb the city government. Facing a choice between being killed or being enriched, city officials chose the latter. City government shifted from controlling the criminals to being an arm of criminal power. In the meantime, various criminal gangs competed with each other for power. / Chicago had a failed city government. The resources available to the Chicago gangs were limited, however, and it was not possible for them to carry out the same function in Washington. Ultimately, Washington deployed resources in Chicago and destroyed one of the main gangs. But if Al Capone had been able to carry out the same operation in Washington as he did in Chicago, the United States could have become a failed state. / It is important to point out that we are not speaking here of corruption, which exists in all governments everywhere. Instead, we are talking about a systematic breakdown of the state, in which government is not simply influenced by criminals, but becomes an instrument of criminals — either simply an arena for battling among groups or under the control of a particular group. The state no longer can carry out its primary function of imposing peace, and it becomes helpless, or itself a direct perpetrator of crime. Corruption has been seen in Washington — some triggered by organized crime, but never state failure. / The Mexican state has not yet failed. If the activities of the last week have become a pattern, however, we must begin thinking about the potential for state failure. The killing of Millan Gomez transmitted a critical message: No one is safe, no matter how high his rank or how well protected, if he works against cartel interests. The killing of El Chapo’s son transmitted the message that no one in the leading cartel is safe from competing gangs, no matter how high his rank or how well protected. / The killing of senior state police officials causes other officials to recalculate their attitudes. The state is no longer seen as a competent protector, and being a state official is seen as a liability — potentially a fatal liability — unless protection is sought from a cartel, a protection that can be very lucrative indeed for the protector. The killing of senior cartel members intensifies conflict among cartels, making it even more difficult for the government to control the situation and intensifying the movement toward failure. / It is important to remember that Mexico has a tradition of failed governments, particularly in the 19th and early 20th century. In those periods, Mexico City became an arena for struggle among army officers and regional groups straddling the line between criminal and political. The Mexican army became an instrument in this struggle and its control a prize. The one thing missing was the vast amounts of money at stake. So there is a tradition of state failure in Mexico, and there are higher stakes today than before. / The Drug Trade’s High Stakes / To benchmark the amount at stake, assume that the total amount of drug trafficking is $40 billion, a frequently used figure, but hardly an exact one by any means. In 2007, Mexico exported about $210 billion worth of goods to the United States and imported about $136 billion from the United States. If the drug trade is $40 billion dollars, it represents almost 20 percent of all exports to the United States. That in itself is huge, but what makes it more important is that while the $210 billion is divided among many businesses and individuals, the $40 billion is concentrated in the hands of a few, fairly tightly controlled cartels. Sinaloa and Gulf, currently the strongest, have vast resources at their disposal; a substantial part of the economy can be controlled through this money. This creates tremendous instability as other cartels vie for the top spot, with the state lacking the resources to control the situation and having its officials seduced and intimidated by the cartels. / We have seen failed states elsewhere. Colombia in the 1980s failed over the same issue — drug money. Lebanon failed in the 1970s and 1980s. The Democratic Republic of the Congo [DRC] was a failed state. / Mexico’s potential failure is important for three reasons. First, Mexico is a huge country, with a population of more than 100 million. Second, it has a large economy — the 14th-largest in the world. And third, it shares an extended border with the world’s only global power, one that has assumed for most of the 20th century that its domination of North America and control of its borders is a foregone conclusion. If Mexico fails, there are serious geopolitical repercussions. This is not simply a criminal matter. / The amount of money accumulated in Mexico derives from smuggling operations in the United States. Drugs go one way, money another. But all the money doesn’t have to return to Mexico or to third-party countries. If Mexico fails, the leading cartels will compete in the United States, and that competition will extend to the source of the money as well. We have already seen cartel violence in the border areas of the United States, but this risk is not limited to that. The same process that we see under way in Mexico could extend to the United States; logic dictates that it would. / The current issue is control of the source of drugs and of the supply chain that delivers drugs to retail customers in the United States. The struggle for control of the source and the supply chain also will involve a struggle for control of markets. The process of intimidation of government and police officials, as well as bribing them, can take place in market towns such as Los Angeles or Chicago, as well as production centers or transshipment points. / Cartel Incentives for U.S. Expansion / That means there are economic incentives for the cartels to extend their operations into the United States. With those incentives comes intercartel competition, and with that competition comes pressure on U.S. local, state and, ultimately, federal government and police functions. Were that to happen, the global implications obviously would be stunning. Imagine an extreme case in which the Mexican scenario is acted out in the United States. The effect on the global system economically and politically would be astounding, since U.S. failure would see the world reshaping itself in startling ways. / Failure for the United States is much harder than for Mexico, however. The United States has a gross domestic product of about $14 trillion, while Mexico’s economy is about $900 billion. The impact of the cartels’ money is vastly greater in Mexico than in the United States, where it would be dwarfed by other pools of money with a powerful interest in maintaining U.S. stability. The idea of a failed American state is therefore far-fetched. / Less far-fetched is the extension of a Mexican failure into the borderlands of the United States. Street-level violence already has crossed the border. But a deeper, more-systemic corruption — particularly on the local level — could easily extend into the United States, along with paramilitary operations between cartels and between the Mexican government and cartels. / U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates recently visited Mexico, and there are potential plans for U.S. aid in support of Mexican government operations. But if the Mexican government became paralyzed and couldn’t carry out these operations, the U.S. government would face a stark and unpleasant choice. It could attempt to protect the United States from the violence defensively by sealing off Mexico or controlling the area north of the border more effectively. Or, as it did in the early 20th century, the United States could adopt a forward defense by sending U.S. troops south of the border to fight the battle in Mexico. / There have been suggestions that the border be sealed. But Mexico is the United States’ third-largest customer, and the United States is Mexico’s largest customer. This was the case well before NAFTA, and has nothing to do with treaties and everything to do with economics and geography. Cutting that trade would have catastrophic effects on both sides of the border, and would guarantee the failure of the Mexican state. It isn’t going to happen. / The Impossibility of Sealing the Border / So long as vast quantities of goods flow across the border, the border cannot be sealed. Immigration might be limited by a wall, but the goods that cross the border do so at roads and bridges, and the sheer amount of goods crossing the border makes careful inspection impossible. The drugs will come across the border embedded in this trade as well as by other routes. So will gunmen from the cartel and anything else needed to take control of Los Angeles’ drug market. / A purely passive defense won’t work unless the economic cost of blockade is absorbed. The choices are a defensive posture to deal with the battle on American soil if it spills over, or an offensive posture to suppress the battle on the other side of the border. Bearing in mind that Mexico is not a small country and that counterinsurgency is not the United States’ strong suit, the latter is a dangerous game. But the first option isn’t likely to work either.

Collapse of the United States causes nuclear wars and extinction
Barnett 11 (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-putsu-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads)

It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of arguably the greatest structural change in the global order yet endured, with this historical moment's most amazing feature being its relative and absolute lack of mass violence. That is something to consider when Americans contemplate military intervention in Libya, because if we do take the step to prevent larger-scale killing by engaging in some killing of our own, we will not be adding to some fantastically imagined global death count stemming from the ongoing "megalomania" and "evil" of American "empire." We'll be engaging in the same sort of system-administering activity that has marked our stunningly successful stewardship of global order since World War II. Let me be more blunt: As the guardian of globalization, the U.S. military has been the greatest force for peace the world has ever known. Had America been removed from the global dynamics that governed the 20th century, the mass murder never would have ended. Indeed, it's entirely conceivable there would now be no identifiable human civilization left, once nuclear weapons entered the killing equation. But the world did not keep sliding down that path of perpetual war. Instead, America stepped up and changed everything by ushering in our now-perpetual great-power peace. We introduced the international liberal trade order known as globalization and played loyal Leviathan over its spread. What resulted was the collapse of empires, an explosion of democracy, the persistent spread of human rights, the liberation of women, the doubling of life expectancy, a roughly 10-fold increase in adjusted global GDP and a profound and persistent reduction in battle deaths from state-based conflicts. That is what American "hubris" actually delivered. Please remember that the next time some TV pundit sells you the image of "unbridled" American military power as the cause of global disorder instead of its cure. With self-deprecation bordering on self-loathing, we now imagine a post-American world that is anything but. Just watch who scatters and who steps up as the Facebook revolutions erupt across the Arab world. While we might imagine ourselves the status quo power, we remain the world's most vigorously revisionist force. As for the sheer "evil" that is our military-industrial complex, again, let's examine what the world looked like before that establishment reared its ugly head. The last great period of global structural change was the first half of the 20th century, a period that saw a death toll of about 100 million across two world wars. That comes to an average of 2 million deaths a year in a world of approximately 2 billion souls. Today, with far more comprehensive worldwide reporting, researchers report an average of less than 100,000 battle deaths annually in a world fast approaching 7 billion people. Though admittedly crude, these calculations suggest a 90 percent absolute drop and a 99 percent relative drop in deaths due to war. We are clearly headed for a world order characterized by multipolarity, something the American-birthed system was designed to both encourage and accommodate. But given how things turned out the last time we collectively faced such a fluid structure, we would do well to keep U.S. power, in all of its forms, deeply embedded in the geometry to come. To continue the historical survey, after salvaging Western Europe from its half-century of civil war, the U.S. emerged as the progenitor of a new, far more just form of globalization -- one based on actual free trade rather than colonialism. America then successfully replicated globalization further in East Asia over the second half of the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

====1nc uq lexington==== 


Obama push on immigration reform now – key to passage.
Dallas Morning News, January 2nd, 2013 (“Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge,” http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece >:)

The president’s words to NBC’s David Gregory are only that — words. What will really matter is whether he puts his muscle into the task this year. We suggest that Obama start by looking at the example of former President George W. Bush. Back in 2006 and 2007, the Republican and his administration constantly worked Capitol Hill to pass a comprehensive plan. They failed, largely because Senate Republicans balked. But the opposition didn’t stop the Bush White House from fully engaging Congress, including recalcitrant Republicans. Obama may have a similar problem with his own party. The dirty little secret in the 2006 and 2007 immigration battles was that some Democrats were content to let Senate Republicans kill the effort. Labor-friendly Democrats didn’t want a bill, either. And they may not want one this year. That reluctance is a major reason the president needs to invest in this fight. He must figure out how to bring enough Democrats along, while also reaching out to Republicans. In short, the nation doesn’t need a repeat of the process through which the 2010 health care legislation was passed. Very few Republicans bought into the president’s plan, leaving the Affordable Care Act open to partisan sniping throughout last year’s election. If the nation is going to create a saner immigration system, both parties need to support substantial parts of an answer. The new system must include a guest worker program for future immigrants and a way for illegal immigrants already living here to legalize their status over time. Some House Republicans will object to one or both of those reforms, so Speaker John Boehner must be persuasive about the need for a wholesale change. But the leadership that matters most will come from the White House. The president has staked out the right position. Now he needs to present a bill and fight this year for a comprehensive solution. Nothing but action will count. HE SAID IT … “I’ve said that fixing our broken immigration system is a top priority. I will introduce legislation in the first year [of the second term] to get that done. I think we have talked about it long enough. We know how we can fix it. We can do it in a comprehensive way that the American people support. That’s something we should get done.” President Barack Obama, in an interview on Meet the Press Sunday


====1nc ptx link lexington==== 


Transportation funding is politically difficult.
Robert J. Bowman, 1-2-2013, “Transport Funding 2: Gridlock on the Congressional Gridiron,” SupplyChainBrain, http://www.supplychainbrain.com/content/blogs/think-tank/blog/article/transport-funding-2-gridlock-on-the-congressional-gridiron-1/

Just how soon that sector gets Congress and the Administration’s full attention is another question. Lawmakers can’t deal with every aspect of the massive federal budget deficit at once. And transportation, tied as it is to the federal gas tax and the Highway Trust Fund (HTF), is a painfully complex issue that wins legislators few political points for solving. (Unless, of course, it leads to massive construction projects in their home states.) Finally, with the passage in 2012 of the two-year funding measure known as MAP-21, Congress might feel that it’s done enough in that area for the time being. “You’ve got to figure out that transportation is later on the list,” Schank [president and chief executive officer of the Eno Center for Transportation] says. / Much of the lack of progress to date can be chalked up to congressional obstructionism, but President Obama shares some of the blame as well, to the extent that he put off dealing squarely with transportation matters early in his first term. “He talked about transportation,” says Schank, “but he spent political capital on healthcare.” The stimulus of 2008 included some investment in transportation projects, but the question of raising the gas tax to pay for it all was shunted aside. (MAP-21 doesn’t address it.) / It’s a question, however, that won’t go away, despite the fact that the tax has held at 18.4 cents per gallon since 1993. And the last boost was more of a move to cut the federal budget deficit than it was a serious bid to fund infrastructure. / Things are different today. The HTF is in desperate need of saving. According to Schank, it’s time for Congress and the president to spend some political capital on reauthorizing transportation funding for its own sake. How many more bridges must collapse before the urgency of the issue becomes clear? / I’m wondering how optimistic Schank really is, however, when he calls the chances of Washington increasing a tax dedicated solely to transportation “unlikely.” As reasons for his outlook, he cites the bitterly partisan nature of politics today, particularly when it comes to taxation and entitlements. Yet he also wonders whether there isn’t another way to generate the money needed to address our nation’s infrastructure crisis.

====1nc cartels i/l lexington==== 

Mexican drug cartels on the rise now – comprehensive immigration reform key to solve.
Walter Ewing, October 4th, 2011 (Ph.D., is the Senior Researcher at the Immigration Policy Center, has authored or co-authored 20 reports and opinion pieces for the IPC and has published articles in the Georgetown Journal of Law and Public Policy, Stanford Law and Policy Review, and Immigration Law Today, before joining the IPC, he was an Immigration Policy Analyst at the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and Program Director of the National Citizenship Network at Immigration and Refugee Services of America, received his Ph.D. in Anthropology from the City University of New York (CUNY) Graduate School in 1997 and his B.A. in Sociology and Anthropology from the University of Maryland, College Park, in 1987, “DHS Needs to Target Violent Drug Cartels, Not Immigrants Trying to Reunite with Families,” http://immigrationimpact.com/2011/10/04/dhs-needs-to-target-violent-drug-cartels-not-immigrants-trying-to-reunite-with-families/ >:)

Times have changed along the U.S.-Mexico border. In just a few short years, Mexican drug cartels have taken over the people-smuggling business. Although U.S. border walls and fences have proliferated, they have done nothing to prevent the cartels from moving drugs, human beings, guns, and money back and forth across the border. The combination of heightened U.S. border enforcement and cartel violence has made crossing the border increasingly dangerous. Yet large numbers of unauthorized immigrants who were previously deported from the United States continue to risk their lives by crossing the border in order to reunite with their U.S. families. The Obama Administration’s current enforcement policies treat these family-bound migrants like hardened criminals, while failing to address the real threat to security—the cartels. This is the picture that emerges from a recent, comprehensive New York Times story about the U.S.-Mexico border. The story highlights a number of facts that are crucial for understanding U.S. border enforcement and immigration policy today: Drug cartels are the threat—not the migrants they smuggle. Unauthorized immigrants are often portrayed by anti-immigrant activists as a threat to border security, despite the fact that they are less likely to commit serious crimes or end up behind bars than the native-born. However, the true threats to security are the drug cartels that smuggle unauthorized immigrants into the United States. These are large-scale, exceedingly violent, criminal syndicates that also smuggle drugs into the country, and guns and money into Mexico. As former Arizona Attorney General Terry Goddard persuasively argues, it is the sprawling collection of cartel sub-contractors that makes illicit entry into the United States possible in this era of border walls and fences. Therefore, “until the cartels are eliminated, the border cannot be considered secure. Period.” More unauthorized immigrants are deportees trying to rejoin their U.S. families. The stereotype of the unauthorized immigrant is of the young, single male who journeys northward for a low-wage job picking crops or washing dishes. However, that sort of migration across the border has come to a virtual standstill. There are few jobs to be had in the United States, a growing number of jobs to be had in Mexico, and a dwindling number of potential migrants who want to brave the often-deadly gauntlet of cartel smuggling operations and U.S. border enforcement. As a result, a growing number of unauthorized immigrants are people who have lived in the United States for several years, been deported, and are trying to rejoin their U.S. families. U.S. immigration policy treats these family migrants the same as gang members and hardened felons. In August, the Obama Administration announced that it would target its immigration enforcement efforts on dangerous criminals rather than unauthorized workers without criminal records. Nevertheless, standing policy still treats deportees who cross the border again in order to rejoin their families the same as dangerous criminals. This policy defies common sense and runs counter to the spirit of the guidelines released in August. U.S. border enforcement policies don’t make much sense. In an era of transnational criminal cartels that deal in drugs, guns, money, and human cargo, the U.S. government is more likely to prosecute the human cargo than it is to attack the transnational cartels. At a time when federal authorities are revisiting guidelines as to who should be deported and who should not, deportees trying to reunify with U.S. families are lumped together with individuals who pose a threat to national security. A system this irrational is in dire need of a comprehensive overhaul.

====2nc universal healthcare impact==== 

Immigration reform allows for universal health care under Obamacare – this solves case because we provide universal health care that is equitable for all
Amanda Peterson Beadle, December 10th, 2012, 12/10 (reporter/dlogger at ThinkProgress.org., received her B.A. in journalism and Spanish from the University of Alabama, where she was editor-in-chief of the campus newspaper The Crimson White and graduated with honors, worked as a legislative aide in the Maryland House of Delegates, interned at the Scripps Howard Foundation Wire, the Press-Register (Mobile, Alabama), and the Ludington Daily News, “Top 10 Reasons Why The U.S. Needs Comprehensive Immigration Reform,” http://thinkprogress.org/justice/2012/12/10/1307561/top-10-reasons-why-the-us-needs-comprehensive-immigration-reform-that-includes-a-path-to-citizenship/ >:)
4. A path to citizenship would help families access health care. About a quarter of families where at least one parent is an undocumented immigrant are uninsured, but undocumented immigrants do not qualify for coverage under the Affordable Care Act, leaving them dependent on so-called safety net hospitals that will see their funding reduced as health care reforms are implemented. Without being able to apply for legal status and gain health care coverage, the health care options for undocumented immigrants and their families will shrink.

==ks== 
===whiteness=== 
====1nc whiteness==== 

**The topic of transportation focuses on the "infrastructure investment" that lavishes billions of dollars for the privileged White, on highways and roads, while ignoring the minority.**
Karyn **Rotker**, 20**07** (Attorney of Law, Poverty & Race 16.5, " Transportation: Regional Equity & Environmental Justice", http://search.proquest.com/docview/210339531 :) [green]
In August, 2007, a bridge on an interstate highway came crashing down during rush hour in Minneapolis. Commentators seized upon the disaster as a sign of the need for more government spending on infrastructure. But conversations about "infrastructure" routinely focus on building, maintaining and expanding highways, treating public transit as an afterthought at best. For decades, the federal government (and many state governments) have lavished billions upon billions of dollars on highway construction, while funding for mass transit lags far behind. The neglect of transit is discriminatory: The 2000 Census showed that nearly one in four African Americans, and large percentages of Latinos and Asians, live in households without vehicles available, compared to only 7% of non-Hispanic whites. Communities of color are far more likely than whites to depend on public transportation to get to work. Governmental disregard of transit strands low-income persons and communities of color, often in inner cities though also in rural areas, while job growth, economic development and housing migrate to wealthier, whiter suburbs. At the same time, federal mandates that require regional planning frequently limit the influence of central cities in transportation and regional development. The precise structures vary from community to community. In some cities, activists have challenged the disproportionate amount of money pumped into modes of transit used by better-off, whiter communities, while transit modes used by inner-city residents are starved. The most well-known example was the case in which Los Angeles bus riders challenged how much money was going to the rail system. In Milwaukee, a majority-minority city surrounded by a ring of overwhelmingly white suburbs, survival of the transit system is at issue. There are clear disparities in auto ownership and drivers licenses between the predominantly low-income and minority residents of Milwaukee's central city and the predominantly white residents of suburban counties. Census data confirm that Milwaukee residents, especially those living in the central city, remain far more likely to rely on public transportation than do suburban residents. Yet while transit funding declines and the existing (inadequate) bus system is subjected to frequent service cuts and fare increases, the state (with the avid support of suburban legislators) wants to spend more than $6.25 billion on highway reconstruction and widening. Meanwhile, many of the negative effects-including high levels of ozone pollution, suburban sprawl that leaves inner-city neighborhoods behind, the refusal to provide affordable housing in the suburbs, and the lack of transit connections to jobs in developing areas-hurt city residents. Judicial rollbacks in the application of civil rights laws, especially Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, increase the importance of taking on these issues politically, not just in the courts. In Milwaukee, we are using Title VI and federal Orders on Environmental Justice to advocate for substantive change-such as more equity for transit projects and more affordable housing in the suburbs-in the plans that are being developed. We worked with community groups to organize a challenge to our federally-designated Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and force creation of an Environmental Justice Task Force. We are also exploring potential litigation under civil rights and environmental laws. Our goal is to change the way in which planning and highway construction occurs-in an effort to change some of the structures that keep our community segregated.

**White supremacy is a global system of oppression that normalizes genocidal modalities of violence and domination.**
**Rodriguez ‘07** [Dylan, PhD in Ethnic Studies Program of the University of California Berkeley and Associate Proffessor of Ethnic Studies at University of California Riverside, “American Globality And the US Prison regime: State Violence And White Supremacy from Abu Ghraib to Stockton to bagong diwa”, Ateneo de Manila University, 2007, Kritika Kultura 9 (2007): 022-048]
For the theoretical purposes of this essay, white supremacy may be understood as a logic of social organization that produces regimented, institutionalized, and militarized conceptions of hierarchized “human” difference, enforced through coercions and violences that are structured by genocidal possibility (including physical extermination and curtailment of people’s collective capacities to socially, culturally, or biologically reproduce). As a historical vernacular and philosophical apparatus of domination, white supremacy is simultaneously premised on and consistently innovating universalized conceptions of the white (european and euroamerican) “human” vis-à-vis the rigorous production, penal discipline, and frequent social, political, and biological neutralization or extermination of the (non-white) sub- or non-human. to consider white supremacy as essential to American social formation (rather than a freakish or extremist deviation from it) facilitates a discussion of the modalities through which this material logic of violence overdetermines the social, political, economic, and cultural structures that compose American globality and constitute the common sense that is organic to its ordering. While the US prison industrial complex constitutes a statecraft of perpetual domestic crisis that emerges from this social logic of white supremacy, the US prison regime is becoming profoundly undomesticated in a twofold sense: the technologies of carceral racial domination have distended into localities beyond the US proper (they are extra-domestic), while the focused and mundane (though no less severe) bodily violence of the prison’s operative functions have constituted a microwarfare apparatus, accessing and penetrating captive bodies with an unprecedented depth and complexity (the regime is in this sense defined by an unhinged, undomesticated violence). In this context, the (racial) formations of punishment and death inscribed on the various surfaces of the US prison regime—from the nearby to the far away—are in fact generally unremarkable. It cannot be overemphasized that this carceral formation produces a normal and trite violence, a naturalized facet of American social intercourse across scales and geographies, forming the underside of a civil society that is historically unimaginable outside its modalities of formal exclusion and civil/ social neutralization. Yet, it is precisely as this prison regime rearranges, remobilizes, and redeploys its normalized structure of white supremacist bodily violence into geographies beyond the American everyday that it momentarily surfaces as a spectacle of public consumption and even a critical public discourse, in such moments as the photographic revelation of the uS military’s torture of prisoners at Abu Ghraib. While the “national” scope of the US prison industrial complex constitutes a profound social and political crisis of epochal scale, it also composes an institutional symbiosis that has yielded an authentic conjunctural articulation of state violence that is both organic to the domestic US carceral and capable of rearticulation, appropriation, and mobilization across global geographies. Thus, to understand the prison as a regime is to focus conceptually, theoretically, and politically on the prison as a pliable module or mobilized vessel through which the state generates particular practices of legitimated violence and bodily immobilization. “Prison regime” is a conceptual and theoretical (not a discretely “institutional”) phrase that refers to a modality through which the state organizes, rationalizes, and deploys specific technologies of violence, domination, and subjection—technologies that are otherwise reserved for deployment in sites of declared war or martial law: in this usage, “prison regime” differentiates both the scale and object of analysis from the more typical macro- scale institutional categories of “the prison,” “the prison system,” and, for that matter, “the prison industrial complex.” the conceptual scope of this term similarly exceeds the analytical scope of prison management, prison policy, and “the prison (or prisoner’s) experience,” categories that most often take textual form through discrete case studies, institutional reform initiatives, prison ethnographies, and empirical criminological surveys. Rather, the notion of a prison regime invokes a “meso” (middle, or mediating) dimension of processes, structures, and vernaculars that compose the state’s modalities of self-articulation and self-conceptualization, institutional crafting, and “rule” across the macro and micro scales. It is within this meso range of fluctuating articulations of power that the prison is inscribed as both a localization and constitutive logic of the state’s production of juridical, spatial, and militarized dominion. A genealogy of the prison regime foregrounds the essential instability—the unnaturalness—of its object of discussion, suggesting a process of historical analysis and theorization that methodologically extends beyond 1.) the particular and mystified institutionality of the discrete and narrowly bounded entity we know as the Prison; and 2.) the juridical and institutional formalities of the state’s supposed “ownership” of and orderly proctorship over the Prison as it is conventionally conceived.

**White Supremacy is the unnamed political system, the sine qua non of contemporary politics that constructs the way political discussions and engagements are made to benefit the whites, our discussion is key to create antagonism and challenge white politics in order to rupture the political structure responsible for violence.**
Charles **Mills**, 19**97**, The Racial Contract, p. 1-3
White supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it is today. You will not find this term in introductory, or even advanced, texts in political theory. A standard undergraduate philosophy course will start off with Plato and Aristotle, perhaps say something about Augustine, Aquinas, and Machiavelli, move on to Hobbes, Locke, Mill, and Marx, and then wind up with Rawls and Nozick. It will introduce you to notions of aristocracy, democracy, absolutism, liberalism, representative government, socialism, welfare capitalism, and libertarianism. But though it covers more than two thousand years of Western political thought and runs the ostensible gamut of political systems, there will be no mention of the basic political system that has shaped the world for the past several hundred years. And this omission is not accidental. Rather, it reflects the fact that standard textbooks and courses have for the most part been written and designed by whites, who take their racial privilege so much for granted that they do not even see it as political, as a form of domination. Ironically, the most important political system of recent global history—the system of domination by which white people have historically ruled over and, in certain important ways, continue to rule over nonwhite people—is not seen as a political system at all. It is just taken for granted; it is the background against which other systems, which we are to see as political, are highlighted. This book is an attempt to redirect your vision, to make you see what, in a sense, has been there all along. / Philosophy bias remained remarkably untouched by the debates over multiculturalism, canon reform, and ethnic diversity racking the academy; both demographically and conceptually, it is one of the "whitest" of the humanities. Blacks, for example, constitute only about 1 percent of philosophers in North American universities—a hundred or so people out of more than ten thousand—and there are even fewer Latino, Asian American, and Native American philosophers.1 Surely this underrepresentation itself stands in need of an explanation, and in my opinion it can be traced in part to a conceptual array and a standard repertoire of concerns whose abstractness typically elides, rather than genuinely includes, the experience of racial minorities. Since (white) women have the demographic advantage of numbers, there are of course far more female philosophers in the profession than nonwhite philosophers (though still not proportionate to women's percentage of the population), and they have made far greater progress in developing alternative conceptualizations. Those African American philosophers who do work in moral and political theory tend cither to produce general work indistinguishable from that of their white peers or to focus on local issues (affirmative action, the black "underclass") or historical figures (W. E. B. Du Bois, Alain Locke) in a way that does not aggressively engage the broader debate. / What is needed is a global theoretical framework for situating discussions of race and white racism, and thereby challenging the assumptions of white political philosophy, which would correspond to feminist theorists' articulation of the centrality of gender, patriarchy, and sexism to traditional moral and political theory. What is needed, in other words, is a recognition that racism (or, as I will argue, global white supremacy) is itself a political system, a particular power structure of formal or informal rule, socioeconomic privilege, and norms for the differential distribution of material wealth and opportunities, benefits and burdens, rights and duties. The notion of the Racial Contract is, 1 suggest, one possible way of making this connection with mainstream theory, since it uses the vocabulary and apparatus already developed for contractarianism to map this unacknowledged system. Contract talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.

====at: framework==== 

**Framework aspires to the management of blackness through seemingly neutral and objective transportation planning – it’s a Link.**
**Fonza 2010** (Annalise, PhD in Regional Planning from UMass-Amherst, “TROUBLING CITY PLANNING DISCOURSES: A WOMANIST ANALYSIS OF URBAN RENEWAL AND SOCIAL PLANNING IN SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS, 1960-1980,” Proquest dissertation) Various scholars assert that whiteness thrives as an ideological construct via the creation of a buffer class of middle stratum agents who will do what is necessary to gain and keep the socio-economic benefits or privileges that they gain from those situated at the top of the social hierarchy (Allen 1994; Allen 1997; Stokes 2001; Buck, Pem Davidson 2001). This assertion is critical to understanding how whiteness, as an epistemological framework, is reasserted or reinvented by an invisible, white homosocial or homopolitical network (Stokes 2001). In The Color of Sex: Whiteness, Heterosexuality, and the Fictions of White Supremacy, Mason Stokes describes a white homosocial network as an invisible network of white men that has the power to organize and control others, including men and women, as intermediaries to act on behalf of the network (Stokes 2001).9 In volume one of The Invention of the White Race: Racial Oppression and Social Control, Theodore W. Allen illustrates how, from the thirteenth to the nineteenth century, the British used an intermediate class strata-system to dominate and control those who lived on the Irish plantation of Ulster (Allen 1994). The intermediate class of agents acts as a buffer between the white homosocial network and the so-called lower classes of persons, who are not a part of the middle stratum of society due to a number of systemic or structural factors such as capitalism, sexism, classism, racism, etc. As long as the homosocial network is not structurally challenged, disrupted or exposed, those within the buffer class are eligible to gain the privileges or benefits that are granted by those at top of the social hierarchy. It is imperative that planning scholars become conscious of how whiteness is perpetuated by the creation of a middle stratum or middle class of intermediaries because the professional planner is often in the intermediary position where she or he must articulate the interests of someone who is part of a white homosocial network. As agents of these white homosocial or homopolitical networks, it is essential that planners realize the extent to which they and all westernized professionals can be agents of whiteness.

====at: util==== 

**2NC AT: UTIL / INFINITE VALUE FRAMEWORKS**
Charles **Mills**, 19**97**, The Racial Contract, p. 96-102 This partitioned moral concern can usefully be thought of as a kind of "Herrenvolk ethics," with the principles applicable to the white subset (the humans) mutating suitably as they cross the color line to the nonwhite subset (the less-than-humans). (Susan Opotow has done a detailed study of moralities of exclusion, in which certain "individuals or groups are perceived as outside the boundary in which moral values, rides, and considerations of fairness apply"; so this would be a racial version of such a morality.)7 One could then generate, variously, a Herrenvolk Lockeanism, where whiteness itself becomes property, nonwhites do not fully, or at all, own themselves, and nonwhite labor does not appropriate nature,8 a Herrenvolk Kantianism, where nonwhites count as subpersons of considerably less than infinite value, required to give racial deference rather than equal respect to white persons, and white sell-respect, correspondingly, is conceptually tied to this nonwhite deference,9 and a Herrenvolk utilitarianism, where nonwhites count distributively for less than one and are deemed to suffer less acutely than whites.10 The actual details of the basic values of the particular normative theory (property rights, personhood and respect, welfare) are not important, since all theories can be appropriately adjusted internally to bring about the desired outcome: what is crucial is the theorist's adherence to the Racial Contract. / Being its primary victims, nonwhites have, of course, always been aware of this peculiar schism running through the white psyche. Many years ago, in his classic novel Invisible Man, Ralph Ellison had his nameless black narrator point out that whites must have a peculiar reciprocal "construction of [their] inner eyes" which renders black Americans invisible, since they "refuse to see me." The Racial Contract includes an epistcmological contract, an epistemology of ignorance. "Recognition is a form of agreement," and by the terms of the Racial Contract, whites have agreed not to recognize blacks as equal persons. Thus the white pedestrian who bumps into the black narrator at the start is a representative figure, somebody "lost in a dream world." "But didn't he control that dream world—which, alas, is only too real!—and didn't he rule me out of it? And if he had yelled for a policeman, wouldn't I have been taken for the offending one? Yes, yes, yes!"11 Similarly, James Baldwin argues that white supremacy "forced [white] Americans into rationalizations so fantastic that they approached the pathological," generating a tortured ignorance so structured that one cannot raise certain issues with whites "because even if I should speak, no one would believe me," and paradoxically, "they would not believe me precisely because they would know that what I said was true."12 / Evasion and self-deception th us become the epistemic norm. Describing America's "national web of self-deceptions" on race, Richard Drinnon cites as an explanation Montesquieu's wry observation about African enslavement: "It is impossible for us to suppose these creatures to be men, because, allowing them to be men, a suspicion would follow that we ourselves are not Christians." The founding ideology of the white settler state required the conceptual erasure of those societies that had been there before: "For [a writer of the time) to have consistently regarded Indians as persons with a psychology of their own would have upended his world. It would have meant recognizing that 'the state of nature' really had full-fledged people in it and that both it and the cherished 'civil society' had started out as lethal figments of the European imagination."13 An Australian historian comments likewise on the existence of "something like a cult of forgetfulness practised on a national scale" with respect to Aborigines." Lewis Got don, working in the existential phenomenological tradition, draws on Sartrean notions to argue that in a world structured around race, bad faith necessarily becomes pervasive: "In bad faith, I flee a displeasing truth for a pleasing falsehood. I must convince myself that a falsehood is in fact true. . . . Under the model of bad faith, the stubborn racist has made a choice not to admit certain uncomfortable truths about his group and chooses not to challenge certain comfortable falsehoods about other people. . . . Since he has made this choice, he will resist whatever threatens it. .. . The more the racist plays the game of evasion, the more estranged he will make himself from his 'inferiors' and the more he will sink into the world that is required to maintain this evasion."15 In the ideal polity one seeks to know oneself and to know the world; here such knowledge may be dangerous. / Correspondingly, the Racial Contract also explains the actual astonishing historical record of European atrocity against nonwhites, which quantitatively and qualitatively, in numbers and horrific detail, cumulatively dwarfs all other kinds of ethnically/racially motivated massacres put together: la leyenda negra—the black legend—of Spanish colonialism, defamatory only in its invidious singling out of the Spanish, since it would later be emulated by Spain's envious competitors, the Dutch, French, and English, seeking to create legends of their own; the killing through mass murder and disease of 95 percent of the indigenous population of the Americas, with recent revisionist scholarship, as mentioned, having dramatically increased the estimates of the preconquest population, so that— at roughly 100 million victims—this would easily rank as the single greatest act of genocide in human history;16 the infamous slogans, now somewhat embarrassing to a generation living under a different phase of the Contract—"Kill the nits, and you'll have no lice!" as American cavalryman John House advised when he shot a Sauk infant at the Wisconsin Rad Axe massacre,17 and "The only good injun is a dead injun"; the slow-motion Holocaust of African slavery, which is now estimated by some to have claimed thirty to sixty million lives in Africa, the Middle Passage, and the "seasoning" process, even before the degradation and destruction of slave life in the Americas;18 the casual acceptance as no crime, just the necessary clearing of the territory of pestilential "varmints" and "critters," of the random killing of stray Indians in America or Aborigines in Australia or Bushmen in South Africa; the massively punitive European colonial retaliations after native uprisings; the death toll from the direct and indirect consequences of the forced labor of the colonial economics, such as the millions (original estimates as high as ten million) who died in the Belgian Congo as a result of Leopold II's quest for rubber, though strangely it is to Congolese rather than European savagery that a "heart of darkness" is attributed;19 the appropriation of the nonwhite body, not merely metaphorically (as the black body can be said to have been consumed on the slave plantations to produce European capital), but literally, whether as utilitarian tool or as war trophy. As utilitarian tools, Native Americans were occasionally skinned and made into bridle reins (for example by U.S. President Andrew Jackson),20 Tasmanians were killed and used as dog meat,21 and in World War II Jewish hair was made into cushions, and (not as well known) Japanese bones were made by some Americans into letter openers. As war trophies, Indian scalps, Vietnamese ears, and Japanese ears, gold teeth, and skulls were all collected (Life magazine carried a photograph of a Japanese skull being used as a hood ornament on a U.S. military vehicle, and some soldiers sent skulls home as presents for their girlfriends).22 To these we can add the fact that because of the penal reforms advocated by Cesare Beccaria and others, torture was more or less eliminated in Europe by the end of the eighteenth century, while it continued to be routinely practiced in the colonies and on the slave plantations—whippings, castrations, dismemberments, roastings over slow fires, being smeared with sugar, buried up to the neck, and then left for the insects to devour, being filled with gunpowder and then blown up, and so on;23 the fact that in America the medieval tradition of the auto-da-fe, the public burning, survived well into the twentieth century, with thousands of spectators sometimes gathering for the festive occasion of the southern barbecue, bringing children, picnic baskets, etc., and subsequently fighting over the remains to see who could get the toes or the knucklebones before adjourning to a celebratory dance in the evening;24 the fact that the rules of war at least theoretically regulating intra-European combat were abandoned or suspended for non-Europeans, so that by papal edict the use of the crossbow was initially forbidden against Christians but permitted against Islam, the dumdum (hollow-point) bullet was originally prohibited within Europe but used in the colonial wars,25 the machine gun was brought to perfection in the late nineteenth century in subjugating Africans armed usually only with spears or a few obsolete firearms, so that in the glorious 1898 British victory over the Sudanese at Omdurman, for example, eleven thousand black warriors were killed at the cost of forty-eight British soldiers, a long-distance massacre in which no Sudanese "got closer than three hundred yards from the British positions,"26 the atomic bomb was used not once but twice against the civilian population of a yellow people at a time when military necessity could only questionably be cited (causing Justice Radhabinod Pal, in his dissenting opinion in the Tokyo War Crimes Trials, to argue that Allied leaders should have been put on trial with the Japanese).27 We can mention the six million Jews killed in the camps and ghettos of Europe and the millions of members of other "inferior" races (Romani, Slavs) killed there and by the Einsatzgruppen on the Eastern Front by the Nazi rewriting of the Racial Contract to make them too nonwhites,28 the pattern of unpunished rape, torture, and massacre in the twentieth-century colonial/neocolonial and in part racial wars of Algeria (during the course of which about one million Algerians, or one-tenth of the country's population, perished) and Vietnam, illustrated by the fact that Lieutenant William Calley was the only American convicted of war crimes in Vietnam and, for his role in directing the mass murder of five hundred women, children, and old men (or, more cautiously and qualifiedly, "Oriental human beings," as the deposition put it), was sentenced to life at hard labor but had his sentence quickly commuted by presidential intervention to "house arrest" at his Fort Renning bachelor apartment, where he remained for three years before being freed on parole, then and now doubtless a bit puzzled by the fuss, since, as he told the military psychiatrists examining him, "he did not feel as if he were killing humans but rather that they were animals with whom one could not speak or reason."29 / For these and many other horrors too numerous to list, the ideal Kantian (social contract) norm of the infinite value of all human lift thus has to be rewritten to relied the actual (Racial Contract) norm of the far greater value of white life, and the corresponding crystallization of feelings of vastly differential outrage over white and nonwhite death, white and nonwhite suffering. If looking back (or sometimes just looking across), one wants to ask "But how could they?" the answer is that it is easy once a certain social ontology has been created. Bewilderment and puzzlement show that one is taking for granted the morality of the literal social contract as a norm; once one begins from the Racial Contract, the mystery evaporates. The Racial Contract thus makes White moral psychology transparent; one is not continually being "surprised" when one examines the historical record, because this is the psychology the contract prescribes. (The theory of the Racial Contract is not cynical, because cynicism really implies theoretical breakdown, a despairing throwing up of the hands and a renunciation of the project of understanding the world and human evil for a mystified yearning for a prelapsarian man. The "Racial Contract" is simply realist—willing to look at the facts without flinching, to explain that if you start with this, then you will end up with that.)

**Predictions of potential wars in the future obscure the ongoing wars in the status quo—their impact relies on a bankrupt ontology of war.**
Chris J. **Cuomo**, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, 19**96** (“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Complete, p. 30-31) Philosophical attention to war has typically appeared in the form of justifications for entering into war, and over appropriate activities within war. The spatial metaphors used to refer to war as a separate, bounded sphere indicate assumptions that war is a realm of human activity vastly removed from normal life, or a sort of happening that is appropriately conceived apart from everyday events in peaceful times. Not surprisingly, most discussions of the political and ethical dimensions of war discuss war solely as an event--an occurrence, or collection of occurrences, having clear beginnings and endings that are typically marked by formal, institutional declarations. As happenings, wars and military activities can be seen as motivated by identifiable, if complex, intentions, and directly enacted by individual and collective decision-makers and agents of states. But many of the questions about war that are of interest to feminists---including how large-scale, state-sponsored violence affects women and members of other oppressed groups; how military violence shapes gendered, raced, and nationalistic political realities and moral imaginations; what such violence consists of and why it persists; how it is related to other oppressive and violent institutions and hegemonies--cannot be adequately pursued by focusing on events. These issues are not merely a matter of good or bad intentions and identifiable decisions. In "Gender and 'Postmodern' War," Robin Schott introduces some of the ways in which war is currently best seen not as an event but as a presence (Schott 1995). Schott argues that postmodern understandings of persons, states, and politics, as well as the high-tech nature of much contemporary warfare and the preponderance of civil and nationalist wars, render an event-based conception of war inadequate, especially insofar as gender is taken into account. In this essay, I will expand upon her argument by showing that accounts of war that only focus on events are impoverished in a number of ways, and therefore feminist consideration of the political, ethical, and ontological dimensions of war and the possibilities for resistance demand a much more complicated approach. I take Schott's characterization of war as presence as a point of departure, though I am not committed to the idea that the constancy of militarism, the fact of its omnipresence in human experience, and the paucity of an event-based account of war are exclusive to contemporary postmodern or postcolonial circumstances.1 Theory that does not investigate or even notice the omnipresence of militarism cannot represent or address the depth and specificity of the everyday effects of militarism on women, on people living in occupied territories, on members of military institutions, and on the environment. These effects are relevant to feminists in a number of ways because military practices and institutions help construct gendered and national identity, and because they justify the destruction of natural nonhuman entities and communities during peacetime. Lack of attention to these aspects of the business of making or preventing military violence in an extremely technologized world results in theory that cannot accommodate the connections among the constant presence of militarism, declared wars, and other closely related social phenomena, such as nationalistic glorifications of motherhood, media violence, and current ideological gravitations to military solutions for social problems.

====2nc economy link==== 

Their call for economic growth presumes that the US is a meritocracy – ignores the racial basis by which oppurtunities are given
Charles Mills, 1997, The Racial Contract, p. 31-40
The classic social contract, as I have detailed, is primarily moral/political in nature. But it is also economic in the background sense that the point of leaving the state of nature is in part to secure a stable environment for the industrious appropriation of the world. (After all, one famous definition of politics is that it is about who gets what and why.) Thus even in Locke's moralized state of nature, where people generally do obey natural law, he is concerned about the safety of private property, indeed proclaiming that "the great and chief end therefore, of Mens uniting into Commonwealths, and putting themselves under Government, is the Preservation of their Property."42 And in Hobbes's famously amoral and unsafe state of nature, we are told that "there is no place for Industry; because the fruit thereof is uncertain; and consequently no Culture of the Earth."43 So part of the point of bringing society into existence, with its laws and enforcers of the law, is to protect what you have accumulated. / What, then, is the nature of the economic system of the new society? The general contract does not itself prescribe a particular model or particular schedule of property rights, requiring only that the "equality" in the prepolitical state be somehow preserved. This provision may be variously interpreted as a self-interested surrender to an absolutist Hobbesian government that itself determines property rights, or a Lockean insistence that private property accumulated in the moralized state of nature be respected by the constitutionalist government. Or more radical political theorists, such as socialists and feminists, might argue that state-of-nature equality actually mandates class or gender economic egalitarianism in society. So, different political interpretations of the initial moral egalitarianism can be advanced, but the general background idea is that the equality of human beings in the state of nature is somehow (whether as equality of opportunity or as equality of outcome) supposed to carry over into the economy of the created sociopolitical order, leading to a system of voluntary human intercourse and exchange in which exploitation is precluded. / By contrast, the economic dimension of the Racial Contract is the most salient, foreground rather than background, since the Racial Contract is calculatedly aimed at economic exploitation. The whole point of establishing a moral hierarchy and juridically partitioning the polity according to race is to secure and legitimate the privileging of those individuals designated as white/persons and the exploitation of those individuals designated as nonwhite/subpersons. There are other benefits accruing from the Racial Contract—far greater political influence, cultural hegemony, the psychic payoff that comes from knowing one is a member of the Herrenvolk (what W. E. B. Du Bois once called "the wages of whiteness")44—but the bottom line is material advantage. Globally, the Racial Contract creates Europe as the continent that dominates the world; locally, within Europe and the other continents, it designates Europeans as the privileged race. / The challenge of explaining what has been called "the European miracle"—the rise of Europe to global domination—has long exercised both academic and lay opinion.45 How is it that a formerly peripheral region on the outskirts of the Asian land mass, at the far edge of the trade routes, remote from the great civilizations of Islam and the East, was able in a century or two to achieve global political and economic dominance? The explanations historically given by Europeans themselves have varied tremendously, from the straightforwardly racist and geographically determinist to the more subtly environmentalist and culturalist. But what they have all had in common, even those influenced by Marxism, is their tendency to depict this development as essentially autochthonous, their tendency to privilege some set of internal variables and correspondingly-downplay or ignore altogether the role of colonial conquest and African slavery. Europe made it on its own, it is said, because of the peculiar characteristics of Europe and Europeans. / Thus whereas no reputable historian today would espouse the frankly biologistic theories of the past, which made Europeans (in both pre- and post-Darwinian accounts) inherently the most advanced race, as contrasted with the backward/less-evolved races elsewhere, the thesis of European specialness and exceptionalism is still presupposed. It is still assumed that rationalism and science, innovativeness and inventiveness found their special home here, as against the intellectual stagnation and traditionalism of the rest of the world, so that Europe was therefore destined in advance to occupy the special position in global history it has. James Blaut calls this the theory, or "super-theory" (an umbrella covering many different versions: theological, cultural, biologistic, geographical, technological, etc.), of "Eurocentric diffusionism," according to which European progress is seen as "natural" and asymmetrically determinant of the fate of non-Europe." Similarly, Sandra Harding, in her anthology on the "racial" economy of science, cites "the assumption that Europe functions autonomously from other parts of the world; that Europe is its own origin, final end, and agent; and that Europe and people of European descent in the Americas and elsewhere owe nothing to the rest of the world."47 / Unsurprisingly, black and Third World theorists have traditionally dissented from this notion of happy divine or natural European dispensation. They have claimed, quite to the contrary, that there is a crucial causal connection between European advance and the unhappy fate of the rest of the world. One classic example of such scholarship from a half century ago was the Caribbean historian Eric Williams's Capitalism and Slavery, which argued that the profits from African slavery helped to make the industrial revolution possible, so that internalist accounts were fundamentally mistaken.48 And in recent years, with decolonization, the rise of the New Left in the United States, and the entry of more alternative voices into the academy, this challenge has deepened and broadened. There are variations in the authors' positions—for example, Walter Rodney, Samir Amin, Andre Guilder Frank, Immanuel Wallerstein9—but the basic theme is that the exploitation of the empire (the bullion from the great gold and silver mines in Mexico and Peru, the profits from plantation slavery, the fortunes made by the colonial companies, the general social and economic stimulus provided by the opening up of the "New World") was to a greater or lesser extent crucial in enabling and then consolidating the takeoff of what had previously been an economic backwater. It was far from the case that Europe was specially destined to assume economic hegemony; there were a number of centers in Asia and Africa of a comparable level of development which could potentially have evolved in the same way. But the European ascent closed off this development path for others because it forcibly inserted them into a colonial network whose exploitative relations and extractive mechanisms prevented autonomous growth. / Overall, then, colonialism "lies at the heart" of the rise of Europe.50 The economic unit of analysis needs to be Europe as a whole, since it is not always the case that the colonizing nations directly involved always benefited in the long term. Imperial Spain, for example, still feudal in character, suffered massive inflation from its bullion imports. But through trade and financial exchange, others launched on the capitalist path, such as Holland, profited. Internal national rivalries continued, of course, but this common identity based on the transcontinental exploitation of the non-European world would in many cases be politically crucial, generating a sense of Europe as a cosmopolitan entity engaged in a common enterprise, underwritten by race. As Victor Kiernan puts it, "All countries within the European orbit benefited however, as Adam Smith pointed out, from colonial contributions to a common stock of wealth, bitterly as they might wrangle over ownership of one territory or another... [T]here was a sense in which all Europeans shared in a heightened sense of power engendered by the successes of any of them, as well as in the pool of material wealth... that the colonies produced."51 / Today, correspondingly, though formal decolonization has taken place and in Africa and Asia black, brown, and yellow natives are in office, ruling independent nations, the global economy is essentially dominated by the former colonial powers, their offshoots (Euro-United States, Euro-Canada), and their international financial institutions, lending agencies, and corporations. (As previously observed, the notable exception, whose history confirms rather than challenges the rule, is Japan, which escaped colonization and, after the Meiji Restoration, successfully embarked on its own industrialization.) Thus one could say that the world is essentially dominated by white capital. Global figures on income and property ownership are, of course, broken down nationally rather than racially, but if a transnational racial disaggregation were to be done, it would reveal that whites control a percentage of the world's wealth grossly disproportionate to their numbers. Since there is no reason to think that the chasm between First and Third Worlds (which largely coincides with this racial division) is going to be bridged—vide the abject failure of various United Nations plans from the "development decade" of the 1960s onward—it seems undeniable that for years to come, the planet will be white dominated. With the collapse of communism and the defeat of Third World attempts to seek alternative paths, the West reigns supreme, as celebrated in a London Financial Times headline: "The fall of the Soviet bloc has left the IMF and G7 to rule the world and create a new imperial age."52 Economic structures have been set in place, causal processes established, whose outcome is to pump wealth from one side of the globe to another, and which will continue to work largely independently of the ill will/good will, racist/antiracist feelings of particular individuals. This globally color-coded distribution of wealth and poverty has been produced by the Racial Contract and in turn reinforces adherence to it in its signatories and beneficiaries. / Moreover, it is not merely that Europe and the former white settler states are globally dominant but that within them, where there is a significant nonwhite presence (indigenous peoples, descendants of imported slaves, voluntary nonwhite immigration), whites continue to be privileged vis-a-vis non-whites. The old structures of formal, de jure exclusion have largely been dismantled, the old explicitly biologistic ideologies largely abandoned53—the Racial Contract, as will be discussed later, is continually being rewritten—but opportunities for nonwhites, though they have expanded, remain below those for whites. The claim is not, of course, that all whites are better off than all nonwhites, but that, as a statistical generalization, the objective life chances of whites are significantly better. / As an example, consider the United States. A series of books has recently documented the decline of the integrationist hopes raised by the 1960s and the growing intransigence and hostility of whites who think they have "done enough," despite the fact that the country continues to be massively segregated, median black family incomes have begun falling by comparison to white family incomes after some earlier closing of the gap, the so-called "black underclass" has basically been written off, and reparations for slavery and post-Emancipation discrimination have never been paid, or, indeed, even seriously considered.54 Recent work on racial inequality by Melvin Oliver and Thomas Shapiro suggests that wealth is more important than income in determining the likelihood of future racial equalization, since it has a cumulative effect that is passed down through intergenerational transfer, affecting life chances and opportunities for one's children. Whereas in 1988 black households earned sixty two cents for every dollar earned by white households, the comparative differential with regard to wealth is much greater and, arguably, provides a more realistically negative picture of the prospects for closing the racial gap: "Whites possess nearly twelve times as much median net worth as blacks, or $43,800 versus $3,700. In an even starker contrast, perhaps, the average white household controls $6,999 in net financial assets while the average black household retains no NFA nest egg whatsoever." Moreover, the analytic focus on wealth rather than income exposes how illusory the much-trumpeted rise of a "black middle class" is: "Middle class blacks, for example, earn seventy cents for every dollar earned by middle-class whites but they possess only fifteen cents for every dollar of wealth held by middle-class whites." This huge disparity in white and black wealth is not remotely contingent, accidental, fortuitous; it is the direct outcome of American state policy and the collusion with it of the white citizenry. In effect, "materially, whites and blacks constitute two nations,"55 the white nation being constituted by the American Racial Contract in a relationship of structured racial exploitation with the black (and, of course, historically also the red) nation. / A collection of papers from panels organized in the 1980s by the National Economic Association, the professional organization of black economists, provides some insight into the mechanics and the magnitude of such exploitative transfers and denials of opportunity to accumulate material and human capital. It takes as its title The Wealth of Races—an ironic tribute to Adam Smith's famous book The Wealth of Nations–and analyzes the different varieties of discrimination to which blacks have been subjected: slavery, employment discrimination, wage discrimination, promotion discrimination, white monopoly power discrimination against black capital, racial price discrimination in consumer goods, housing, services, insurance, etc.56 Many of these, by their very nature, are difficult to quantify; moreover, there are costs in anguish and suffering that can never really be compensated. Nonetheless, those that do lend themselves to calculation offer some remarkable figures. (The figures are unfortunately dated; readers should multiply by a factor that takes fifteen years of inflation into account.) If one were to do a calculation of the cumulative benefits (through compound interest) from labor market discrimination over the forty-year period from 1929 to 1969 and adjust for inflation, then in 1983 dollars, the figure would be over $1.6 trillion.57 An estimate for the total of "diverted income" from slavery, 1790 to 1860, compounded and translated into 1983 dollars, would yield the sum of $2.1 trillion to $4.7 trillion.58 And if one were to try to work out the cumulative value, with compound interest, of unpaid slave labor before 1863, underpayment since 1863, and denial of opportunity to acquire land and natural resources available to white settlers, then the total amount required to compensate blacks "could take more than the entire wealth of the United States"59 / So this gives an idea of the centrality of racial exploitation to the U.S. economy and the dimensions of the payoff for its white beneficiaries from one nation's Racial Contract. But this very centrality, these very dimensions render the topic taboo, virtually undiscussed in the debates on justice of most white political theory. If there is such a backlash against affirmative action, what would the response be to the demand for the interest on the unpaid forty acres and a mule? These issues cannot be raised because they go to the heart of the real nature of the polity and its structuring by the Racial Contract. White moral theory's debates on justice in the state must therefore inevitably have a somewhat farcical air, since they ignore the central injustice on which the state rests. (No wonder a hypothetical contractarianism that evades the actual circumstances of the polity's founding is preferred!) / Both globally and within particular nations, then, white people, Europeans and their descendants, continue to benefit from the Racial Contract, which creates a world in their cultural image, political states differentially favoring their interests, an economy structured around the racial exploitation of others, and a moral psychology (not just in whites but sometimes in nonwhites also) skewed consciously or unconsciously toward privileging them, taking the status quo of differential racial entitlement as normatively legitimate, and not to be investigated further.

====2nc terrorism link==== 

Terrorist rhetoric reinforces a binary that pits the West in an endless war against the other
Kellner 7 (Douglas, Chair of Philosophy @ UCLA, Presidential Studies Quarterly. Vol. 37 (4), 2007, pg. 622+) JPG
On the day of the strikes on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, the U.S. corporate television networks brought out an array of national security state intellectuals, usually ranging from the right to the far right, to explain the horrific events of September 11. Fox News presented former UN Ambassador and Reagan administration apologist Jeane Kirkpatrick, who rolled out a simplified version of Samuel Huntington's clash of civilizations (1996), arguing that we were at war with Islam and should defend the West. (4) Kirkpatrick was the most discredited intellectual of her generation, legitimating Reagan administration alliances with unsavory fascists and terrorists as necessary to beat Soviet totalitarianism. Her propaganda line was premised on a distinction between fascism and Communist totalitarianism which argued that alliances with authoritarian or right-wing terrorist organizations or states were defensible because these regimes were open to reform efforts or historically undermined themselves and disappeared. (5) Soviet totalitarianism, by contrast, should be resolutely opposed, as a Communist regime had never collapsed or been overthrown and communism was an intractable and dangerous foe, which must be fought to the death with any means necessary. Of course, the Soviet Union collapsed in the early 1990s, along with its empire, and although Kirkpatrick was totally discredited she was awarded a professorship at Georgetown and continued to circulate her extremist views through Fox TV and other right-wing venues. On the afternoon of September 11, Ariel Sharon, leader of Israel, himself implicated in war crimes in Sabra and Shatila in Lebanon in 1982, came on global television to convey his regret, condolences, and assurance of Israel's support in the war on terrorism. Sharon called for a coalition against terrorist networks, which would mobilize the civilized world against terrorism, posing the Good versus Evil, "humanity" versus "the blood-thirsty," "the free world" against "the forces of darkness," which are trying to destroy "freedom" and our "way of life." (6) The Bush-Cheney administration would take up precisely the same tropes, with President Bush constantly evoking the "evil" of the terrorists, using the word five times in his first statement on the September 11 terror assaults. Bush also declared that the attacks were an "act of war" against the United States, presaging the era of war that was to come. (7) The Fox News network had its anchor Brit Hume ask former Reagan Secretary of State George Schultz whether military action by the United States was justified, and Schultz answered: "Absolutely.... We need to put people on notice that if they harbor terrorists, they are going to get it from us. No place to hide." He then recounted a story from boot camp when a sergeant handed him his rifle and said: "Here. This is your best friend.... And remember, never point this rifle at anybody unless you're willing to pull the trigger." (8) Newt Gingrich, former speaker of the House, noted that President Bush just described the attack as an act of war and urged Congress to move immediately toward declaring war against militant Islam. (9) Commenting later in the day, pundit Bill O'Reilly exclaimed, "I think we have to let the chains fall down and let the dogs of war," and his guest Colonel David Hunt enthused: "Bill, you've got to unleash the dogs of war." (10) Such all-out war hysteria, militarism, and extremist rhetoric was the order of the day, and throughout September 11 and its aftermath, ideological warhorses such as William Bennett came out and urged that the United States declare war on "militant Islam," asserting: "We have a moment of moral clarity right now in America.... There is good and evil in the world.... We issued a statement today at Empower America, Jack Kemp and Jeane Kirkpatrick and I, saying that Congress should declare war against militant Islam and that the United States should proceed as if in war, because it is war." (11) While Bennett and his group urged war on Iraq, Iran, Syria, Libya, and other alleged sites of militant Islam, on the Canadian Broadcasting Network, former Reagan administration Deputy Secretary of Defense and military commentator Frank Gaffney suggested that the United States needed to go after the sponsors of these states as well, such as China and Russia, to the astonishment and derision of Canadian commentators. (12) And right-wing talk radio and the Internet buzzed with talk of dropping nuclear bombs on Afghanistan, exterminating all Moslems, and whatever other fantasy popped into their overheated rhetoric. Hence, corporate television and radio in the United States allowed right-wing militarist zealots to vent and circulate the most aggressive, fanatic, and extremist views, creating a consensus around the need for immediate military action and all-out war. The television networks themselves featured logos such as "War on America," "Attack on America," "America under Attack," and circulated discourses that assumed that the United States was at war and that only a military response was appropriate. Few cooler heads appeared on any of the major television networks that repeatedly beat the war drums day after day, without even the relief of commercials for three days straight, driving the country into hysteria and making it certain that there would be a military response and war.

===bush doctrine=== 
====1nc bush doctrine==== 

**The affirmative is locked into the doctrine of preemptive warfare, marked by the response to a potential threat in the future. By assuming this invisible other obviously will be a violent threat to world order, they instill paranoia into the fabric of US foreign policy, justifying lash outs globally. This is the reason threats emerge in the first place**
**Massumi**, 20**07**; Theory and Event; 10:2; “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption”
It is certain that there will be adjustments. But it should be remembered that Bush referred to a change in "tactics," not a change in "strategy." Preemption remains the official military strategy of the United States. It can be argued that preemption is in any case far more than a specific military doctrine of a particular administration. It can be plausibly argued that preemption is an operative logic of power defining a political age in as infinitely space-filling and insiduously infiltrating a way as the logic of "deterrence" defined the Cold War era. By an "operative" logic I mean one that combines an ontology with an epistemology in such a way as to trace itself out as a self-propelling tendency that is not in the sway of any particular existing formation but sweeps across them all and where possible sweeps them up in its own dynamic. Preemption is not prevention. Although the goal of both is to neutralize threat, they fundamentally differ epistemologically and ontologically. Epistemologically, prevention assumes an ability to assess threats empirically and identify their causes. Once the causes are identified, appropriate curative methods are sought to avoid their realization. Prevention operates in an objectively knowable world in which uncertainty is a function of a lack of information, and in which events run a predictable, linear course from cause to effect. As we will see, this is very different from the epistemological premise of preemption, and entails a divergence from it on the ontological level as well. Prevention, in fact, has no ontology of its own because it assumes that what it must deal with has an objectively given existence prior to its own intervention. In practice, this means that its object is given to it predefined by other formations, in whose terms and on whose terrain it must then operate. A preventive approach to social conflict might analyze it, for example, as an effect of poverty, objectively quantifiable in terms of economic and health indexes. Each index is defined by a specialist formation (economics, medicine) in relation to a norm specific to that domain and against which goals may be set and success measured (annual income, mortality rates, life expectancy, etc.). The preventive measures will then operate as a political extension of the concerned specialist domains (economic analysis extended into politics as aid and development, medicine extended into vaccination programs, etc.). They will be regulated by the specialist logics proper to those fields. Prevention has no proper object, no operational sphere of its own, and no proprietary logic. It is derivative. It is a means toward a given end. Because of this, preventive measures are not self-sustaining. They must be applied. They must be leveraged from an outside source with outside force. They are not an organizing force in their own right. They run on borrowed power. Deterrence takes over at the end of this same process, when the means of prevention have failed. Deterrence makes use of the same epistemology prevention does, in that it assumes knowability and objective measurability. However, because it starts where prevention ends, it has no margin of error. It must know with certainty because the threat is fully formed and ready to detonate: the enemy has the bomb and the means to deliver it. The imminence of the threat means that deterrence cannot afford to subordinate itself to objects, norms, and criteria passed on to it from other domains. If it did, its ability to respond with an immediacy proportional to the imminence of the threat would be compromised. Since it would not hold the key to its own knowledge, in the urgency of the situation it would be haunted internally by the spectre of a possible incompleteness of the knowledge coming from the outside. Since its operations would be mediated by that outside domain, neither would it hold a direct key to its own actions. Since it would be responding to causes outside its specific purview, it would not be master of its own effects. The only way to have the kind of epistemological immediacy necessary for deterrence is for its process to have its own cause and to hold it fast within itself. The quickest and most direct way for a process to acquire its own cause is for it to produce one. The easiest way to do this is to take the imminence of the very threat prevention has failed to neutralize and make it the foundation of a new process. In other words, the process must take the effect it seeks to avoid (nuclear annihilation) and organize itself around it, as the cause of its very own dynamic (deterrence). It must convert an effect that has yet to eventuate into a cause: a future cause. Past causes are in any case already spoken for. They have been claimed as objects of knowledge and operational spheres by a crowded world of other already-functioning formations. Mutually assured destruction is equilibrium-seeking. It tends toward the creation of a "balance of terror." MAD is certainty squared: to the certainty that there is objectively a threat is added the certainty that it is balanced out. The second certainty is dynamic, and requires maintenance. The assurance must be maintained by continuing to producing the conditions that bring the cause so vividly into the present. You have to keep moving into the dangerous future. You have to race foward it ever faster. You have to build more weapons, faster and better, to be sure that your systems match the lethality of your opponent's, give or take a few half-lives. The process soon becomes self-driving. The logic of mutually assured destruction becomes its own motor. It becomes self-propelling. Now that you've started, you can't very well stop. What began as an epistemological condition (a certainty about what you and your opponent are capable of doing) dynamizes into an ontology or mode of being (a race for dear life). Deterrence thus qualifies as an operative logic, in that it combines its own proprietary epistemology with a unique ontology. For the process to run smoothly, of course, it still needs to mobilize other logics borrowed from other domains. It needs, for example, quantitative measures of destructive load and delivery capacity, a continual intelligence feed, and good geographical data, to mention just a few. The necessary measures are provided by other formations operating in annex domains having their own logics. But this does not compromise deterrence's status as an operative logic because it is not the measures themselves or their specialist logics that count so much as the criterion imposed upon them by the logic of deterrence itself: the quantitative balance necessary to achieve life-defining mutuality. Preemption shares many characteristics with deterrence. Like deterrence, it operates in the present on a future threat. It also does this in such a way as to make that present futurity the motor of its process. The process, however, is qualitatively different. For one thing, the epistemology is unabashedly one of uncertainty, and not due to a simple lack of knowledge. There is uncertainty because the threat has not only not yet fully formed but, according to Bush's opening definition of preemption, it has not yet even emerged. In other words, the threat is still indeterminately in potential. This is an ontological premise: the nature of threat cannot be specified. It might in some circumstances involve weapons of mass destruction, but in others it will not. It might come in the form of strange white power, or then again it might be an improvised explosive device. The enemy is also unspecifiable. It might come from without, or rise up unexpectedly from within. You might expect the enemy to be a member of a certain ethnic or religious group, an Arab or a Moslem, but you can never be sure. It might turn out be a white Briton wearing sneakers, or a Puerto Rican from the heartland of America (to mention just two well-known cases, those of John Reid and Jose Padilla). It might be an anonymous member of a cell, or the supreme leader of a "rogue" state. The lack of knowledge about the nature of the threat can never be overcome. It is part of what defines the objective conditions of the situation: threat has become proteiform and it tends to proliferate unpredictably. The situation is objectively one in which the only certainty is that threat will emerge where it is least expected. This is because what is ever-present is not a particular threat or set of threats, but the potential for still more threats to emerge without warning. The global situation is not so much threatening as threat generating: threat-o-genic. It is the world's capacity to produce new threats at any and every moment that defines this situation. We are in a world that has passed from what "the Architect" called the "known unknown" (uncertainty that can be analyzed and identified) to the "unknown unknown" (objective uncertainty). Objective uncertainty is as directly an ontological category as an epistemological one. The threat is known to have the ontological status of indeterminate potentiality. The unknown unknown is unexpungeable because its potentiality belongs to the objective conditions of life today. Consequently, no amount of effort to understand will ever bring a definitive answer. Thinking about it will only reopen the same uncomprehending question: "why do they hate us so"? This question, asked over and over again by the US media since 9-11, expresses the impossibility of basing a contemporary logic of conflict on a psychological premise. The nature and motives of the adversary strike us as purely incomprehensible. The only hypothesis left is that they are just plain "evil," capable of the worst "crimes against humanity." They are simply "inhuman." The only way to identify the enemy collectively is as an "axis of evil." That characterization does not add new knowledge. It is the moral equivalent of ignorance. Its function is to concentrate "humanity" entirely on one side in order to legitimate acts on "our" side that would be considered crimes against humanity were the enemy given the benefit of being considered human (torture, targeting civilian populations, contraventions of human rights and the laws of war). The ostensibly moral judgment of "evil" functions very pragmatically as a device for giving oneself unlimited tactical options freed from moral constraint. This is the only sense in which something like deterrence continues to function: moral judgment is used in such a way as to deter any properly moral or ethical logic from becoming operative. The operative logic will function on an entirely different plane. The situation within which the logic of preemption arises is far-from-equilibrium by nature. There is no hope for balance, so it is not even sought. The disequilibrium occurs on many levels. There is the post-humanist moral imbalance just mentioned between the human and the "inhuman." Militarily, the imbalance goes by the name of "asymmetrical warfare." This refers to the difference in order of magnitude between the adversaries' capacities for attack. The quantitative superiority of the State players in terms of the size of their armed forces, technological resources, weaponry, and funding does not necessarily give them an advantage on the ground. This is because there is another asymmetry in play that takes the form of an ontological difference. The mode of being of the "terrorist" is wed to the potential of the unspecified threat. That of the terrorist's State enemy is all-too concrete, fully actualized in a top-heavy defense structure. This gives the "terrorist" the very significant advantage of surprise. It also gives him an epistemological edge over the lumbering State formation, which is at an order of magnitude that makes it easily visible, whereas the proteiform "terrorist" is by nature imperceptible from the opposing vantage point of the State. This situation is what is commonly referred to as "imbalance of terror." In the face of the "imbalance of terror," the State adversary must transform a part of its own structure in the image of the what it fights. You cannot engage the enemy if the situation is so asymmetrical that there is no ground in common to serve as a battlefield. You have to become, at least in part, what you hate. You have to undertake a becoming-terrorist of your own. Rumsfeld's project of "transforming the military," known more broadly as the "revolution in military affairs," involved tipping the defense structure into this movement of becoming-terrorist by realigning it on smaller-scale rapid deployment and rapid response capabilities mirroring the ways of the enemy.3 Eyal Weizman has documented a similarly, remarkably lucid project of mimicking the enemy within the Isreali Defense Forces, considered (at least up until the Lebanese War of 2006) the most advanced and effective State fighting force.4 The realignment on less-specified, more potentialized capabilities must be backed up by technologically assisted means of perception: monitoring systems to detect the slightest signs of enemy action. But any detection system is still prone to error or evasion. In fact, since the enemy is indeterminate, it is certain that he remain undetectable until he makes a move. You look to the detect the movements, at as emergent a level as possible. But given the speed with which a terrorist attack can unfold, once the movement has detectably begun it might already be over. A defensive posture, even backed up with the best monitoring technology, is not enough. The military machinery must go on the offensive.5 It is not safe to wait for the enemy to make the first move. You have to move first, to make them move. You have to "flush them out." You test and prod, you move as randomly and unpredictably and ubiquitously as they do, in the hopes that you will brush close enough to provoke a response. You avoid making yourself a sitting target. You move like the enemy, in order to make the enemy move. He will be flushed out into taking some active form, and in taking active form will become detectable and thus attackable. In other words, you go on the offensive to make the enemy emerge from its state of potential and take actual shape. The exercise of your power is incitatory. It is contributes to the actual emergence of the threat. In other words, since the threat is proliferative in any case, your best option is to help make it proliferate more – that is, hopefully, more on your own terms. The most effective way to fight an unspecified threat is to actively contribute to producing it.

**Their highways advantage only further illustrates the catastrophes of preemption. Instead of utilizing industry to defend against actual threats, they claim we must continue churning out weapons because our entire society depends on that money. This is an addiction to militarism that morphs the peaceful hegemony they claim to uphold into genocidal imperialism**
Michael **Fitzgerald ‘4** teaches creative writing at Douglas Anderson School of the Arts.
[“Militarism: A Way of Life”, The Humanist, November/December 2004, p 26-31, http://www.thehumanist.org/humanist/articles/Fitzgerald.pdf]
After the Soviet Union disintegrated in 1991 things really started looking bleak for the local economy. Nationwide, nearly seven million people—approximately 6 percent of the U.S. labor force, whose jobs depended on defense spending—were suddenly faced with an uncertain future. 17 The bogeyman was gone. “I’m running out of villains,” quipped Colin Powell, then chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “I’m down to Castro and Kim Il-Sung.” 18 Luckily another credible threat would present itself in time to put the next generation of suburban kids through college.* * * The military-industrial establishment hijacked the theories of British economist John Maynard Keynes and misapplied them. In the 1930s, while Marxists pointed to the Great Depression as a sign that capitalism was going down the tubes, Keynes argued that recessions are part of a natural “business cycle” and could be managed. In his 1936 General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money he addressed the problem of the Depression. Keynes pointed out that, rather than balancing the budget every year, government deficit spending could ameliorate capitalism’s typical boom-bust cycles by keeping jobs available. Keynes’s theories became the foundation for President Roosevelt’s New Deal and the basis of economic policymaking worldwide for decades. 19 Keynes’ theories were even adopted by militarists—but with a twist: whereas Roosevelt’s work programs were designed to benefit the general population directly, military Keynesianism turned defense contractors into middlemen, administering government funds privately. It became a bonanza for defense industries, a veritable orgy at the trough. True, it does create jobs—just the wrong kind of jobs. War or the threat of war is the ultimate economic stimulus. It’s capitalism on steroids. Prolonged use creates unprecedented growth, but the upside isn’t worth the risks. The steroids metaphor is especially apt—side effects include euphoria, confusion, pathological anxiety, paranoia, hallucinations, and even violent, criminal behavior 20—and users can easily become addicted. Let’s face it: we’re addicted to the money. Somehow this doesn’t seem like what Keynes had in mind. He never suggested that government go $7 trillion in debt, mostly for the benefit of war profiteers. If the economy needs to be goosed every once in a while, shouldn’t the government support peacetime industries along the lines of education, healthcare, daycare, or mass transit? Truman was no match for the militarists in the administration he inherited from Roosevelt. Ultimately, says political science professor Michael Hogan, Truman “failed to assert his authority” over them. By going around the president and directly lobbying Congress, Secretary of the Navy James V. Forrestal (a former Wall Street investment banker) and his iron-triangle cronies successfully sandbagged Truman’s attempts to rein them in. The party line was that the war wasn’t really over yet and the evil Russians were turning on us—despite the fact that reliable intelligence estimates indicated no hostile actions from the Russians. 21 Despite the Cold War rhetoric, the economic-stimulus factor, recognized by General Electric’s Wilson and his cohorts, was never far from the surface. It was spelled out in a 1950 National Security Council document, NSC 68, drafted by Paul Nitze, head of policy planning for the State Department. Like Forrestal, Nitze too was a former investment banker at Dillon, Read, and Company. Deep in the document is a line stating that without the expansion of military spending the United States would face “a decline in economic activity of serious proportions.” 22 As they say in military parlance: there it is. Without more war another depression would be upon us. Or put another way, we must continue to inflict massive death and destruction somewhere in the world in order to avoid disruptions in retail spending at home—the whole U.S. economy depends on it. NSC 68 threatened to turn the United States into a “garrison state,” Hogan adds, “a society dominated by military institutions, a military economy, and a military mentality.” 23 In 1963 Johnson faced a similar situation to Truman’s, but he apparently didn’t bother resisting. At a December meeting with the Joint Chiefs he reportedly pleaded, “Just get me elected and then you can have your war.” 24 But he told confidants that Vietnam wasn’t worth fighting for and was “just the biggest damn mess I ever saw.” Both Truman and Johnson, facing elections, knew the vast political clout Pentagon lobbyists wielded on Capitol Hill. Johnson said privately that he feared impeachment if he pulled out of Vietnam. 25 Much has been made of the notion—particularly in Oliver Stone’s controversial 1991 film JFK—that the military-industrial cabal killed Kennedy because he was planning to pull the plug on its gravy train. 26 But it didn’t need to kill Truman or Johnson to get what it wanted: continuous war. In his farewell address, Eisenhower echoed the sentiments of another outgoing president and former army general 165 years earlier. In his farewell address, George Washington said Americans should “avoid the necessity of those overgrown military estab-lishments, which, under any form of government, are inauspicious to liberty, and which are to be regarded as particularly hostile to Republican Liberty.” 27 It’s no wonder Washington and his compatriots felt a standing army during peacetime posed a threat to democracy. The idea of having lots of professional military personnel looking for ways to justify their existence is truly scary. “A standing army in time of peace is an evil,” wrote Robert Yates, a New York judge and delegate to the federal convention, in the New York Journal in 1787. “The nations around us, sir, are already enslaved. . . . By means of their large standing armies they have lost every one of their liberties.” 28 History proves Yates correct that creating a class of people dependent on the defense payroll erodes liberties at home. Jingoism, groupthink, and even vigilantism become infectious. Mussolini and Hitler both capitalized on this reaction. William D. Hartung, director of the Arms Trade Research Center, part of the World Policy Institute, advises in his February 14, 2003, Fourth Freedom Forum article “The Hidden Costs of War” that, at the very least, jingoism undermines U.S. diplomacy: One of the greatest potential costs of relying on war and preparations for war as a centerpiece of U.S. foreign policy is the danger of distorting the U.S. role in the world from that of a vibrant democracy that is ready to defend itself and its allies when necessary, to that of a garrison state that uses force to get its way on a wide range of issues that have little to do with self-defense. 29 Or, as Dan Briody put it in his 2003 book The Iron Triangle, the result is an American juggernaut “trolling the planet in search of enemies.” 30 * * * Benito Mussolini said fascism wasn’t the correct term for his blend of corporate ownership and government muscle; “it should more properly be called ‘corporatism,’ since it is the merger of state and corporate power.” 31 The blueprint for the military industrial complex didn’t originate in fascist Italy, however. It began in England prior to World War I with the government seizing control of the country’s oil industry. Corporate socialism in the United States began with the development of radio. The Wilson administration effectively nationalized the electronics industry by sponsoring a cartel, Radio Corporation of America (RCA), privately owned by four well-connected corporations: AT&T, Westinghouse, United Fruit, and General Electric. The government was more than happy to dole out research dollars, since radio was considered too vital to national security to allow German companies to surpass us in its development. 32 This same government-corporate alliance was extended to the oil companies—also for national security reasons—since oil had long been considered a primary defense resource (you can’t sail destroyers or fly planes without fuel). 33 After World War II the national security rationale was extended to hundreds of companies in what Eisenhower called the military-industrial complex. The bottom line is the public gets to fund these projects while corporations get to keep all of the profits. 34 Some call this the New Economy. We’ve had socialized radio, socialized automobiles, socialized computers, socialized hamburgers, even socialized football—but not socialized medicine. It’s the biggest swindle of all time. Companies don’t even bother with the national-security angle anymore. They cite “job creation.” But fear is still the great lubricant of the wallet: bogeymen appear on the horizon; taxpayers throw magic money to hold them at bay. The intermediary is a defense contractor with a wheelbarrow and a shovel. Most of the time threats do the trick, but every once in a while a real war is necessary to justify the fat handouts. The Bush administration had to come up with the weapons-of mass-destruction argument because it needed a credible threat in order to attack Iraq. Liberating that country and bringing democracy to the Middle East were mere afterthoughts. The militarists will make the “War on Terror” last as long as they can. Korea, Vietnam, and the Cold War effectively extended World War II by another forty-odd years and put trillions of dollars into defense industry coffers—not to mention putting hundreds of thousands of military brats like me through college. The current crop of defense contractors is gambling that the War on Terror will last at least as long. As of 2002 there were more than seven million people dependent on the U.S. war machine for their livelihoods—certainly enough to swing an election. 35 Then there are probably at least as many people in the retail, real-estate, automobile, and service industries in military and defense regions whose paychecks indirectly depend on the influx of defense spending. War is good for their wallets

**By making preparation for war the end-goal, global war is inevitable**
**Hossein-zadeh ‘6**, Prof Econ @ Drake; The Political Economy of Militarism; 96-97
Led by the United States, military spending on a global level has risen by 18 percent since 2001. According to a U.S. congressional study, terrorism has risen by 35 percent since then. From the fact that the increase in military spending has coincided with an increase in terrorism, Brandon J. Snider concludes, "With every dollar, the U.S., which accounts for 47 percent of the spending, manufactures new terrorists, which will, in turn, lead to demands for increased defense spending.39 This positive correlation between military spending, war, and terrorism is not fortuitous. In his classic book on war and militarism, The Military-Industrial Complex, the late Sidney Lens explained this relationship in these words, "The mere availability of planes and weapons is a temptation to use them. It may be a temptation which is acceded to in a minority of instances, but it’s enough to make the preparation for war an independent factor in creating it. . .Being prepared thus becomes a pressure, a temptation, for being at war. The merry-go-round never stops."40 This is an essential dynamic of militarism. As discussed in the second chapter of this study, under precapitalist formations, all the military establishment needed to justify and maintain its apparatus and privileges was the specter of war or the environment of fear—not necessarily the actual, shooting war. Under capitalism, where production of military hardware is subject to market imperatives, actual wars are needed in order to generate "sufficient” demand for war-dependent industries and their profitability requirements. Perhaps more than anything else, it is this combination of private ownership of the means of warfare and market imperatives of profitability that drives the war today. It is also this business imperative of war that, more than any other factor, underlies the U.S. militarists' constant search for enemies, or new "threats to our national security"—communism, rogue states, axis of evil, global terrorism, militant Islam, et cetera. Furthermore, it is this market-driven force behind the war that underlies, at least partly, the Bush administration's fuzzy and shifting "reasons" for invading Iraq, and the consequent death, destruction, and turbulence in today's world. Despite its apparent complexity, reducing international acts of terrorism and fostering global peace and stability would not be very difficult in the absence of this perverse dynamics of the business of war. As Brandon J. Snider points out, nations like Britain and the U.S. don't really have to do anything to fight terrorism; they only have to stop doing things that provoke terrorist responses: keep out of the affairs of other nations."41

**Reject their vision of the world as a “predictable threat” to national security. Their utilitarian calculations devalue lives as mere pawns of geopolitics – only voting negative can create genuine peace**
**Burke**, 20**07**; Theory and Event; 10: 2; “Ontologies of War”
This essay describes firstly the ontology of the national security state (by way of the political philosophy of Thomas Hobbes, Carl Schmitt and G. W. F. Hegel) and secondly the rationalist ontology of strategy (by way of the geopolitical thought of Henry Kissinger), showing how they crystallise into a mutually reinforcing system of support and justification, especially in the thought of Clausewitz. This creates both a profound ethical and pragmatic problem. The ethical problem arises because of their militaristic force -- they embody and reinforce a norm of war -- and because they enact what Martin Heidegger calls an 'enframing' image of technology and being in which humans are merely utilitarian instruments for use, control and destruction, and force -- in the words of one famous Cold War strategist -- can be thought of as a 'power to hurt'.19 The pragmatic problem arises because force so often produces neither the linear system of effects imagined in strategic theory nor anything we could meaningfully call security, but rather turns in upon itself in a nihilistic spiral of pain and destruction. In the era of a 'war on terror' dominantly conceived in Schmittian and Clausewitzian terms,20 the arguments of Hannah Arendt (that violence collapses ends into means) and Emmanuel Levinas (that 'every war employs arms that turn against those that wield them') take on added significance. Neither, however, explored what occurs when war and being are made to coincide, other than Levinas' intriguing comment that in war persons 'play roles in which they no longer recognises themselves, making them betray not only commitments but their own substance'. 21 What I am trying to describe in this essay is a complex relation between, and interweaving of, epistemology and ontology. But it is not my view that these are distinct modes of knowledge or levels of truth, because in the social field named by security, statecraft and violence they are made to blur together, continually referring back on each other, like charges darting between electrodes. Rather they are related systems of knowledge with particular systemic roles and intensities of claim about truth, political being and political necessity. Positivistic or scientific claims to epistemological truth supply an air of predictability and reliability to policy and political action, which in turn support larger ontological claims to national being and purpose, drawing them into a common horizon of certainty that is one of the central features of past-Cartesian modernity. Here it may be useful to see ontology as a more totalising and metaphysical set of claims about truth, and epistemology as more pragmatic and instrumental; but while a distinction between epistemology (knowledge as technique) and ontology (knowledge as being) has analytical value, it tends to break down in action. The epistemology of violence I describe here (strategic science and foreign policy doctrine) claims positivistic clarity about techniques of military and geopolitical action which use force and coercion to achieve a desired end, an end that is supplied by the ontological claim to national existence, security, or order. However in practice, technique quickly passes into ontology. This it does in two ways. First, instrumental violence is married to an ontology of insecure national existence which itself admits no questioning. The nation and its identity are known and essential, prior to any conflict, and the resort to violence becomes an equally essential predicate of its perpetuation. In this way knowledge-as-strategy claims, in a positivistic fashion, to achieve a calculability of effects (power) for an ultimate purpose (securing being) that it must always assume. Second, strategy as a technique not merely becomes an instrument of state power but ontologises itself in a technological image of 'man' as a maker and user of things, including other humans, which have no essence or integrity outside their value as objects. In Heidegger's terms, technology becomes being; epistemology immediately becomes technique, immediately being. This combination could be seen in the aftermath of the 2006 Lebanon war, whose obvious strategic failure for Israelis generated fierce attacks on the army and political leadership and forced the resignation of the IDF chief of staff. Yet in its wake neither ontology was rethought. Consider how a reserve soldier, while on brigade-sized manoeuvres in the Golan Heights in early 2007, was quoted as saying: 'we are ready for the next war'. Uri Avnery quoted Israeli commentators explaining the rationale for such a war as being to 'eradicate the shame and restore to the army the "deterrent power" that was lost on the battlefields of that unfortunate war'. In 'Israeli public discourse', he remarked, 'the next war is seen as a natural phenomenon, like tomorrow's sunrise.' 22 The danger obviously raised here is that these dual ontologies of war link being, means, events and decisions into a single, unbroken chain whose very process of construction cannot be examined. As is clear in the work of Carl Schmitt, being implies action, the action that is war. This chain is also obviously at work in the U.S. neoconservative doctrine that argues, as Bush did in his 2002 West Point speech, that 'the only path to safety is the path of action', which begs the question of whether strategic practice and theory can be detached from strong ontologies of the insecure nation-state.23 This is the direction taken by much realist analysis critical of Israel and the Bush administration's 'war on terror'.24 Reframing such concerns in Foucauldian terms, we could argue that obsessive ontological commitments have led to especially disturbing 'problematizations' of truth.25 However such rationalist critiques rely on a one-sided interpretation of Clausewitz that seeks to disentangle strategic from existential reason, and to open up choice in that way. However without interrogating more deeply how they form a conceptual harmony in Clausewitz's thought -- and thus in our dominant understandings of politics and war -- tragically violent 'choices' will continue to be made. The essay concludes by pondering a normative problem that arises out of its analysis: if the divisive ontology of the national security state and the violent and instrumental vision of 'enframing' have, as Heidegger suggests, come to define being and drive 'out every other possibility of revealing being', how can they be escaped?26 How can other choices and alternatives be found and enacted? How is there any scope for agency and resistance in the face of them? Their social and discursive power -- one that aims to take up the entire space of the political -- needs to be respected and understood. However, we are far from powerless in the face of them. The need is to critique dominant images of political being and dominant ways of securing that being at the same time, and to act and choose such that we bring into the world a more sustainable, peaceful and non-violent global rule of the political.

===cap=== 
====1nc cap==== 

**Aff’s capitalist**
**Sheppard, ‘90** (E Sheppard, "Transportation in a capitalist space-economy: transportation demand, circulation time, and transportation innovations," 1990, http://www.envplan.com/abstract.cgi?id=a221007)
Transportation, as the [...] underwriting capital accumulation.

**Extinction**
Ljubodrag **Simonovic**, Ph.D., Philosophy; M.A., Law; published author of seven books, 20**07**, A New World is Possible, “Basis of contemporary critical theory of capitalism.”
The final stage [...] sovereign political decisions.

**The alternative is to vote neg as an abandonment of belief in capitalism**
Adrian **Johnston**, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, University of New Mexico, 20**04**, Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society, Volume 9 // Issue 3
Perhaps the absence [...] this same material.

===whyte=== 
====1nc whyte==== 

**The logic of economic competitiveness is deployed to maintain the myth of American exceptionalism and hegemony – this is inevitably wielded to justify genocide and imperial violence -- the alternative is to reject the affirmative as a refusal of competitiveness logic**
**Whyte 7** – PHD and reader in Sociology at the University of Liverpool School of Sociology and Social policy (Dave Whyte, “Market Patriotism and the "War on Terror"”, in Social Justice, vol 34 iss 3/4, Proquest, IWren)
It is doubtful [...] bulwarks against terrorism.

==impact turns== 
===heg bad=== 
====1nc unsustainability==== 

**Heg is unsustainable – emerging powers, wealth transfer, and nonstate actors**
**US National Intel Council Report, ‘08**
(National Intelligence Council, U.S. National Intelligence Agency Mid-Term and Long-Term Thinking, Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World, p.vi)
The international system [...] undermine liberal institutions.

====1nc prolif==== 

**Unipolar system creates recalcitrant power backlash which leads to proliferation and war**
**Monteiro 12** - Professor of Political Science at Yale, PhD in Political Science from UChicago
(Nuno, “Unrest Assured: Why Unipolarity is Not Peaceful,” MIT Press Journals, International Security Vol. 36, No. 3, Pages 9-40)
In an international [...] become major powers.

**Extinction**
**Asal and Beardsley 09** (Victor, Department of Political Science, State University of New York, Albany, and Kyle, Department of Political Science, Emory University, Winning with the Bomb, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/uploads/Beardsley-Asal_Winning_with_the_Bomb.pdf)
Conclusion Why do [...] peace and stability.

====2nc osb==== 

**US reacts to decline by shifting to offshore balancing – solves war and avoids impact turns**
**Layne ‘2**
(Christopher, Associate Professor of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, “US Response to the ‘Looking Glass’,” Washington Quarterly)
Second, although a [...] new great powers.

===co2 good=== 
====1nc ice age==== 

**a.) Ice age coming now – causes extinction**
**Aym, ’10**
[Terrence, 12/22/10, Helium, “German scientist predicts new Ice age now approaching” http://www.helium.com/items/2045473-scientist-predicts-new-ice-age-now-approaching]
Panicking people fleeing [...] likelihood of more snow."

**b.) High CO2 solves – this evidence answers any link turns**
**Lacis, et. al., ‘10**
[Andrew, 10/15/10, Science Magazine, “Atmospheric CO2: Principal Control Knob Governing Earth’s Temperature,” http://www.sciencemag.org/content/330/6002/356.full]

A direct consequence [...] is also achievable.

====2nc top-level==== 

**Empirics first**
Richard I. **Hofferbert**, Professor of Political Science @ SUNY Binghamton, 19**90**, The reach and grasp of policy analysis, p. 38-40
In the everyday [...] numbers of observations.

**A Little Ice Age will hit in 2014**
**Corsi, ’10**
[Jerome, WND, “New Ice Age to Begin in 2014,” http://www.wnd.com/index.php?fa=PAGE.printable&pageId=155225]
CHICAGO – A new [...] be FAR worse

**Magnitude – warming is natural and cyclical – the Ice Age would be FAR worse**
**Wigmore, ‘07**
[Barry, 9/13. London Times “Global Warming? It’s Natural, say Experts,” http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CDcQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.dailymail.co.uk%2Fnews%2Farticle-481613%2FGlobal-warming-Its-natural-say-experts.html&ei=kh7_TtXUOOre0QHG9ZHoCQ&usg=AFQjCNHpilehFfz_S8qcLWDOHRz79i9Qxg&sig2=i6ERe8VDpplaTTJ7QkGiag]
Global warming is [...] of the Sun."

====at: warming turns ice age==== 

**Only CO2 can stop the Ice Age**
**Weaver**, Ph.D in psychology, and Hillaire-Marcel, geo-scientist and Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, 20**04**
(Andrew and Claude. “Global warming and the next ice age.” Science magazine. April 16, online)
A popular idea [...] downstream over Europe.

===competitiveness bad=== 
====1nc krugman==== 

**Competitiveness hurts growth and risks trade wars.**
Paul **Krugman**, Professor of Economics at MIT, Mar/Apr 19**94**, “Competitiveness: A dangerous obsession,” Foreign Affairs 73.2, ebsco
Thinking and speaking [...] theory of evolution.

===dedev=== 
====1nc inevitability==== 

**Collapse inevitable – diminishing returns from innovations – partitioned collapse solves extinction**
Deborah **Mackenzie 08** – BBC Correspondant. Quotes Joe Tainter - an archaeologist at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, and author of the 1988 book The Collapse of Complex Societies, and Yaneer Bar-Yam, head of the New England Complex Systems Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts 4/5/2008 (“Are WE doomed?” Ebsco)
The very nature [...] inherit the Earth.

====1nc k-wave==== 

**Collapse stops wars – forced refocus**
**Bennett and Nordstrom**, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State, **2k** [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, February, Ebsco]
In this analysis [...] substitutability between them.

**Economic upswings cause wars – impact’s extinction**
**Chase-Dunn and Podobnik**, assistant professor of sociology, **99** (Christoper, D irector of the Institute for Research on World-Systems, , Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology at U of California, and Bruce, Anthropology at Lewis and Clark College, The Future of Global Conflict, ed. Bornschier and Chase-Dunn, pg 43)
While the onset [...] does not occur .

**Upswing wars outweigh – they’re 21 times as deadly**
**Goldstein, ‘88** - Joshua S. Goldstein, Professor of International Relations, American University, 1988, Long Cycles, pp. 244-248
The connection between [...] and consistent correlation.29

====1nc environment==== 

**Growth collapses the environment – causes extinction**
**Speth, ‘08** – Rhodes Scholar @ Oxford University, Chairman of Council on Environmental Quality for Executive Office, Founder of World Recourses Institute (Think-Tank), Led the Western Hemisphere Dialogue on Environment and Development, Administrator of United Nations Development Program, Dean of Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Leader of the President’s Task Force on Global Recourses and the Environment, Holds multiple awards—National Wildlife Federation’s Recourse Defense Award and Lifetime Achievement Award of Environmental Law Institute, and Blue Planet Prize, James, “The Bridge at the Edge of the World”, pages 1-9
The remarkable charts [...] to sustain life.

===nuke deterrence bad=== 
====1nc blair and yali==== 

**First strike capability becomes irresistible, it causes preemption and nuclear war**
**Blair and Yali 6** (Bruce G. Blair is the President of the World Security Institute. Mr. Blair is the author of numerous articles and books on security issues including the Logic of Accidental Nuclear War and Global Zero Alert for Nuclear Forces. He is presently completing a new book on U.S. nuclear policy. Chen Yali is the editor in chief of Washington Observer. She is also a Program Manager of Chen Shi China Research Group based in Beijing. “The Fallacy of Nuclear Primacy” http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_4.pdf Donnie)
In their disturbing [...] resist, they argue.

**Prolif leads to global nuclear war – escalation is guaranteed**
**Taylor, 1** (Theodore, Chairman of NOVA, Former Nuclear Weapons Designer, Recipient of the US Atomic Energy Commission’s 1965 Lawrence Memorial Award and former Deputy Dir. of Defense Nuclear Agency, “Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons”, in “Breakthrough: Emerging New Thinking”, http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/taylor.html)
Nuclear proliferation - be [...] global nuclear war.

==port dredging neg== 
===marine biodiversity da=== 
====1nc marine biod==== 

Dredging adversely effects aquatic habitats – destroys marine biodiversity and independently kills the fishing industry – their defense doesn’t apply
Phernambucq, 1993 – District Engineer, U.S. Army Engineer (Stanley G, “DREDGING: KEY LINK IN THE STRATEGIC NATIONAL DEFENSE”, 15 April 1993, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA264544) // CB
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF DREDGING There are environmental resources that may be at risk during dredging activities. Dredging is not a benign activity; it disrupts habitats and redistributes sediments. These activities can significantly effect the coastal ecosystem and destroy marine life, especially sedentary invertebrates. These invertebrates are important parts of the food chain and contribute to the feeding of other fish; fish which are ultimately used for human consumption. Other aquatic impacts of dredging include habitat loss when the sea bottom is altered. This occurs when dredged materials are deposited at a location and its material composition is altered. This decreases the diversity and abundance of certain species. Water circulation can be impacted when mounding occurs. This action can cause different siltation deposits and lead to the elimination of spawning areas. Turbidity, or the suspension of sediments into the water column, can result in reduced light penetration and expose fish to abrasive materials. Most importantly, dredging has the potential of releasing comparatively large doses of toxic substances into a new aquatic environment and to make them available to marine organisms. These materials include heavy metals, PCB's, pesticides, and other toxic materials that are certain to persist in marine life for quite some time. Many species of marine life are sensitive to the impacts of dredging. The testing procedures previously described are designed to preclude the release of materials that could pose an unacceptable risk to marine life. The real dilemma arises as to how much is acceptable to the environment.2

Loss of marine biodiversity causes extinction – US is key
Craig, 2003, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana U School Law, McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, just as they do for terrestrial ecosystems, but these arguments have thus far rarely been raised in political debates. For example, besides significant tourism values - the most economically valuable ecosystem service coral reefs provide, worldwide - coral reefs protect against storms and dampen other environmental fluctuations, services worth more than ten times the reefs' value for food production. n856 Waste treatment is another significant, non-extractive ecosystem function that intact coral reef ecosystems provide. n857 More generally, "ocean ecosystems play a major role in the global geochemical cycling of all the elements that represent the basic building blocks of living organisms, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, and sulfur, as well as other less abundant but necessary elements." n858 In a very real and direct sense, therefore, human degradation of marine ecosystems impairs the planet's ability to support life. Maintaining biodiversity is often critical to maintaining the functions of marine ecosystems. Current evidence shows that, in general, an ecosystem's ability to keep functioning in the face of disturbance is strongly dependent on its biodiversity, "indicating that more diverse ecosystems are more stable." n859 Coral reef ecosystems are particularly dependent on their biodiversity. [*265] Most ecologists agree that the complexity of interactions and degree of interrelatedness among component species is higher on coral reefs than in any other marine environment. This implies that the ecosystem functioning that produces the most highly valued components is also complex and that many otherwise insignificant species have strong effects on sustaining the rest of the reef system. n860 Thus, maintaining and restoring the biodiversity of marine ecosystems is critical to maintaining and restoring the ecosystem services that they provide. Non-use biodiversity values for marine ecosystems have been calculated in the wake of marine disasters, like the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska. n861 Similar calculations could derive preservation values for marine wilderness. However, economic value, or economic value equivalents, should not be "the sole or even primary justification for conservation of ocean ecosystems. Ethical arguments also have considerable force and merit." n862 At the forefront of such arguments should be a recognition of how little we know about the sea - and about the actual effect of human activities on marine ecosystems. The United States has traditionally failed to protect marine ecosystems because it was difficult to detect anthropogenic harm to the oceans, but we now know that such harm is occurring - even though we are not completely sure about causation or about how to fix every problem. Ecosystems like the NWHI coral reef ecosystem should inspire lawmakers and policymakers to admit that most of the time we really do not know what we are doing to the sea and hence should be preserving marine wilderness whenever we can - especially when the United States has within its territory relatively pristine marine ecosystems that may be unique in the world. We may not know much about the sea, but we do know this much: if we kill the ocean we kill ourselves, and we will take most of the biosphere with us.

===hydraulic dredging pic=== 
====1nc hydraulic dredging==== 

[CP TEXT: United States federal government should create and fully fund new hydraulic port deepening projects in the United States. United States federal government should not substantially increase its investment in port deepening projects in the United States.]

We’ll clarify.

COMPETITION – there are two main methods of dredging in the United States – hydraulic dredging and mechanical dredging
RSI, posted 2009 (River Sand Incorporated, “Dredging Methods – Hydraulic versus Mechanical,” http://www.riversandinc.com/pages/46/dredging-methods >:)
There are basically two approaches to dredging, mechanical and hydraulic. Mechanical dredging involves removing sediment with machinery usually with a bucket of some type. The most common types are an excavator or clamshell bucket. Hydraulic dredging includes the use of a pump, usually barge mounted, to move material in a slurry via a pipeline. Both can be very practical and efficient depending on the material type, depth, and location of its destination.

T<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">he word ‘increase’ requires making an already existing thing greater </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Buckley et al, 06 - attorney (Jeremiah, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al, http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">First, the court said that the ordinary meaning of the word “increase” is “to make something greater,” which it believed should not “be limited to cases in which a company raises the rate that an individual has previously been charged.” 435 F.3d at 1091. Yet the definition offered by the Ninth Circuit compels the opposite conclusion. Because “increase” means “to make something greater,” there must necessarily have been an existing premium, to which Edo’s actual premium may be compared, to determine whether an “increase” occurred. Congress could have provided that “ad-verse action” in the insurance context means charging an amount greater than the optimal premium, but instead chose to define adverse action in terms of an “increase.” That def-initional choice must be respected, not ignored. See Colautti v. Franklin, 439 U.S. 379, 392-93 n.10 (1979) (“[a] defin-ition which declares what a term ‘means’ . . . excludes any meaning that is not stated”). Next, the Ninth Circuit reasoned that because the Insurance Prong includes the words “existing or applied for,” Congress intended that an “increase in any charge” for insurance must “apply to all insurance transactions – from an initial policy of insurance to a renewal of a long-held policy.” 435 F.3d at 1091. This interpretation reads the words “exist-ing or applied for” in isolation. Other types of adverse action described in the Insurance Prong apply only to situations where a consumer had an existing policy of insurance, such as a “cancellation,” “reduction,” or “change” in insurance. Each of these forms of adverse action presupposes an already-existing policy, and under usual canons of statutory construction the term “increase” also should be construed to apply to increases of an already-existing policy. See Hibbs v. Winn, 542 U.S. 88, 101 (2004) (“a phrase gathers meaning from the words around it”) (citation omitted). </span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Normal means for the aff is mechanical dredging which destroys the environment – hydraulic dredging solves best – our evidence is comparative </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Robert McIenehan, 2nd Quarter, second issue 2006 (writer, ‘Technically Speaking,’ edition number 61, “Hydraulic dredging creates options for ports in North America,” http://www.golder.ca/archive/Technically-Speaking/TS_61/03.html >:) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Hydraulic dredging creates options for ports in North America. Port managers in North America are in a position to offer better service to the ships that use their facilities, through dredging methods that can cause less environmental impact and that have recently seen regulatory approval. Ports are in a highly competitive business, seeking to gain more traffic in part by accommodating larger vessels. To keep their waterways dredged to the appropriate depth, ports need flexibility regarding where and when they can dredge. This need runs squarely into the importance of protecting the undersea environment from dredging-caused sediment disturbance. [Ports] Dredging using clamshell methods can cause unacceptable amounts of suspension and transport of sediments, calling for new dredging methods. One solution, long used in Europe, is low turbidity hydraulic dredging. It uses what is in effect a giant vacuum cleaner to remove sediment in a way that minimizes sediment dispersal. Accurate positioning of the dredge-head using Global Positioning Satellite technology, three-dimensional mapping of the seabed and real-time turbidity measurement round out the package of technologies that makes hydraulic dredging more feasible. An application of low turbidity hydraulic dredging in Prince Rupert, on Canada’s West Coast, has opened the door to regulatory approval of a wider range of hydraulic dredging applications in Canada, possibly extending to the rest of North America. This application was particularly significant because it involved some 50,000 cubic metres (65,000 cubic yards) of contaminated sediment. The method was subsequently applied at Kitimat, BC to also remove contaminated sediment and to achieve navigational dredging requirements. The success of these projects has created the opportunity to use these technologies at other ports facing similar challenges.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">at: p/ cp</span>==== 

CP COMPETES – the affirmative must increase funding for already existing port dredging projects –

‘Substantially’ requires pre-existence Markey, 2009 – Judge for the Court of Appeals for the State of Michigan (PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN, Plaintiff-Appellee, v ROBERT ALAN McREYNOLDS, Defendant-Appellant, http://coa.courts.mi.gov/documents/OPINIONS/FINAL/COA/20090630_C282582_51_282582.OPN.PDF In MCL 777.37(1)
(a), “sadism” is grouped with “torture,” “excessive brutality,” and “conduct designed to substantially increase the fear and anxiety a victim suffered during the offense.” The inclusion of the adjective “excessive” in “excessive brutality” is noteworthy. “Excessive” means going beyond the usual, necessary, or proper limit or degree; characterized by excess.” Random House Webster’s College Dictionary (1997). Thus, “excessive brutality” implies that there may be brutality in the commission of a crime, but the variable is scored for brutality that is “beyond the usual” occurring in the commission of the crime. Similarly, in the phrase, “conduct designed to substantially increase the fear and anxiety a victim suffered during the offense,” the inclusion of the words “substantially increase” is noteworthy. The phrasing implicitly recognizes that there is a baseline level of fear and anxiety a victim suffers during an offense, and the scoring of the variable is appropriate for conduct that is designed to substantially increase that level. This phrasing also suggests that the Legislature intended the scoring to be based on conduct beyond that necessary to commit the offense. The context of the term “sadism” with other terms that contemplate conduct beyond that necessary to commit the offense suggests that the conduct that forms the basis of sadism is conduct that is in addition to that necessary to commit the offense. Thus, “sadism” denotes conduct that exceeds that which is inherent in the commission of the offense.

‘Investment’ requires capital expenditure
IER 4 (Institute for Economic Research and Policy Consulting in Ukraine, “How to Improve Public Investment Efficiency in Ukraine?”, February, http://www.osteuropa-institut.de/ext_dateien/how%20to%20improve.pdf)
1. Definitions and recent trends 1.1. Definitions Throughout the paper public investment is defined as capital expenditure financed out of the central or local budgets, in the Treasury definition. This comprises purchases of fixed assets including repairs and reconstruction, the creation of state reserves, purchases of land and intangibles, and capital transfers to enterprises, other levels of government, the population, or abroad. This differs from Derzhkomstat’s definition of public capital investment, also used in this paper.1

‘Capital expenditure’ requires spending on improvement of current projects
Law Depot, 2008 (“Capital Expenditure”, 2-6, http://wiki.lawdepot.com/wiki/Capital_Expenditure) Definition of "Capital Expenditure" Capital expenditure is money spent to acquire or upgrade (improve) long term assets such as property, buildings and machinery. Capital expenditure does not include the cost to merely repair such assets.

More ev – normal means is mechanical dredging
The Dredge Source, posted 2007 (online dredge resource center, “Mechanical Dredges,” http://www.dredgesource.com/mechanical-dredges.aspx >:) There was a time when nearly all dredging was done by hand. It was a laborious process, as you might imagine--armies of workers were dispatched to drag river bottoms and prepare waterways for vessels of unprecedented scale. Today this process has been entirely [switched to] mechanized, leaving motivated engineers free to dream up new technologies for ever more precise operation. Mechanical dredges come in a number of forms nowadays, including some truly exotic designs you may not have seen before. From basic augers and hoes to cutterheads and chain ladders, there is practically no limit to the kind of power and speed you can achieve. Thankfully it is easier than ever to get your hands on reliable parts for mechanical dredges, and today the Web offers unprecedented search depth as well.

====<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">2nc air pollution n/b</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Net benefit – mechanical dredging leads to PCB exposure to the surface and air contamination – hydraulic dredging solves </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Ariel Wittenberg, May 2nd, 2012 (writer, South Coast Today, “Health risks posed by mechanical dredging worry experts,” http://www.southcoasttoday.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20120502/NEWS/205020345/-1/NEWS10 >:) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">NEW BEDFORD — Environmental and public health experts are concerned that mechanical dredging poses health risks more significant than those calculated by the Environmental Protection Agency. Mechanical dredging of the harbor has been opposed by the environmental group Buzzards Bay Coalition because it results in burying PCB-contaminated soil beneath the harbor, instead of trucking it to an approved disposal site in Michigan, as is done in hydraulic dredging. With mechanical dredging, as opposed to hydraulic dredging, PCB-contaminated soil is brought to the surface and carried down the harbor on an open-air barge before being dumped into the CAD cell located between the Interstate 195 and Route 6 bridges. Experts brought to New Bedford last week by the coalition at an informational meeting on the dredging process said they are worried that bringing the sediment to the surface could pose more risks. "When you are doing hydraulic dredging, that is all closed off and submarine," University of Connecticut Marine Sciences Professor Frank Bohlen said. "But the fact that you are now bringing it above the surface and sitting it on a barge for some time has the potential to liberate some contaminants into the air." </span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Air pollution leads to long term unsustainability of life </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Driesen ‘03 (David, Professor of Law, Syracuse, Buffalo Environmental Law Journal, Fall, 2002 / Spring, 2003, p. LN) Air pollution can make life unsustainable by harming the ecosystem upon which all life depends and harming the health of both future and present generations. The Rio Declaration articulates six key principles that are relevant to air pollution. These principles can also be understood as goals, because they describe a state of affairs [*27] that is worth achieving. Agenda 21, in turn, states a program of action for realizing those goals. Between them, they aid understanding of sustainable development's meaning for air quality. The first principle is that "human beings. . . are entitled to a healthy and productive life in harmony with nature", because they are "at the center of concerns for sustainable development." n3 While the Rio Declaration refers to human health, its reference to life "in harmony with nature" also reflects a concern about the natural environment. n4 Since air pollution damages both human health and the environment, air quality implicates both of these concerns.</span>

===trade advantage=== 
====1nc trade f/l==== 

Dredging is useless – Suez Canal solves light loading, West Coast ports solve and are net better, and can’t quantify the effect on jobs – their evidence is grounded in political rhetoric and sources looking to profit
Jessica Meyers, May 13th, 2012 (writer @ Politico, “Panama Canal expansion turns into ‘money grab’,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0512/76224.html >:)
The promise of a Panama Canal expansion has spurred a flurry of legislative pleas and proposals. Too bad it’s largely hype. Improvements completed on the canal by 2014 will allow ships twice as big to reach the East Coast. In theory, this could reroute vessels that stop on the West Coast and send goods across the country. Lawmakers have used the expansion to push along bills, beg for more funding and tout their role enhancing international trade. And the canal has turned into an unlikely catchphrase for an oft-ignored port industry. But much stands in the way of that potential. Goods still will move faster across the country than through a full water route. The East Coast option may prove cheaper, but Panama has not said how much it will charge in tolls. And the Suez Canal already offers a venue for these larger ships. The truth is nobody really knows. “It’s all a money grab,” said Tom Finkbiner, senior chairman of the Intermodal Transportation Institute at the University of Denver. “The competition becomes between ports and it goes to Washington and you have to justify why you are spending this money. So it becomes an excuse.” Unlike the West Coast, few East Coast ports are deep enough to fit the larger ships known as post-Panamax. Only Norfolk, Va., appears completely ready with several other Northeastern ports finishing repairs. Ports in Miami, Savannah, Ga., and Charleston, S.C., are among the Southeastern horde eager to catch up. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers evaluates dredging projects, which cost hundreds of millions of dollars. And then federal funds help pay for them. Enter Washington. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), a member of the Appropriations Committee, has called deeper ports “the economic gateway to the world.” The committee just approved $3.5 million for a Charleston Harbor deepening study. “We’ve got to have a vision to meet this new reality,” he said. “The Panama Canal is going to expand. Giant ships are going to come through the canal to service the East Coast.” New Jersey Democratic Sens. Frank Lautenberg , also a member of the Appropriations Committee, and Robert Menendez recently praised the committee for approving $68 million for deepening projects at the Port of New York and New Jersey. Note the keywords: “It is a top priority to ensure the port is prepared to handle the larger ships that will pass through the expanded Panama Canal,” Lautenberg said in a statement. “This is an important investment that will help the port continue to support billions of dollars in business and hundreds of thousands of jobs in New Jersey and our region.” The expansion has made equal noise in the House, where the words engender glazed eyes and heady anticipation of bolstered trade. Ted Poe (R-Texas) has used the energy surrounding it to help spearhead a Ports Caucus. “Our ports need to be ratcheted up to accommodate those ships,” he told POLITICO, adding that not all ports will need to hold the larger tankers. “It certainly won’t hurt our economy to have access coming to the East Coast.” Charles Boustany (R-La.) gave the expansion credit for support of his bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise Act, a bill that would help ports get access to taxes they pay into a trust fund. Almost 200 House members have signed on to it. “People are backing it because they see the strategic importance with the Panama Canal expansion,” he said to POLITICO. “If we are going to continue on this trajectory, we have to have maritime infrastructure to support it.” Jim Oberstar, former head of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, also preaches its benefits. “With the Panama Canal, a good deal of that congestion could pass right through the canal, through the Caribbean, up the Atlantic seaboard, at lower cost and less adverse … environmental impact,” he told POLITICO. “But we’re not deepening our ports.” Outside of Washington, the echoes of anticipation sound a bit more muted. Freight companies don’t see much change. “We are confident much of the trans-Pacific shift has already taken place,” said Aaron Hunt of Union Pacific, one of the country’s main rail systems. “We feel our intermodal rail network gives the West Coast ports the advantage in shipping time-sensitive products all the way to the Ohio Valley and points south of the Ohio Valley.” West Coast ports don’t look too intimidated, either. “You have governmental, congressional people who want to make sure they are in the game because they’ve been told it’s a game-changer,” said Kraig Jondle, the Los Angeles port’s director of business development. “We don’t think so.” An upcoming report by the Army Corps will weigh the canal’s impact and suggest how to modernize the country’s waterways. Officials say they can’t quantify yet the effect on jobs. The real legacy of the Panama Canal expansion may not be what it does as much as what it’s already done.


Alt cause – inland waterways (green)
JOC 1AC AUTHOR 9/13 – cites newest ASCE report on economic analysis on port and channel deepening (The Journal of Commerce Online, September 13, 2012, “ASCE Releases New Economic Analysis Revealing Far-Reaching Impacts of Under-Investing in our Nation’s Ports and Inland Waterways,” http://www.joc.com/press-release/asce-releases-new-economic-analysis-revealing-far-reaching-impacts-under-investing-our)//DR. H//
//“Congestion and delays lead to goods waiting on docks and in warehouses for shipment, which in turn leads to higher transportation costs and higher-priced products on store shelves,” said Andrew W. Herrmann, P.E., president of ASCE. “If we don’t close the investment gaps, everyone is going to feel the negative impacts because we are on course to lose more than one million jobs and more than $1 trillion in personal income by 2020.” The nation’s marine ports and inland waterways are critical links that make international commerce possible. However, with the scheduled expansion of the Panama Canal by 2015, the average size of container ships is likely to increase significantly, affecting the operations and most of the major U.S. ports that handle containerized cargo and requiring both sectors to modernize. Needed investment in marine ports includes harbor and channel dredging, while inland waterways require new or rehabilitated lock and dam facilities.//

//Alt cause to light loading – container shortages//
//Lutes, 2010 – Deputy Managing Director, Seaport Division, Port of Seattle, Washington (Phil, “Hearing on ‘Doubling U.S. exports: Are U.S. Seaports Ready for the Challenge?’” Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness, Senate Committee on Finance, April 29, 2010, http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910pltest.pdf)//MM
EXPORT CONTAINER SHORTAGE: 6 Let me turn to a very near term problem that, if resolved, could boost U.S. exports overnight – a shortage of empty containers for exports. As you know, consumers are simply not spending like they did during the days of easy credit and the run-up in real estate prices. The number of containers loaded with imported goods moving through our ports has decreased dramatically. Ships loaded with import containers destined for the U.S. generate the supply of empty containers and vessel space for U.S. exports. Due to the substantial decline in imports, carriers have anchored ships, consolidated services and dropped port calls to offset losses. Ultimately, this translates to fewer opportunities for our exporters to move their products. In addition, the weak U.S. dollar has generated a surge in demand for U.S. exports when containers are in short supply. To compound matters, U.S. exports are typically two to three times heavier per container than imports. That means ships carrying exports can’t be loaded to full capacity, which diminishes the space available for exports. But even when robust imports provide a steady supply of containers for export cargo, it can be expensive to reposition those containers where they’re needed. That’s because imported goods, and the containers they’re in, move primarily to large metropolitan areas where there’s a high demand for imported apparel, footwear, electronics and machinery. In contrast, many U.S. exports tend to originate in rural areas. Products such as agricultural goods, minerals, timber and other natural resources make up a large percentage of our export commodities. The container imbalance has become so extreme that there’s even a shortage of containers for exports originating near urban area ports. This short supply of containers, combined with constrained vessel capacity leads ocean carriers to make tough decisions when export demand is high. Carriers become very careful about how they manage this limited space. They are also careful about how they manage empty containers. Often, carriers are so eager to get containers back to Asia for the higher revenue imports, they actually load empties back on the ship at the expense of export loads. 7

The plan’s not key to growth – West coast ports solve and no impact to Panama deepening
Tate 12 (Curtis, McClatchy Washington Bureau, “As states seek funds for deeper ports, will ships come in?”, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2012/05/02/v-print/147455/as-states-seek-funds-for-deeper.html, ZBurdette)
A wider, deeper Panama Canal will open in 2014, meaning that bigger cargo ships filled with more containers of consumer goods can move directly to the population centers of the East Coast instead of stopping on the West Coast and sending the goods across the country. States with seaports along the Atlantic are asking for hundreds of millions of federal dollars to deepen their harbors and shipping channels to accommodate the bigger ships and capture a slice of the growing traffic. But some global supply-chain experts say the optimistic pre-recession projections of a huge shift in cargo from West Coast ports to East Coast ports no longer add up. Even the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which conducts feasibility studies for such projects and often does the dredging, expects little change in cargo volume at those ports. John Lanigan, the chief marketing officer for freight rail hauler Burlington Northern Santa Fe, which runs dozens of double-stacked container trains every day from West Coast ports to the Midwest and Southeast, said he didn’t expect a major diversion of cargo to the canal. “The opening of the canal is not going to make it any faster for freight to get to the East Coast,” he said. “The only thing that really changes is that bigger ships will be able to go through the canal.” Even so, Republican governors in South Carolina, Georgia and Florida, who were elected on platforms of fiscal conservatism, are still hoping that the federal government will pay for some of the cost of the harbor-deepening projects. But just in case the federal funding doesn’t come through, these states have a backup plan: Spend state taxpayers’ money. Currently the biggest ships that can fit through the Panama Canal can carry only about 4,000 containers, metal boxes full of consumer goods that can be transferred from ship to train to truck. The new, so-called post-Panamax ships will carry double or triple that volume. But because the ships are bigger and heavier, they also require water depths approaching 50 feet. The ports of Norfolk, Va., Baltimore, and New York and New Jersey have that depth now or will soon. Farther south, the ports in Charleston, S.C., Savannah, Ga., and Miami don’t want to see the bigger ships pass them by. “I don’t know too many ports that have gambled on shallow water that have stayed in the game,” said Kevin Lynskey, the assistant director for seaport business initiatives at the Port of Miami. “If we didn’t dredge and other people did, we certainly would lose more containers.” Proponents of harbor-deepening projects say they’re vital for local and state economies and will create thousands of jobs in a country that’s still reeling from the deepest economic downturn since the Great Depression. “It’s the biggest strategic issue for South Carolina today,” said Jim Newsome, the chief executive of the South Carolina Ports Authority, which needs $300 million to deepen the 45-foot harbor in Charleston to 50 feet by 2020. “Businesses locate near ports; that’s the bottom line.” But Jean-Paul Rodrigue, a transportation scholar at Hofstra University, said it didn’t make sense for Charleston, Savannah and Miami all to have deeper harbors without more business. “You need a lot of volume,” he said. “It’s not certain those ports can generate that level of volume.” Several factors make a significant shift from one coast to the other unlikely. The first is speed. It’s less expensive for a ship to go the all-water route to the East Coast instead of docking on the West Coast and offloading containers onto trucks or trains, but it also takes at least a week longer. For consumer electronics and other high-end goods that need to get to store shelves quickly, retailers will pay more for faster transit times. Second, ports in Los Angeles, Long Beach and Oakland, Calif., and Seattle and Tacoma, Wash., are deep enough to handle the bigger ships. They have warehousing space for containers, and they have highly developed rail connections to the Midwest and Southeast. “Why not just unload all of it here?” asked Art Wong, a spokesman for the Port of Long Beach, which is second only in volume to Los Angeles in the U.S. “We hope to maintain those kinds of advantages.” Third, the Panama Canal authority must pay off billions of dollars in construction costs, and it’s unknown how much the canal will charge the bigger ships in tolls. Last, the Suez Canal can handle any size ship, and some cargo ships bound from Asia to North America already use it. “Depending on what Panama Canal charges in fees, it still makes economic sense to hit LA-Long Beach and be in Kansas City, Chicago or Louisville pretty darn quick,” said Charles Clowdis, the managing director of North American markets at economic forecaster IHS Global Insight. Rodrigue said the Atlantic states were using the canal as a rationale for their own port expansion plans. “If I was a port authority, I would be doing the same thing,” he said. “They want to do what they perceive is best for their own ports.” Newsome is banking on Charleston’s strategic position in a growing Southeast market, and he says the port could feed the region’s bigger population centers such as Charlotte, N.C., and Atlanta. “We think we’re the only harbor in the Southeast where it makes sense to go 50 feet or deeper,” he said. South Carolina Republican Gov. Nikki Haley has lobbied President Barack Obama for $120 million for the Charleston harbor but received only enough to complete a study of the project. The state Legislature is considering a bond issue to pay for the federal portion in case the funds don’t come through. “Gov. Haley has been working on securing funds to dredge Charleston since she was elected governor,” said Rob Godfrey, a spokesman, “and she is confident we will get our federal match and that Charleston will be as deep as necessary to make it the best port in the Southeast." Georgia also isn’t waiting. Republican Gov. Nathan Deal’s budget now includes about $180 million in state funds for the port of Savannah. He said the state would pay for all of it if necessary, then seek a reimbursement from Washington. Savannah is 100 miles south of Charleston and boasts the busier of the two ports, but it also has a shallower channel depth of 42 feet. Dredging the Savannah River would cost more than twice as much as Charleston, and would give the port only a 47-foot depth, though the river’s high tides would help accommodate bigger ships, as they do now. “If you compare the cost of the two projects, they have a lot more to fund,” Newsome said. Much of the $650 million cost is environmental mitigation. Billy Birdwell, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers Savannah District, said that included the impact on marshes and a wildlife refuge and protecting endangered sturgeon. History also gets in the way: A sunken Confederate vessel that’s in the channel would have to be removed. An Army Corps of Engineers study, released in January, concluded that the cost of deepening the channel to the port in Savannah is justified in part because it would generate $174 million in annual economic benefits. However, the report also said that no changes in cargo volume were expected as a result of the deeper channel. Birdwell said economic benefits would come from the efficiencies of the larger ships. Larger ships mean fewer ships, and less congestion getting in and out of the port. Stephanie Mayfield, a spokeswoman for Deal, said Georgia supported the expansion of both Savannah and Charleston. “Both ports are of regional and national significance, and there is plenty of business to go around,” she said. “Gov. Deal is committed to funding the state’s share of 40 percent and expects that the federal government will live up to their commitment and fund the remaining.” Florida Republican Gov. Rick Scott didn’t wait for an answer from Washington on the state’s request for $77 million for the Port of Miami. Just two months after he took office, Scott decided that the state would pick up the tab. “We chose to self-fund,” said Lynskey, the assistant director at the Miami port. “We do want to get reimbursed by the federal government, but we’re going ahead without knowing.” On Florida’s west coast, Port Manatee is nearing the end of a decade-long, $200 million expansion and has dredged to accommodate ships that have passed through the Panama Canal. Miami’s project is less expensive than Savannah’s or Charleston’s, and it might be complete by the end of 2014, Lynskey said. A rail link to the port was rebuilt recently, and a $1 billion road tunnel to reach the harbor will be finished soon. Last month, the port authority reached a deal with environmental groups that had opposed the dredging project out of concern for its impact on coral reefs. Lynskey said the construction bid for the project should be ready by August. Lynskey said that 60 percent of Florida-bound consumer goods from Asia didn’t come through the state’s ports, instead reaching Florida through Southern California or Savannah. With the deeper port, Lynskey expects Miami cargo volumes to double in the next decade. “If we get no more than recapturing Florida, we’re going to get our investment back,” he said.

Turn – ports harm growth – bottleneck exports and blockades
Kwak no date (Patrick Stothers Kwak first began writing professionally in 2008 as a contributor to the "UBC Foreign Affairs Journal." His articles are centered around international politics and political economy. Stothers Kwak holds a Bachelor of Arts in international relations from the University of British Columbia and is pursuing his Juris Doctorate at Osgoode Hall Law School at York University. “The Disadvantages of seaports,” http://www.ehow.com/info_8500850_disadvantages-sea-ports.html >:)
Bottleneck Exports A well-maintained export infrastructure, including a large deepwater port, allows demand for exports to be met seamlessly. Conversely, a limited seaport will adversely affect the movement of exports out of the country as it causes containers to bottleneck. When the movement of outgoing goods is slowed, exporters are forced to absorb the cost of delays. On a large scale, this can severely hamper the growth of an economy, especially one dependent on exports. Blockade Vulnerability Dependence on seaports as the source of all imports leaves a country vulnerable to blockades in the event of war. Severing a nation's ability to trade can have devastating consequences for the national economy and can even result in shortages. In the Second World War, Britain's reliance on trans-Atlantic trade facilitated the heavy use of U-boats by the German navy in an attempt to cut off key supplies.

Alt cause – supply chain failure
Dan Tracy, March 16th, 2011 (senior specialty writer at Orlando Sentinel, “Experts question Gov. Rick Scott’s port-dredging plan,” p/q >:)
More problematic for Miami, Poole said, is its road and rail network. There is no major rail spur in the Miami port and the roads already are clogged with traffic, he said. The rail issue could be fixed by 2012 because the port has come up with nearly $50 million in federal, state and private dollars to fix tracks and a bridge damaged by hurricanes, said Husein Cumber, vice president of corporate development of the Florida East Coast Railway. "South Florida is not going to miss out on international trade opportunities anymore," said Cumber. He said goods unloaded in Miami could reach virtually anywhere in the state or the Southeast just as fast as cargo unloaded farther north. But expanding the roads could well be too expensive, Poole said. In 2007, Poole wrote a paper suggesting the construction of a toll road leading to and from the port that would be mostly for trucks. That could cost $1 billion or more, likely making the tolls too high for truckers to afford on a regular basis, he said. The state already is spending $1 billion building twin tunnels linking the MacArthur Causeway east of downtown Miami with the port. They would get the trucks out of downtown, but still place them on already crowded highways such as Interstate 95. Without additional major rail and road improvements, Poole and Vitner said, it is unlikely ships would deliver goods in Miami slated for Central and North Florida, much less the Southeast. "It's a logistic chain, of which the ship is one link in the chain," Wainio said. Burgess, the governor's spokesman, said the state is aware that more needs to be done and is looking at ways to improve the transportation of goods and cargo. "The governor is confident that the Port of Miami project is an effective way to position Florida as a global economic hub in the coming years," he said.

Econ’s resilient – innovations solve
Leonhardt, New York Times, National Bureau of Economic Research, 2005 [David, October 8, Business Cycle Data]
MEMPHIS - The nearly empty Airbus 310 was coasting through the Alabama night sky when a message flashed in the cockpit. "DIVERT," it said, before using code to order the plane to land in Atlanta. The pilot banked the jet to the east and a half-hour later it was on the ground. There, its cargo door opened up to a group of waiting FedEx employees who began filling it with 17,000 pounds of cargo. It had been a busy day for Georgia businesses, and FedEx's regular nightly flights from Atlanta to the company's Memphis hub were overbooked with packages. So the local crew made a call to a sprawling, low-slung room here at headquarters, where people hunch over computer screens showing weather maps and flight plans, and asked for help from the five empty FedEx jets that roam over the United States every night. The recent birth of that small fleet, at a multimillion-dollar price tag, explains a lot about how the nation's economy has become so much more resilient. Think of it as the FedEx economy, a system that constantly recalibrates itself to cope with surprises. The United States has endured an almost biblical series of calamities in recent years - wars, hurricanes, financial scandals, soaring oil prices and rising interest rates - but the economy keeps chugging along at an annual growth rate of roughly 3 percent. It has been able to do so with the help of technology that allows businesses to react ever more quickly to changes. But with little notice, those reactions have also created a new feature of the business cycle: the micro-recession. When one of them strikes, activity slows for a few weeks, sometimes in just certain sectors or regions, as companies adjust to a dip in demand. It has happened much more often in the last few years than in earlier expansions, but growth has picked up each time, thanks in part to the adjustments that businesses have made. No company embodies this change, for better and worse, quite like FedEx. When Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, sees Frederick W. Smith, FedEx's chief executive, during halftime of Washington Redskins games, Mr. Greenspan uses the company's vast reach to check in on the economy. "He always asks, 'We still O.K.?' " said Mr. Smith, a part-owner of the team whose stadium suite abuts the one Mr. Greenspan uses. More formally, Federal Reserve staff members rely on FedEx and the nearly six million packages it delivers every day for real-time data that helps set interest rate policy. The company's around-the-world flights - fuller coming from Asia than going to it - are the shipping lanes of the global economy, bringing goods from Chinese factories to American shelves in just days. FedEx technology helps Procter & Gamble managers send more Crest to Wal-Mart whenever somebody buys a tube, and the managers can then watch the replacement move through the supply chain from their computer screens. All this - combined with financial innovations that allow companies to hedge their bets and, some say, the deregulation of pivotal transportation industries - has helped mute the economy's swings. The business cycle has certainly not been eliminated, as some dreamers suggested during the 1990's boom, but recessions really do seem to happen less often. There have been only two recessions in the last two decades. From the late 1960's through the early 80's, the economy endured four [recessions] of them, including two of the deepest in decades, which left millions of people out of work. "The more flexible an economy, the greater its ability to self-correct after inevitable, often unanticipated disturbances," Mr. Greenspan argued in a recent speech. "The impressive performance of the U.S. economy over the past couple of decades, despite shocks that in the past would have surely produced marked economic contraction, offers the clearest evidence of the benefits of increased market flexibility." Of course, new technologies and global shipping lanes are also big reasons that job growth has been so disappointing during this expansion and that the gains from recent economic growth have gone mainly to highly skilled white-collar workers. In Woodbridge, N.J., for example, a large FedEx shipping center can sometimes seem void of human beings. And revenue at the express-shipping division has grown almost 30 percent since 2002, while the full-time work force has declined slightly. The number of part-time workers has grown. Across the economy, quick reactions, like asking workers to put in more hours one week and fewer the next, have helped lead to the business cycle's new hiccups. Mr. Smith calls them "mini-recessions."

Port failure inevitable – climate change
Kafalenos and Leonard, et al., ’08 [2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, “What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?”, A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation]
Due to their location, marine facilities are most vulnerable to storm surge and relative sea level rise. Marine facilities include both freight and nonfreight facilities: ports, marinas, and industry-support facilities. Virtually all of the region’s port facilities, or 98 percent, have the potential to be inundated by a storm surge of 5.5 m (18 ft), and 99 percent would be affected by a surge of 7.0 m (23 ft). A RSLR of 61 cm (2 ft) has the potential to affect Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I Chapter 4: What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation? 4-26 64 percent of the region’s port facilities, while a 122-cm (4-ft) rise in relative sea level would affect nearly three-quarters of the port facilities. Impacts related to increased temperatures and changes in precipitation are expected to include increased costs related to maintenance as rising temperatures place greater stress on facilities, higher energy costs for refrigeration, and changes in the quantity and type of products shipped through the region as production and consumption patterns change both in and outside the region due to climate change. Marine facilities and waterways are vital to the region and to the Nation as a whole. As noted in chapter 2.0, the study area is one of the Nation’s leading centers of marine activity. Much of the region’s economy is directly linked to waterborne commerce. and in turn, this waterborne commerce supports a substantial portion of the U.S. economy. While some of these functions could be considered “replaceable” by facilities and waterways elsewhere, many of them – by virtue of geography, connections to particular industries and markets, historical investments, or other factors – represent unique and essentially irreplaceable assets. It might be possible to provide capacity equivalent to the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway or the Mississippi River on land, via highway and/or rail. It might even be possible to provide landside connections to, and sufficient capacity at, alternative international seaports, but the capital costs to provide such “replacement capacity” would undoubtedly be huge, and the costs to system users would be dramatically higher, if not prohibitively higher.

Heg collapse won’t cause war – international order’s stable
Zakaria, Editor of Newsweek International, 2008 [Fareed, The Post-American World, p. 242-3]
What if that hegemony is waning? America no longer has the only large market in the world. The dollar is unlikely to retain its totemic position forever as the reserve currency, yielding to a basket that is largely composed of euros and dollars but includes other currencies too. In certain areas—the South China Sea, for example—U.S. military force is likely to be less relevant than that of China. In international negotiations, America will have to bargain and compromise with others. Does all this add up to instability and disorder? Not necessarily. Two hundred years of Anglo-American hegemony has in fact created a system that is not as fragile as it might have been in the 1920s and 1930s. (When British power waned, America was unwilling to step in, and Europe fell through the cracks.) The basic conception of the current system—an open world economy, multilateral negotiations— has wide acceptance. And new forms of cooperation are growing. Anne-Marie Slaughter has written about how legal systems are constructing a set of transnational standards without anyone's forcing them to do so—creating a bottom-up, networked order.13 Not every issue will lend itself to such stabilization, but many will. In other words, the search for a superpower solution to every problem may be futile and unnecessary. Smaller work-arounds might be just as effective.

===agriculture advantage=== 
====1nc agriculture f/l==== 

UK solves ag
Ravelo (Devex Staff writer) 8-2-2012 Jenny Lei, “NO TEETH? NEW FOOD AID TREATY WINS EU SUPPORT” http://www.devex.com/en/blogs/49/blogs_entries/78831?source=MostPopularNews_4
A new blueprint to help developing countries improve access to food is a step closer to taking effect. Kristalina Georgieva, the EU commissioner for international cooperation, humanitarian aid and crisis response, signed the treaty, called the Food Assistance Convention, on Wednesday (Aug. 1). The Cyprus Presidency of the European Parliament also signed the same day, Georgieva’s spokesman David Sharrock confirmed to Devex. The treaty is meant to replace the Food Aid Convention of 1999, a binding agreement between donors that set a fixed minimum amount of food aid to be given to developing countries; it expired in June. The new agreement supports local and regional procurement, and several forms of food assistance such as cash and vouchers. But several nongovernmental organizations and experts have voiced concerns about some provisions in the treaty. Unlike its predecessor, the new agreement does not set a fixed annual commitment of food aid from signatories. This, according to experts, will provide donors the chance to increase or decrease the amount of food assistance they provide yearly. “If signatories are going to do what they would have done anyway, what is the additional value of international treaty commitments?” Overseas Development Institute’s Ed Clay said in a blog post republished by Devex. Sharrock, the ECHO spokesman, stressed that the new agreement is meant to improve, not increase food assistance. “It is about making sure that food assistance is no longer about the disposal of surpluses, but more about what is really needed,” he explained. Interestingly, the new treaty is not open to nondonor countries — at least initially, according to Nadia Khoury of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. Initially, the agreement is limited to 35 countries, including EU members as well as Argentina, Australia, Canada, Croatia, Norway, Switzerland, the United States and Japan, which was the first to sign it in July. Once at least five countries ratify the treaty, it can be enforced and other countries may accede. The European Commission is working closely with the European Parliament to have the treaty ratified by November, according to Sharrock. Others may sign on by January.

Improved port infrastructure lowers corn prices
ICGA 2012 (Iowa Corn Growers Association, “Legislative Priority,” http://www.iowacorn.org/en/policy/legislative_priorities/ >:)
Transportation Infrastructure Iowa’s roads and bridges in many areas are in desperate need of improvement, and funding to support Iowa’s roads is currently not enough to meet the demand for maintenance of Iowa’s road system. Iowa’s Road Use Tax Fund (RUTF) is funded by the ‘fuel tax’ and is constitutionally protected from diversions for other purposes. Transportation infrastructure is essential for corn growers and Iowa’s economy. ICGA will be asking the legislature to support a fuel tax increase for road infrastructure. Ethanol Infrastructure Iowa’s Renewable Fuels Infrastructure Fund assists retailers in upgrading to E85, blender pumps or for biodiesel infrastructure. The ICGA is committed to maintain or expand the Renewable Fuels Infrastructure Fund, including for E15. This program provides an opportunity for retailers to upgrade their infrastructure through cost-sharing grants of up to 70%. ICGA will protect this program, and oppose any diversions of funding to other purposes besides renewable fuels infrastructure. Regulation Agriculture is a vital industry for Iowa’s economy. One out of every six jobs in Iowa are directly related to the agriculture industry. Agriculture can only remain vital in the state if it has reasonable regulations. ICGA is in support of efforts to reduce or revise unnecessary and unworkable regulations for the agriculture industry. Environment Iowa farmers have made measurable progress in conservation and water quality. According to the United States Department of Agriculture, farmers have decreased soil erosion by 44 percent by using innovative methods and technology. In 2012 ICGA will promote voluntary water quality incentive programs and work to increase funding for conservation cost share which will help farmers introduce practices on their farms which will help to further reduce soil erosion and improve water quality. Support for Iowa’s Livestock Farmers The ICGA is committed to a healthy Iowa livestock industry and works with other farm groups to make sure that legislation affecting livestock production is responsible, reasonable and science based. Livestock is one of corn’s largest customer, and a healthy livestock industry is essential to the Iowa economy. ICGA Federal Legislative Priorities in 2012 Support for Ethanol With the expiration of the ethanol blender’s tax credit (VEETC) at the end of 2011, anti-ethanol groups have shifted their focus to the repeal of the Renewable Fuel Standard. The ICGA will continue to support corn-based ethanol as part of the RFS and our nation’s energy future. This also includes working to maintain funding for ethanol infrastructure on E-85 and blender pumps. Farm Bill The 2008 Farm Bill will expire next year, but the debate on the future of agriculture policy is already shaping up. Farmers have made it clear that maintaining the public-private partnership in crop insurance is the top priority in the farm bill to help manage risk. The ICGA will also be working to promote a revenue protection program, and funding for research, trade, and conservation. Environment Iowa farmers are environmental stewards while still producing the safest and least expensive food in the world. As the Environmental Protection Agency writes rules that will affect a producer’s bottom line, the ICGA will advocate for voluntary practices that result in a better environment. Agriculture’s message needs to be heard on many issues including climate change, pesticides, nutrients and dust. Tax The end of calendar year 2012 will bring with it the expiration of the many business tax cuts originally passed in 2003. Depreciation, capital gains, and estate tax reductions are all important to farm planning. The ICGA will work to make these tax cuts permanent or at the very least, to see them extended. Transportation Waterways infrastructure is a critical piece to support our export markets. The Water Resources Development Act of 2007 has never been funded and in that time we have seen our locks and dams continue to deteriorate. The ICGA will continue to advocate for inland waterways infrastructure funding to support not only agriculture, but jobs in rural economies.

That causes a laundry list of impacts and turns case
Leapsecond, August 9th, 2008 (blogger, The 59 Second Minute, “Worst Vegetable Award: Why Corn is Bad,” http://leapsecond.wordpress.com/2008/08/09/worst-vegetable-award/ >:)
As touched upon, corn is a master of making people inflate, and, consequently, gain weight. High Fructose Corn Syrup (HFCS from now on) is found in a multitude of foods that us Americans particularly enjoy — especially in the food of a fast food restaurants. HFCS is full of empty calories (meaning it has energy, but no other nutritional value like, but not limited to, amino acids and vitamins), and is commonly found in soft drinks and other junk foods that anyone with a sweet-tooth (like myself) enjoys. The USDA says that the America consumes about 50 pounds of HFCS per capita/year. 50 pounds a year! With all those empty calories, no wonder 1/3 of Americans are obese! The other, and more controversial reason for corn’s WVA, is its use in ethanol, a purported “clean” fuel. With growing demand for ethanol (because, for some reason, people want an easy, cleaner alternative for oil), there is a greater need to expand corn production to meet that demand. What happens? Deforestation occurs en masse (look up the effects of corn subsidies in the Amazon) and wheat farms get converted into corn since farmers will make more money off of it because of aforementioned high demand. The effects? The “environmentally friendly” effects of ethanol are rendered null by the loss of trees that were cut down to grow the corn in the first place, and wheat skyrockets in price. The higher price in wheat makes every wheat product grow in price, and, of course, with a higher price, it’s harder to attain them, so the poor who depend on wheat products may have to go hungry. Combined with a drought in Australia (massive wheat producer), bread, pasta, pastries, etc. are all more expensive. I should also add that because of ethanol, corn’s cost has tripled in the past 4 years. It follows that all kinds of food are more expensive just because of ethanol. So, for making our people fatter, cutting down trees, and making wheat more than double its cost, corn is the winner of my Worst Vegetable Award.

Food shocks now
ABC Rural 12 (“Food shock warning as global grain deteriorates,” July 24, 2012, http://www.abc.net.au/rural/content/2012/s3552099.htm)
It’s just a few years since vast parts of Australia emerged from a decade long drought, so the tales from the United States of wilting crops and ‘dust bowl’ paddocks are enough to bring to mind how devastating weather can be. As Australian farmers know, the repercussions of drought aren’t just the immediate weeks, but the months ahead when grain stocks around the world start to shrink and prices soar for feed and basic food supplies Already some experts are warning of a similar food crisis to that experienced in 2008 when riots in parts of South America, Africa and the Middle East demonstrated just how tenuous the global food situation was. In 2008 it was wheat and rice. In 2012 it’s corn and soybeans. As well, and perhaps the most critical factor, is that global grain stocks are at new lows and many countries have run down their reserves leaving little room to manoeuvre when it comes to grain imports. But as US farmers face their worse drought since 1956, a heat wave is also sweeping across Europe which accounts for around 16 per cent of global corn exports. India is also delaying sowing because of a late monsoon, with many states there also experiencing drought. More than half the United States is now in moderate, or worse drought. And the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Climate Prediction Centre is warning the drought is likely to continue into October. It’s also said the January-June half year was America’s hottest on record. It’s now expecting an El Nino pattern could develop by the end of the year, prolonging drought conditions. The big questions are how small will the crops be, and how high can grain prices go? Already the Chicago Board of Trade has set records for September delivered corn, while soybeans and wheat also surge. And while that’s good news for Australia’s wheat farmers amidst a high dollar, it’s bad news for those in livestock and food prices generally.

====2nc drought uq==== 

Drought now – guts solvency
Hibah Yousuf, July 18th, 2012 (CNN Money, “Your burger is about to get pricier,” http://money.cnn.com/2012/07/18/investing/corn-prices-food-inflation/index.htm >:)
NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- As the widespread drought continues to damage grain crops across the Midwest, consumers could soon be facing steeper bills at the grocery store. "We haven't seen any rain at all, and based on that, food inflation is definitely a real threat," said Phil Flynn, senior energy analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago. The dry, scorching heat has had the most severe impact on corn crops. Nearly 40% of the corn planted across the nation is in poor or very poor condition, compared to just 11% at this time last year, according to to the U.S. Department of Agriculture The drought and the fear that conditions could worsen, further pressuring crop yields, has triggered a 50% spike in the prices of corn futures over the past month to $7.79 per bushel. Related: Severe U.S. drought slams small businesses On average, food prices typically rise 1% overall for every 50% jump in corn prices, said Richard Volpe, an economist for the Economic Research Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, but particular categories of food are impacted more severely. Analysts and economists predict that prices of beef, pork and poultry will jump the most, as corn is the main feedstock for chicken, cattle and pigs. Prior to the drought, analysts had predicted a 4% to 6% rise in retail beef prices, said Michael Miller, senior vice president of global research for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. But if the drought lingers and the high cost of corn continues to weigh on farmers, consumers could face an increase as high as 10% for fresh protein at the grocery store, said Miller. That means beef prices could jump from an average of $4.35 per pound in 2011 to an average of nearly $4.80 per pound this year. Related: 6 best performing ETFs The true extent of the increases won't be known until the crops are harvested later this year, and prices won't jump overnight of course. In fact, consumers will likely face the trickle down effect toward the end of this year, and into the start of 2013, Miller added. "We're in one of those situations where everyone is watching the weather and corn prices from the edge of their seats," said Miller. "This is the first time in a long time that we've had a drought this significant in the Corn Belt, and that's why the market is so nervous." Weather experts aren't at all optimistic in their forecasts. According to AccuWeather.com senior meteorologist Alex Sosonowski, "the combination of too much hit and too little rain moving forward into the middle of August will prove to be too much for corn to take." While the price of meat and milk products will likely rise as a result of higher corn prices, other products, like a box of corn flakes, will remain relatively steady, according to the USDA's Economic Research Service, as prices for those types of foods are more heavily impacted by packaging, processing, advertising, and transportation. In fact, a 49% increase in corn prices only raises the price of a box of corn flakes by about 0.5%.

==eurofem review board neg== 
===black feminism=== 
====1nc black feminism==== 

Their exclusion and silence perpetuates White Supremacist policies in our tainted academic pool.
Carrie Crenshaw, Assistant Professor in the Department of Speech Communication, The University of Alabama, Summer 1997, “Resisting whiteness' rhetorical silence,” Western Journal of Communication 61.3, ebsco
In academic and political discourse, it is also rare for white people to explicitly reference their whiteness. The strictures of the "approved identity" in academic writing often prevent us from revealing our personal social locations and experiences (Blair, Brown and Baxter 402). Public political figures likewise avoid mentioning whiteness in their discourse (Nakayama and Krizek 297) even though the color of American politics is implicit in current debates about welfare, affirmative action, crime, and a host of other issues. Moreover, such discourse tends to ignore the ways in which race, gender, and class intersect with each other to perpetuate oppressive human hierarchies (Crenshaw, "Beyond"; Lorde). / Because discursive constructions of whiteness are typically unmarked and unnamed in personal, academic, and public discourse, they present a constellation of challenges for rhetorical scholars who are interested in the ideological role of whiteness in intersecting discourses about race, gender, and class. Previous rhetorical scholarship has focused on racist public discourse (e.g., Wander, "Salvation"; Wander, "The Savage"; Himelstein; Logue; Logue and Garner; Trank), but Nakayama and Krizek have recently taken our thinking a step further by mapping the terrain of whiteness. In a provocative study which names whiteness as a strategic rhetoric, they ethnographically "map" the "everyday" strategies of the spoken rhetoric of whiteness from a cultural studies perspective. They are "interested in ... the constructed space of whiteness, not the ways that it influences the margins" and "do[es] not address racism or racist ideology, although [they acknowledge that] these are closely aligned to many of the ways that whiteness is constructed" (306n). Their conclusion invites us to move beyond their initial topological project to investigate how the rhetoric of whiteness functions in the context of other social relations, particularly gender (303-305). In this essay, I accept their invitation and join the ongoing interdisciplinary conversation about whiteness (e.g., Allen; Dutcher; Dyer; Feagin and Vera; Frankenberg; Frye; Harris; hooks, Black; Mcintosh; Nakayama and Krizek; Roediger). Because whiteness and its intersections with gender and class are steeped in silence (hooks, Black; Mcintosh; Nakayama and Krizek), this essay argues that rhetoricians must do the critical ideological work necessary to make whiteness visible and overturn its silences for the purpose of resisting racism. / To do this, scholars must locate interactions that implicate unspoken issues of race, discursive spaces where the power of whiteness is invoked but its explicit terminology is not, and investigate how these racialized constructions intersect with gender and class. One such interaction was the debate between Carolyn Moseley Braun (D-IL) and Jesse Helms (R-NC) over the U.S. Senate's decision whether to grant a fourteen-year extension of the design patent for the United Daughters of the Confederacy (UDC) insignia. Because the UDC insignia contains a representation of the Confederate flag, the debate centered on whether a Senate approval of the patent would commend a charitable patriotic organization or commemorate an historical symbol of racism. Accounts of this debate were widely disseminated in the national news media and described Moseley Braun's argument as a dramatic history-making challenge to racism in the U.S. Senate (e.g., Clymer; Lee; McGrory). "For once Senators changed their minds. Things that are usually decided in the cloakroom, were settled on the floor in plain sight" (McGrory A2). Helms spoke first and Moseley Braun responded. After Helms' second speech, the motion to table the amendment was rejected 52 to 48. However, Moseley Braun was ultimately victorious; after her final speech, the patent extension was denied on a 75 to 25 vote. / This debate is a uniquely interesting rhetorical artifact because it was a direct and public clash of arguments about race in political discourse. It constitutes an important example of how two public political actors' discourse about race and how the personal dimensions of race, gender, and class entered into their public argument. In the next section, I argue that ideological rhetorical criticism is an appropriate avenue for analyzing interactions like this one. / Ideological Rhetorical Criticism / There is nothing essential, "natural," or biological about whiteness. Because the overwhelming unity of our genetic makeup swamps any human differences that have historically been attributed to race (Appiah 21; Shipman 269), race itself has been called a biological fiction (Gates 4). It is the historically located rhetorical meaning of whiteness that assigns it social worth (Nakayama and Krizek 292). / Whiteness functions ideologically when people employ it, consciously or unconsciously, as a framework to categorize people and understand their social locations. Within this framework, whiteness as a social position has value and has been treated legally as property (Bell; Crenshaw "Race"; Feagin and Vera; Harris). The term "white privilege" denotes a host of material advantages white people enjoy as a result of being socially and rhetorically located as a white person (Crenshaw, "Race"; Mcintosh; Wellman). Even though many white people sense that privilege accompanies whiteness (Feagin and Vera), they do not overtly acknowledge their white privilege because they think of themselves as average, morally neutral non-racists. They do not see racism as an ideology that protects the interests of all white people; rather, they envision racism in the form of white hooded Klansmen engaged in acts of racial hatred (Mcintosh 34; Ezekiel 1). Because this ideology can be produced and reproduced through spoken discourse (van Dijk; Goldberg), whiteness and its privilege have both ideological and rhetorical dimensions. / Ideological rhetorical criticism reveals the vested interests protected by a particular rhetorical framework for understanding social order. It assists the search for alternatives to oppression and enables us to engage in right action for good reasons (Wander, "The Ideological" 2, 18). While cultural and ethnographic approaches that name the complexities of our racialized social locations make the rhetoric of whiteness visible and displace its centrality (Nakayama and Krizek), an ideological approach helps to uncover the alliance between the submerged or silent rhetoric of whiteness and white material privilege. Ideological rhetorical criticism reveals how the public political rhetoric of whiteness relies upon a silent denial of white privilege to rationalize judicial, legislative, and executive decisions that protect the material interests of white people at the expense of people of color.[ 3] Beyond the realm of "everyday" discourse, public political actors often engage a submerged or silent rhetoric of whiteness to protect white privilege, and their arguments are authorized by the powerful institutions from which they speak. Those authorized arguments in turn sanction the rhetorical frameworks through which white individuals make sense of and justify their privileged social status (van Dijk; Wellman). / Stuart Hall's work is useful for grasping the rhetorical nature of ideology in general and racist ideologies in specific. He defines ideology as "those images, concepts and premises which provide the frameworks through which we represent, interpret, understand and 'make sense' of some aspect of social existence" ("The Whites" 18). Ideological struggles are struggles over meaning. Meaning is a social production, a practice of making the world mean something, and this meaning is produced through language. Language is not a synonym for ideology because the same terms can be used in very different ideological discourses. However, language is the principle medium of ideologies, and ideologies are sets or chains of meaning located in language ("The Rediscovery" 67, 81; "The Whites" 18). / These chains of meaning are not the products of individual intention even though they are statements made by individuals. Instead, intentions are formed within pre-existing ideologies because individuals are born into them. Ideologies live within what we take-for-granted. They exist in our assumptions and descriptive statements about how the world is. "Ideologies tend to disappear from view into the taken-for-granted 'naturalised' world of common sense. Since (like gender) race appears to be 'given' by Nature, racism is one of the most profoundly 'naturalised' of existing ideologies" (Hall, "The Whites" 19). / To understand how racist ideologies operate, Hall draws upon the work of Antonio Gramsci. While Gramsci did not explicitly theorize about race, he did investigate the ideological and cultural implications of region and nation. Hall embraces Gramsci's argument that ideologies function hegemonically to preserve powerful interests. That is to say, ideologies are taken-for-granted frameworks that naturalize our descriptions of the way the world is, including its current power structures. This power is not achieved solely by coercive might; it also operates through the consent of those who are subjugated. Hegemony is the production of consent that determines what is taken-for-granted. So, our taken-for-granted, naturalized assumptions of what makes common sense produce and reinforce our consent to the current social order and its power structures. The advantage of Gramsci's position is that it makes room for an oppositional consciousness because it recognizes that hegemony is historically contingent. Because hegemony is never stable and is always an ongoing and fluid process of gaining consent, social transformation through the critical examination of current relations of power is possible. / Following Gramsci, Hall also believes that it is essential to analyze the historical specificity of racist ideologies in a non-reductive manner. He rejects the gross form of economism in which everything is seen to be determined by class structures, and instead he highlights the need to understand and conceptualize other oppressive forms of social differentiation including culture, region, nationality, and ethnicity. Doing so enables a productive reconceptualization of the "class subject." The class subject is not homogenous; there is never simple unity among people said to be of the same "class." Rather, hegemony is a dynamic process of the production of consent within and between different sectors and segments within classes. Thus, Gramsci's work can help us to understand how race and class intersect. We need not accept the false choice between class based explanations and race based explanations. In addition, Hall argues that Gramsci's notion of hegemony helps us to understand one of the most common, least explained features of 'racism': the 'subjection' of the victims of racism to the mystifications of the very racist ideologies which imprison and define them. He reveals how different, often contradictory elements can be woven into and integrated within different ideological discourses; but also, the nature and value of ideological struggle which seeks to transform popular ideas and the 'common sense' of the masses. All of this has the most profound importance for the analysis of racist ideologies and for the centrality, within that, of ideological struggle. ("Gramsci's" 440) / A critical ideological approach to racialized discourse reveals the ongoing struggle over the meaning of race. It makes room for oppositional consciousness by helping us to "see" the meaning of racialized constructions and the vested interests they protect so that we can contest them. In addition, as the following analysis of the Braun-Helms debate illustrates, it enables our understanding of the intersections among racialized, gendered, and class discourses.

Public discourse on gender is spoken through the voices of whites. DIRECT REFLECTION of SEXIST and RACIST thinking representing gender as WHITE TURF has invoked a cultural REFUSAL to listen to and legitimize minorities speaking on the politics of GENDER. The aff victimizes Eastern women and place Western Feminists as inherently better.
Ansari 8 (Usamah, graduate student in Sociology at York University “‘‘Should I Go and Pull Her Burqa Off?’’: Feminist Compulsions, Insider Consent, and a Return to Kandahar” Routledge group pg 51-52)AQB
That the oppression of women was sold as a central reason for needing to topple the Taliban (Kolhatkar & Ingalls, 2006) also reveals that Orientalist imaginations are gendered. Indeed, the type of developmentalist intervention that Orientalism furthers is often predicated on helping women. Western feminism has not only been complicit in the Orientalist constitution of the non-Western woman as inherently victimized and in need of help, it has also constructed a Western feminist subject position in contrast to it. Western feminism has often produced a supposedly universally analyzable and monolithic ‘‘Third World Woman’’ who is bound to tradition and domesticity (Mohanty, 1991, p. 80). In contrast, Western women are portrayed as ‘‘educated, as modern, as having control over their own bodies and sexualities’’ (Mohanty, 1991, p. 85). We see how Orientalist notions of modernity, autonomy, and liberty are coded in gendered ways and we can recognize how they invite intervention, as Third World women have ‘‘needs and wants’’ but never solutions, choices, or agency (Mohanty, 1991, p. 83).

The alternative is to endorse the stance of black feminism – intersectionality is key to solvency which means only the alt can solve
BFF No Date (BLACK FILMMAKERS FOUNDATION (BFF).is a product of the political and artistic consciousness that developed in the early 1970s. It was founded as an organization to redress the institutional disenfranchisement of black filmmakers and black audiences, “Black Feminism in the United States,” http://encyclopedia.jrank.org/articles/pages/6005/Black-Feminism-in-the-United-States.html ;)
A major sociological issue in any analysis of race and racism is the absence of a gender lens in race studies. This may seem surprising in the early twenty-first century in the wake of the growth and development of the feminisms of women of color in general and black feminist theorizing in particular. Nonetheless, the attempt to fully integrate gender and class into studies of race and racism remains incomplete. Yet the effort to transform studies of race and racism to reflect a complex matrix of inequalities continues. For at least two decades the absence of embedding race and racism relationally and interrelationally with gender, class, and sexuality has been challenged by black feminist thinkers and activists in the United States. Thus, black feminist thinkers have played a major role in recentering our understanding of race through an intersectional analysis: gender, sexuality, race, and class. Indeed, capitalist patriarchy profoundly shapes male/female relations generally, but it operates in the context of racism and white supremacy. This fundamental idea is at the core of black feminist thinking. Black feminist E. Frances White (2001) points out that in the race-centered political stances found in black nationalism, a gender-centered analysis is often not visible. This erasure of gender among black men is matched by the erasure of race in white feminism. As White asserts, neither of these approaches is analytically sound and both need to be rethought. In short, black women are rendered invisible in such either/or approaches. Another signature move in the theory and practice of black feminism is placing black women at the center of analyses of race and racism. By theorizing from the bottom up, that is, through the everyday lives of African-American women and from the top down by analyzing social structure and political economy, the explication of the interplay between agency and social structure is central to black feminist theory and practice. Moreover, running through black feminist analyses is the principle of what Gloria Hull, Patricia Bell-Scott, and Barbara Smith, in their 1982 book, call “the simultaneity of oppression.” These systems of inequality are in play at the same time but must be viewed in historical context. Race, for example, operates as a master signifier in a white supremacist society such as the United States, but not without being deeply shaped by class and gender. This is the conceptual underpinning of much of black feminist conceptualizations of African-American life. The black feminist sociologist Deborah King (1988) calls attention to the multiplicative effects of race, class, and gender. These are not simply in additive relationship to one another (race + class + gender); these systems forcefully shape one another. Her work critiques additive thinking, parallelist tendencies, and oppositional dualistic thinking found in Western European intellectual thought. Gender must be articulated and theorized in the context of race and racism. This is a point largely absent from the “race alone” analyses of racism. Black feminism is also rooted in a relational framework. This idea of relationality can be thought about in the context of the gendered, racialized, and class histories of peoples of color. These interrelated histories cannot be written strictly as comparative narratives. The issue is how deeply dependent and interconnected these legacies are. Indeed, the decisions and actions regarding the history of Asians, for example, is connected and informed by the decisions and actions regarding Africans, Native Americans, Europeans, and Latinos/Chicanos. Race, for example, is called into being simultaneously around the making of whiteness and the othering of so-called “non-whites.” This fundamental ideological rationalization for exploitation takes on a number of dimensions. Certainly the centrality of blackness and “absolute inferiority” of Africans, as was argued by racist scientists, conditions the way other groups are thought about in relationship to “whites.” Whiteness is made as are these other identities. Race is called into being in deep relationality to the expropriation of labor, enslavement, land theft, and the making of empire. The gender dynamic must be considered in these histories. If white maleness represented the height of the “Great Chain of Being,” as Anne McClintock contends (1995), women of all groups were inferiorized and black, brown, and yellow men were feminized. Black women were masculinized and sexualized; and Asian women were sexualized and exploited. Latinas were sexualized as well as exploited as workhorses. Native women were sexualized and killed. These stories have to be thought about in relationship[s] to the issues of labor and land as well as the deep intersectionality of race, class, and gender in these interconnected histories. Most critically, black feminist theoretical moves are grounded explicitly in the black cultural experience in the United States and go beyond the simple inclusion of black feminist thought in white feminist sociology. This is the thanks that black feminists give to black nationalism, even in the wake of its gender problem. The power of representation and self-definition is a key theme in black nationalism, and these important ideas have certainly influenced black feminist thinkers. Analysts like White (2001) understand that race is deeply embedded in gender and class in the United States. Oyuranke Oyewumi (2005) contends that a feminist framework, rooted in white privilege and power, too often imposes a conceptual logic on black women that distorts or mis-represents that experience. In sum, what is central about black feminism in the United States is its rootedness in the articulation of multiplicity, intersectionalities, relationality, and the simultaneity of oppressions. This intellectual frame not only challenges traditional studies of race and racism but a range of existing frameworks in sociology, women’s studies, ethnic studies, and other disciplines that treat these inequalities in analytical isolation. Patricia Hill Collins (1986), for example, defines the disciplinary liability of dichotomous oppositional thinking. Upon this epistemological assumption is built the categories “white” over “black,” “male” over “female,” and all other hierarchies of oppression. An intellectual agenda that draws on the both/and cultural traditions of African-American women represents a healthy transformation of Eurocentric epistemologies. Nonetheless, conflict around the meaning of black feminism is evident. The philosophical splintering on meaning runs the gamut from a mild form of feminism that weakly chastises men for sexism, placing a strong emphasis on the significance of complementarity in African life, to womanism in its various expressions. Complementarity and Africana womanist articulations of the gender dynamic in black life are rooted in more conventional black nationalist notions of womanhood. Some versions of womanism, such as that of Clenora Hudson-Weems (1998), locate it deeply in African principles rather than white European women’s so-called culturally saturated feminism. This Afrocentric feminist perspective places itself squarely in a framework articulating the centrality of African culture, especially the principles of complementarity, self-determination, self-definition, and race first. These ideas coincide, of course, with the basic tenets of cultural nationalism. Whatever the philosophical bent, black women’s feminist or proto-feminist organizations have defined themselves broadly. Organizations such as Combahee River Collective stressed the simultaneity of oppressions: race, class, gender, sexism, and hetereosexism. Black feminists have called to task and criticized analyses that miss the powerful interplay of gender, race, and class. Their inventions have implications for the way the social sciences conceive of race. Most important, black feminist interventions have influenced the way black life in the United States is conceptualized. At the center of black feminist thinking in the academy are the following questions: Where are the black women in scholarly analyses? How might one shift the center of much of the disciplinary scholarship locating the nexus of race, class, and gender as organizing frames in the production of knowledge? How do we render visible the history of lived experiences of black men and women in Africa and the African diaspora? African feminist centered knowledge(s) underpin a good deal of the current critique of black feminist thought in the United States. Oyewumi (2005) locates African thought and culture in knowledge reconstitution. She challenges through her cultural lenses the body logic of Western gender frames. Finally, a queer color critique has developed in the innovative work of scholars such as Roderick Ferguson (2004). Ferguson draws deeply on black feminist thinking while simultaneously challenging the embrace of the hetereonormative in sociological theorizing. The influence of black feminist thinking appears to be shaping the scholarship of those analysts who do not explicitly define themselves as black feminists. They seem to be somewhat more attuned to gender and race as interlocking realities in studies of race (for example, see the 2000 work of Joe Feagin, Racist America ). Also worth noting is the recognition that black feminists in the academy, such as Angela Davis (1981), give to black women’s activism and everyday lived experiences in the development of black feminist thought. As evidenced by Beverly Guy-Sheftall’s 1995 anthology, this knowledge has begun to be systematically incorporated into the social sciences and humanities. Black feminist scholarship has affected the arts, humanities, history, social sciences, black studies, and health sciences, among other fields. Yet some questions still remain: Whose interests are served by black women’s scholarship within the academy? How might these scholars balance social responsibility with career imperatives? Studies in established university and research settings are centered in issues of power and inequality. Even so, the case can be made that African-American women have forged a resistive, self-defined, even sometimes feminist identity in the academy. Even before black feminism’s visibility in the halls of academe, there was a long history of black women acting along both gender and race lines. Racially conscious women such as Anna J. Cooper and Ida B. Wells-Barnett were active in race and gender struggles at the turn of the twentieth century and into its early years. The power of representation and self-definition is a key theme in black feminism, and these important ideas have certainly influenced the way social scientists have begun to rethink African-American agency. Yet the difficulties of understanding multiplicity within black communities, cross-cut by age, region, ethnicity, and class, are not resolved. Nevertheless, black feminists have placed gender at the center of race and class analyses. This intervention is changing the way race is being conceptualized and the way black life and thought are being imagined through the intersectional frames of black feminism.

====2nc top-level==== 

Opposing racism is the precondition to moral coherence.
Albert Memmi, 2000, Racism, p. 159-161
Evidently, I am a moderate optimist. The struggle against racism will be long and probably never totally successful. Humans [Vhomme] being what they are, one cannot for the moment hope for a total end to racist behavior. Even mixed marriage is not a remedy; the example of Brazil is hardly encouraging. There, rather than disappear, racism has created a more complex color hierarchy. In the Caribbean, social classes correspond to a scale of colors. It is as if racism can always find, in each case, the tactic or machination that will work.21 / But yet, humans being what they are, the job can and should be undertaken. People are both angels and beasts; the angel must be assisted in prevailing over the beast. Or, more prosaically, reciprocal dependence must be strengthened as the foundation of the social bond. Whatever the importance of a conflict between individuals or groups, the relative stability of social structures confirms a reciprocal need to engender an inclusive common law of life. Racism represents precisely the inverse process, since it is a temptation to exclude and the legitimation of exclusion. / The pessimist will object that this is pure rhetoric designed to repackage the same old conduct. But even rhetorical effort is not wasted. Beyond its perversity, the racist discourse is a defense mechanism [plaidoyer] and an alibi. But every search for an alibi also contains within it an implicit recognition of the law. Racism is a structure of aggression that claims, and is given, a presupposed rationality. This pretense is the sign of its cunning and its false assertion of its own humanity. That is why no one wishes to own up to being racist; no one wishes to consent, in their heart, to renounce all humanity. The most hardened racists at least have one ear that hears, a port directly connected to that part of themselves that does not totally approve of iniquity and oppression. The mania and the horror of Nazism comes from what it had renounced of all legitimization, that it had made racism a philosophy if not a total conception of humanity. / Is that all there is? The infinite task before us can be discouraging in that it must always be begun again. Up to now, all peace has only been a truce between two wars, yet still we hope and long for peace. Health is fragile, and death is always in the offing, yet still we struggle to keep ourselves in good health. The struggle against racism is the condition of our collective social health. It encompasses the fundamental moral discussions of love or hate of the other, of justice or injustice, equality or oppression, or, in a word, one's very humanity. The essence of morality is respect for the other. Our honor as humans will be to construct a more human world. In the meanwhile, so that even animals may some day find a world of peace and security, let us act so that no one is any longer treated like a beast.

====2nc reform link==== 

The affirmative engages in a White man’s game. Reformism and civil liberties come at a cost. They are a zero-sum game that is a give and a take, blanketing the system of oppression as potentially harmless.
Tansy Woan, 2011, Master of Arts in Philosophy, Politics, and Law in the Graduate School of Binghamton University, “THE VALUE OF RESISTANCE IN A PERMANENTLY WHITE, CIVIL SOCIETY,” http://gradworks.umi.com/14/96/1496586.html, p. 9-15
Stokely Carmichael and Charles V. Hamilton, in then influential Black Power, describe reformist strategies as "playing ball" with the white man. They argue that reform plays the white man's game in order to gain rights, i.e. appeal to a white supremacist government that is the precise agent responsible for the original harms they are seeking to alleviate.9 While this may very well result in the granting of new rights previously denied, it maintains a hierarchical system between whites and nonwhites, since the latter will have to continue to appeal to the former to ask for rights they never should have been denied in the first place. This places the former in a position of power to accept or deny such requests. Thus, in Carmichael and Hamilton's view, attempting to resist white supremacy by working within white supremacist institutions maintains a dangerous system of power relations that lock in place the hierarchy between whites and nonwhites.

====2nc ruckus collective / at: ecofeminism==== 

Focusing on white supremacy is the best starting point. Ecological focus fails to create at revolutionary political movement
Ruckus Collective- Phoenix, 2001- http://www.anarchistnews.org/?q=node/8838
The central task of a new organization should be to break up this unholy alliance between the ruling class and the white working class by attacking the system of white privilege and the subordination of people of color. This is not to say that white supremacy is the "worst" form of oppression in this country, nor is it to imply that if white supremacy disappears then all other forms of oppression will magically melt away. Instead, it is a strategic argument, based on an analysis of U.S. history, designed to attack the American death star at its weakest point. The glue that has kept the American state together has been white supremacy; melting that glue creates revolutionary possibilities. Against the State The proposed organization should be anti-statist. The function of the state is to 1) perpetuate the rule of the oppressing class and 2) maintain its own power. It therefore has nothing to do with a free society and should be abolished. A revolutionary strategy seeks to undermine the state by developing a dual power strategy. A dual power strategy is one that directly challenges institutions of power and at the same time, in some way, prefigures the new institutions we envision. A dual power strategy not only opposes the state, it also prepares us for the difficult questions that will arise in a revolutionary situation. The organization should also support the principle of self-determination, or the right for people to control their own life and destiny. Movements for self-determination have often assumed the politics of nationalism. Anarchists have traditionally rejected nationalism as a tool of oppression. We recognize that anti-statism and nationalism are often contradictory tendencies, since nationalism often supports the creation of nation-states. However, nationalism has also been a liberating force in world history, particularly in the struggle against colonialism. Thus, despite its contradictions nationalist struggles cannot be rejected out of hand by anti-authoritarian revolutionaries. The task is to develop anti-statist tendencies within nationalist movements, not to denounce the struggles of oppressed peoples because they assume a nationalist form. A Feminist Organization Any new organization should be explicitly feminist, in several ways. First, a revolutionary organization should have a radical feminist analysis of our society that challenges male dominance, compulsory heterosexuality, and the bipolar gender system that forces humans into "male" and "female" and "masculine" and "feminine" categories. Second, its internal operations (organizing structure, allocation of positions of leadership, meeting procedures, debating habits, etc.) should ensure women's participation and be strongly aware of practices that tend to favor men's voices over women's. Third, it should be committed to feminist political work, particularly those kinds of agitation that connect struggles against sexism with struggles against white supremacy. Finally, a revolutionary organization needs a feminist vision. It should imagine a world not only without sexism or homophobia but one in which gender relations are completely transformed. Toward this end, it should encourage resistance to masculine/feminine gender borders and encourage people to critique and explore their desires rather than repress them. Strategy The proposed federation should recognize that political theory, no matter how strong, can accomplish little if it is not combined with effective strategy. The actions taken by the organization, its involvement in mass movements, and its public statements should all be determined on a strategic basis. The focus of our work should be involving ourselves in movements and activism where there is the potential to work toward the building of a dual power. Social reforms won by progressive movements may be important, but if they do not work toward a dual power they are not the concerns of a revolutionary organization. For example, animal liberation is a worthy cause. However, it is difficult to imagine how a campaign for animal liberation could threaten state power and foreshadow a new society. Thus, while a revolutionary organization may applaud animal liberation activities, it would not devote energy toward animal rights. On the other hand, a program to develop local Copwatch chapters could represent a dual power strategy, since monitoring the police undermines state power by disrupting the cops' ability to enforce class and color lines and also foreshadows a new society in which ordinary people take responsibility for ensuring the safety of their communities. Thus, campaigns developed by the organization that do not contribute toward the building of a dual power should be abandoned. If a popular protest movement has little hope of building a dual power, it is not one we should be collectively involved in. We may morally and politically approve of such movements but as a small group with limited resources, we must reject the liberalism of reform activism and concern ourselves with revolutionary strategy.

====at: conditionality unethical==== 

Unconditionality is worse – maintaining a static plan of attack allows for the state to beat us down – we have to be constantly engaging in different types of political strategies to combat dominant ideology
Goddard in '06 (July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”;http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm)
What this type of radio achieved most of all was the short-circuiting of representation in both the aesthetic sense of representing the social realities they dealt with and in the political sense of the delegate or the authorised spokesperson, in favour of generating a space of direct communication in which, as Guattari put it, “it is as if, in some immense, permanent meeting place—given the size of the potential audience—anyone, even the most hesitant, even those with the weakest voices, suddenly have the possibility of expressing themselves whenever they wanted. In these conditions, one can expect certain truths to find a new matter of expression.” In this sense, Radio Alice was also an intervention into the language of media; the transformation from what Guattari calls the police languages of the managerial milieu and the University to a direct language of desire: “direct speech, living speech, full of confidence, but also hesitation, contradiction, indeed even absurdity, is charged with desire. And it is always this aspect of desire that spokespeople, commentators and beaureaucrats of every stamp tend to reduce, to filter. [...] Languages of desire invent new means and tend to lead straight to action; they begin by ‘touching,’ by provoking laughter, by moving people, and then they make people want to ‘move out,’ towards those who speak and toward those stakes of concern to them.” It is this activating dimension of popular free radio that most distinguishes it from the usual pacifying operations of the mass media and that also posed the greatest threat to the authorities; if people were just sitting at home listening to strange political broadcasts, or being urged to participate in conventional, organised political actions such as demonstrations that would be tolerable but once you start mobilising a massive and unpredictable political affectivity and subjectivation that is autonomous, self-referential and self-reinforcing, then this is a cause for panic on the part of the forces of social order, as was amply demonstrated in Bologna in 1977. Finally, in the much more poetic and manifesto-like preface with which Guattari introduces the translation of texts and documents form Radio Alice, he comes to a conclusion which can perhaps stand as an embryonic formula for the emergence of the post-media era as anticipated by Radio Alice and the Autonomia movement more generally: In Bologna and Rome, the thresholds of a revolution without any relation to the ones that have overturned history up until today have been illuminated, a revolution that will throw out not only capitalist regimes but also the bastions of beaureaucratic socialism [...] , a revolution, the fronts of which will perhaps embrace entire continents but which will also be concentrated sometimes on a specific neighbourhood, a factory, a school. Its wagers concern just as much the great economic and technological choices as attitudes, relations to the world and singularities of desire. Bosses, police officers, politicians, beuareaucrats, professors and psycho-analysts will in vain conjugate their efforts to stop it, channel it, recuperate it, they will in vain sophisticate, diversify and miniaturise their weapons to the infinite, they will no longer succede in gathering up the immense movement of flight and the multitude of molecular mutations of desire that it has already unleashed. The police have liquidated Alice—its animators are hunted, condemned, imprisoned, their sites are pillaged—but its work of revolutionary deterritorialisation is pursued ineluctably right up to the nervous fibres of its persecutors.” This is because the revolution unleashed by Alice was not reducible to a political or media form but was rather an explosion of mutant desire capable of infecting the entire social field because of its slippery ungraspability and irreducibility to existing sociopolitical categories. It leaves the forces of order scratching their heads because they don’t know where the crack-up is coming from since it doesn’t rely on pre-existing identities or even express a future programme but rather only expresses immanently its own movement of auto-referential self-constitution, the proliferation of desires capable of resonating even with the forces of order themselves which now have to police not only these dangerous outsiders but also their own desires. This shift from fixed political subjectivities and a specified programme is the key to the transformation to a post-political politics and indeed to a post-media era in that politics becomes an unpredictable, immanent process of becoming rather than the fulfilment of a transcendental narrative. In today’s political language one could say that what counts is the pure potential that another world is possible and the movement towards it rather than speculation as to how that world will be organised. As Guattari concludes: “ The point of view of the Alicians on this question is the following: they consider that the movement that arrives at destroying the gigantic capitalist-beaureaucratic machine will be, a fortiori, completely capable of constructing an other world—the collective competence in the matter will come to it in the course of the journey, without it being necessary, at the present stage to outline projections of societal change.”

===standpoint epistemology advantage=== 
====1nc standpoint epistemology f/l==== 

They reinforce the gender binary between mind and body by rolepolaying as the state – turns the aff.
Pierre Schlag, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 1991, “Normativity and the Politics of Form,” Lexis-Nexis
Against this backdrop of bureaucratic power games, it becomes an interesting question just what all of our passionate and very moral normative conversation does or does not contribute. Against the backdrop of this power game of law, our normative conversation can seem exceedingly polite-given to a rather unbelievable romanticization of the enterprise we call "law." Many legal thinkers understand this dramatic conflict in terms of an opposition between the "realities" of practice and the "ideals" of the legal academy. For these legal thinkers, it will seem especially urgent to ask once again: 'What should be done? How should we live? What should the law be? These are the hard questions. These are the momentous questions. And they are the wrong ones. They are wrong because it is these very normative questions that reprieve legal thinkers from recognizing the extent to which the cherished "ideals" of legal academic thought are implicated in the reproduction and maintenance of precisely those ugly "realities" of legal practice the academy so routinely condemns. It is these normative questions that allow legal thinkers to shield themselves from the recognition that their work product consists largely of the reproduction of rhetorical structures by which human beings can be coerced into achieving ends of dubious social origin and implication. It is these very normative questions that allow legal academics to continue to address (rather lamely) bureaucratic power structures as if they were rational, morally competent, individual humanist subjects. It is these very normative questions that allow legal thinkers to assume blithely that – in a world ruled by HMOs, personnel policies, standard operating procedures, performance requirements, standard work incentives, and productivity monitoring – they somehow have escaped the bureaucratic power games. It is these normative questions that enable them to represent themselves as whole and intact, as self-directing individual liberal humanist subjects at once rational, morally competent, and in control of their own situations, the captain of their own ships, the Hercules of their own empires, the author of their own texts. It isn't so.5 And if it isn't so, it would seem advisable to make some adjustments in the agenda and practice of legal thought. That is what I will be trying to do here. Much of what follows will no doubt seem threatening or nihilistic to many readers. In part that is because this article puts in question the very coherence, meaningfulness, and integrity of the kinds of normative disputes and discussion that almost all of us in the legal academy practice. One question will no doubt recur to the reader throughout this article: "But what should we do?" That question is not going to receive a straightforward answer here, and I would like to explain why at the outset. Suppose that you are walking on a road and you come to a fork. This calls for a decision, for a choice. So you ask your companions: "Which fork should we take? Where should we go?" You all begin to talk about it, to consider the possibilities, to weigh the considerations. Given these circumstances, given this sort of problem, the questions, "Where should we go? What should we do?" are perfectly sensible.6 But now suppose that it gets dark and the terrain becomes less familiar. You are no longer sure which road you are on or even if you are on a road at all.7 So you ask, "where are we?" One of your companions says "I don't know-I think we should just keep going forward." Another one says, "I think we should just go back." Yet another says "No, I think we should go left." Now given the right context, each of these suggestions can be perfectly sensible. But not in this context. Not anymore. On the contrary, you know very well that going forward, backward, left or in any other direction makes no sense unless you happen to know where you are. So, of course, you try to figure out where you are. You look around for telltale signs. You scan the horizon. You try to reconstruct mentally how you got here in the first place. You explore. You even start thinking about how to figure out where you are. Meanwhile, if your companions keep asking "But what should we do? Which road should we take?," you are likely to think that these kinds of questions are not particularly helpful. The questions (Where should we go? Which fork should we take?) that seemed to make so much sense a short time back have now become a hindrance. And if your companions keep up this sort of questioning (Which road should we take? Which way should we go?), you're going to start wondering about how to get them to focus on the new situation, how to get them to drop this "fork in the road" stuff and Now one metaphor that recurs throughout this essay is that of the theater.9 Now, you might reasonably think that it's a bit difficult to get from the "fork in the road" metaphor of normative legal thought to the metaphor of law as theater. But actually, it's not that difficult-especially not if you understand at the outset that those individuals who keep saying "Where should we go? What should we do?" are themselves already doing a kind of theater. They are engaged in a particular kind of dramatic action appropriate for a particular kind of scene, agon, and actors. They are doing the kind of theater that is particularly appropriate for forks in the road. Now, one problem with normative legal thought is that it is constantly representing our situation as a fork in the road-calling, of course, for a choice, a commitment to this way or that way. Now, you might think: well, this is not so bad. At least we get to choose. We are free and we can choose which way to go. But, of course, we are not free. The rhetorical script of normative legal thought is already written, the social scene is already set and play after play, article after article, year after year, normative legal thought requires you to choose: "What should we do? Where should we go?" We are free, but we must choose-which is to say that we are not free at all. On the contrary, we (you and I) have been constituted as the kind of beings, the kind of thinkers who compulsively treat every intellectual, social, or legal event as calling for a choice. We must choose. What should we do? Where should we go? These questions are not helpful now. It's time to do a different kind of theater. And the first thing to do is figure out where we are and what we're doing. What we're doing, of course, is normative legal thought. I. (VIRTUALLY) ALWAYS AND ALREADY NORMATIVE The orientation of American academic legal thought is pervasively and overwhelmingly normative. For the legal thinker, the central question is "what should the law be?" Or, "what should the courts do?" Or, "how should courts decide cases?" Or, "what values should the ubiquitous (and largely non-referential) 'we' (i.e., us) believe?" Or, "how should...." These questions and their doctrinal derivatives constitute, organize, and circumscribe the tacit agenda of contemporary legal thought. The key verb dominating contemporary legal thought is some version of "should." Sometimes this "should" does not quite rise to the moral "ought," and remains merely an instrumental, technical, or prudential "should." Sometimes it is a covert "should"-hidden beneath layers of legal positivism. But the fact remains that "shoulds" and "oughts" dominate legal discourse. And the question of whether any given "should" is a true moral "ought" or another instrumental "should" turns out to be just another internecine squabble among competing normative perspectives. The normative orientation is so dominant in legal thought that it is usually not noticed. No doubt the very pervasiveness and dominance of this thought has enabled it to escape conscious thematization.11 Indeed, while the concept "normative legal thought" is hardly unknown or unintelligible to American legal thinkers, its precise significance, its precise movements in social or intellectual space, remain largely unrecognized and undetermined. Indeed, the understanding (or rather understandings) of normative legal thought within the legal academy are not nearly as refined or contested as the understandings, for instance, of legal formalism, legal realism, legal process, law and economics, critical legal studies (cls), or the like. Nonetheless, normative legal thought does not arrive on this scene without meaning, without a history. On the contrary, normative legal thought arrives an already loaded term-one that has already been engaged in jurisprudential skirmishes with conceptualism, positivism, and nihilism. Indeed, our image of normative legal thought is already a product of some cognitively and professionally sedimented distinctions12 between normative legal thought and: (a) descriptive thought (as in, for instance, the opposition between descriptive and normative law and economics);13 (b) conceptualism (as in, for instance, the claim that normative legal thought is value-conscious, open-ended, and nonauthoritarian in contrast to conceptualism);14 or (c) nihilism (as in, for instance, the claim that either law is a normatively meaningful enterprise or we face the abyss of a bleak and chaotic nihilism).15 These distinctions and the patterns of argument structures associated with these distinctions have played significant roles in fashioning our pre-conscious, pre-reflective understanding of the character and location of normative legal thought. It is important to attend to these pre-reflective understandings lest they shape our conceptualization of normative legal thought in ways that turn out to be unhelpful. We want to avoid as much as possible "positing" a model or "proposing" a definition of normative legal thought. For us, then, normative legal thought is already a social construction, already having meaning and significance. We want to reveal our own sedimented, pre-reflective images and conceptualizations of normative legal thought so that in the process of revealing, we might learn something about how these pre-reflective conceptualizations will help or hinder the inquiry undertaken here. Indeed, it will turn out that our pre-reflective images and conceptualizations of normative legal thought in some senses help and in others obstruct our attempts to understand normative legal thought. They help in the! sense that they are socially and cognitively operative among legal thinkers and thus allow us to get some shared "fix" on what we mean by normative legal thought. At the same time these images and conceptualizations are unhelpful because once we make their argumentative logic intellectually explicit, they collapse.

====2nc delgado impact==== 

This independently desensitizes us to real-world suffering as people outside of debate.
Richard Delgado, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 1991, “Norms and Normal Science,” Lexis-Nexis
But what is the cash value of all this priest-talk in the law reviews, in the classrooms of at least the "better" schools, and in the opinions of at least some judges? Are normativos better than other people? Are we better off for engaging in normative talk, either as speakers or listeners? Pierre Schlag, for example, has described normativity as a zero – as a vacuous, self-referential system of talk, all [*954] form and no substance, meaning nothing, and about itself. n82 This description may be too generous. Normativity may be more than a harmless tic prevalent only in certain circles. 1. Permission to Ignore Suffering The history of organized religion shows that intense immersion in at least certain types of normative system is no guarantee against cruelty, intolerance or superstition. n83 In modern times, social scientists have tried to find a correlation between religious belief and altruistic behavior. In most studies, the correlation is nonexistent or negative. In one study, seminary students were observed as they walked past a well-dressed man lying moaning on the sidewalk. n84 Most ignored the man, even though they had just heard a sermon about the Good Samaritan. The proportion who stopped to offer aid was lower than that of passersby in general. The researchers, commenting on this and other studies of religion and helping behavior, hypothesized that religious people feel less need to act because of a sense that they are "chosen" people. n85 I believe this anesthetizing effect extends beyond religion. We confront a starving beggar and immediately translate the concrete duty we feel into a normative (i.e., abstract) question. And once we see the beggar's demand in general, systemic terms, it is easy for us to pass him by without rendering aid. n86 Someone else, perhaps society (with my tax dollars), will take care of that problem. / Normativity thus enables us to ignore and smooth over the rough edges of our world, to tune out or redefine what would otherwise make a claim on us. In the legal system, the clearest [*955] examples of this are found in cases where the Supreme Court has been faced with subsistence claims.

===ecofeminism advantage=== 
====1nc ecofem f/l==== 

The impact is inevitable – no reason why [transportation] is the lynchpin of all [patriarchy] and no spillover

Moral tunnel vision is complicit with evil
Isaac, ‘02 – Professor of Political Science, Indiana (Jeffrey, “Ends, Means and Politics,” Dissent 49.2, p 35-6, ebsco, AG)
As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah Arendt have taught, an unyielding concern with moral goodness undercuts political responsibility. The concern may be morally laudable, reflecting a kind of personal integrity, but it suffers from three fatal flaws: (1) It fails to see that the purity of one's intention does not ensure the achievement of what one intends. Abjuring violence or refusing to make common cause with morally compromised parties may seem like the right thing; but if such tactics entail impotence, then it is hard to view them as serving any moral good beyond the clean conscience of their supporters; (2) it fails to see that in a world of real violence and injustice, moral purity is not simply a form of powerlessness; it is often a form of complicity in injustice. This is why, from the standpoint of politics--as opposed to religion--pacifism is always a potentially immoral stand. In categorically repudiating violence, it refuses in principle to oppose certain violent injustices with any effect; and (3) it fails to see that politics is as much about unintended consequences as it is about intentions; it is the effects of action, rather than the motives of action, that ismost significant. Just as the alignment with "good" may engender impotence, it is often the pursuit of "good" that generates evil. This is the lesson of communism in the twentieth century: it is not enough that one's goals be sincere or idealistic; it is equally important, always, to ask about the effects of pursuing these goals and to judge these effects in pragmatic and historically contextualized ways. Moral absolutism inhibits this judgment. It alienates those who are not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.

Never tolerate extinction
Bok, 1988(Sissela Bok, Professor of Philosophy, Brandeis, Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory, Ed. David Rosenthal and Fudlou Shehadi, 1988)
The same argument can be made for Kant’s other formulations of the Categorical Imperative: “So act as to use humanity, both in your own person and in the person of every other, always at the same time as an end, never simply as a means”; and “So act as if you were always through actions a law-making member in a universal Kingdom of Ends.” No one with a concern for humanity could consistently will to risk eliminating humanity in the person of himself and every other or to risk the death of all members in a universal Kingdom of Ends for the sake of justice. To risk their collective death for the sake of following one’s conscience would be, as Rawls said, “irrational, crazy.” And to say that one did not intend such a catastrophe, but that one merely failed to stop other persons from bringing it about would be beside the point when the end of the world was at stake. For although it is true that we cannot be held responsible for most of the wrongs that others commit, the Latin maxim presents a case where we would have to take such a responsibility seriously—perhaps to the point of deceiving, bribing, even killing an innocent person, in order that the world not perish.

Their review board’s cost-benefit analysis model can’t take environmental impacts into account
Rich Steinman, Federal Transit Administration, May 17 2010 “Panel on Challenges of Applying Benefit/Cost Analysis: A Modal Perspective” http://tti.tamu.edu/group/tec/files/2011/09/benefit-cost10-proceedings.pdf NCHO
Environmental benefits are easier to measure, but still difficult to monetize. The travel forecasts can be used to estimate reductions in vehicle miles traveled (VMT) and reductions in emissions. It is more difficult to turn these estimates into improvements in air quality, and even more difficult to estimate the value of those changes. While environmental impacts can be measured, placing a dollar value on them is not easy.

New Transit triggers gentrification – lack of auto transport shifts suburb residents
Martin 2010 (Gerg St. Martin, Writer for Coalition on Sustainable Transportation, New Transit May Cause Unintended Gentrification, http://www.costaustin.org/jskaggs/?p=1333 DM) A Northeastern report warns of the unintended consequences of first-time expansion of transit into some metropolitan neighborhoods. Extending public transportation to a metropolitan neighborhood for the first time can, in some cases, raise rents, bringing in a population of wealthier residents who would rather drive than take public transportation. That’s the conclusion of a report by the Kitty and Michael Dukakis Center for Urban and Regional Policy, which found that new public transit investments can sometimes lead to gentrification that prices out renters and low-income households—people considered core public-transportation users—working against the public goal of boosting transit ridership. The study, released today, urged planners and policymakers to consider the unintended consequences of neighborhood gentrification when expanding or improving public tr ansit, given the risk that transit investment can cause undesirable neighborhood change. “Transit planners frequently speak of the need for transit-oriented development to support ridership, but what transit stations need is transit-oriented neighbors who will regularly use the system,” said Stephanie Pollack, the report’s lead author and associate director of the Dukakis Center. “In the neighborhoods (around the country) where new light rail stations were built, almost every aspect of neighborhood change was magnified,” added Barry Bluestone, director of the Dukakis Center and the report’s coauthor. “Rents rose faster; owner-occupied units became more prevalent. Before transit was built, these neighborhoods had been dominated by low-income, renter households.” The report, “Maintaining Diversity In America’s Transit-Rich Neighborhoods: Tools for Equitable Neighborhood Change,” was funded by the Rockefeller Foundation. It includes new research analyzing socioeconomic changes in 42 neighborhoods in 12 metropolitan areas across the United States first served by rail transit between 1990 and 2000. The report’s findings, researchers said, also raise concerns about equity. Core transit riders are predominantly people of color and/or low-income who disproportionately live in transit-rich neighborhoods. Researchers calculated that transit-served metropolitan regions are currently home to over half of all African Americans, 60 percent of all Hispanics and 70 percent of all immigrants in the United States. The report’s recommendations include advising policymakers to get ahead of the issues using coordinated and community-responsive planning tools, and designing policies that attract core and potential transit users to these now transit-rich neighborhoods. To moderate increases in rents, future housing policies should include funding for land and property acquisition, preservation of existing affordable housing, and creation of new affordable housing, researchers said.

An increase in housing-prices will cause people living in poverty to greater subjugation and causes racism Sanchez at al 03(Thomas W. Sanchez, Rich Stolz, and Jacinta S. Ma, homas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities” DM)
Another housing-related impact of transportation policies is gentrification. Gentrification is commonly characterized as a transformation of neighborhood conditions that encompass physical, economic, and demographic dimensions and can be defined as “the process by which higher income households displace lower income residents of a neighborhood, changing the essential character and flavor of that neighborhood.”122 It occurs for a number of reasons, including increased desirability of an area due to a transportation investment such as extension of a commuter rail line, new or improved train service or station, or addition of a highway ramp or exit. Most commonly, gentrification has been portrayed in terms of residential location patterns, such as “back to the city” flows of middle-income households from the urban fringe or suburbs or elsewhere within a metropolitan area. Gentrification, however, manifests itself through reinvestment and rehabilitation of previously degraded neighborhoods, improving the physical condition and appearance of both residential and commercial properties. Due to the perception that increased property values, increased safety, and improved neighborhood amenities signal neighborhood revival, middle- income households upgrade housing conditions for their personal consumption. While owner- occupied single-family residences replace renter occupancy, businesses that target the demographic group of middle-income homeowners transform older, traditional commercial locations through reinvestment and rehabilitation of structures. Thus, the gentrification process entails physical property improvements, a demographic change to higher income levels, more “yuppie” (young, urban professionals) households, and property value increases. Some neighborhood gentrifications absorb vacant properties, while others involve replacement (or displacement) of households no longer able to afford housing due to housing cost (price/rent) appreciation. While some consider property value increases resulting from gentrification to be positive, such changes have also been criticized for worsening the well-being of low-income persons, especially in neighborhoods of color. Some have argued that increases in property values are capitalized in rent increases, which then push households that are less able to pay to other neighborhoods or to undesirable housing arrangements.123 In particular, some argue that certain antisprawl land use policies that direct housing development away from the urban fringe reduce housing affordability and limit housing choice, especially for low-income households. Others have argued, in addition to causing displacement, that gentrification is undesirable because it leads to homogenous neighborhoods that are not socioeconomically or culturally diverse.124 However, there is insufficient data to draw specific conclusions about the net social and economic impacts of transportation investments on gentrification and displacement.

====at: tyranny of survival / calla#HAAAAAAAN==== 

Callahan flows neg
Daniel Callahan, Co-founder and former director of The Hastings Institute, PhD in philosophy from Harvard University, “The Tyranny of Survival” 1973, p 103
But let us assume that the stage of a dark cloud on some distant horizon has been passed, and the evidence is good that serious deterioration has already set in. At what point in the deterioration should survival become a priority? Observe that I said a priority; it should never become the priority if that means the sacrifice of all other values. But there are surely conditions under which it could become a priority, and a very high one. The most important of those conditions would be the existence of evidence that irreversibility was beginning to set in, making it increasingly impossible to return to the original conditions. That situation, combined with visible evidence of serious present deterioration for instance, an urgent need to develop compensatory technologies would warrant a focus on survival; for that is just what would be at stake.

Extinction comes first – we have a moral obligation to avoid existential risks, even at the cost of rights
Daniel Callahan, Co-founder and former director of The Hastings Institute, PhD in philosophy from Harvard University, “The Tyranny of Survival” 1973, p 33
First, if morality is about choice, then to underestimate the significance of states and boundaries is to fail to take into account the main features of the real setting in which choices must first be made. To pursue individual justice at the cost of survival or to launch human rights crusades that cannot hope to be fulfilled, yet interfered with prudential concerns about order, may lead to immoral consequences. And if such actions, for example the promotion of human rights in Eastern Europe, were to lead to crises and an unintended nuclear war, the consequences might be the ultimate immorality.

====at: warren and cady / root cause==== 

no root cause to war
Andrew Sullivan, Ph.D. from Harvard in Government; Senior Editor, The New Republic, 2003, “Idiocy Of the Week,” http://dir.salon.com/story/opinion/sullivan/2003/01/15/crow/index.html [gender modified]
One is also required to ask: If war is "not the answer," what exactly is the question? I wonder if, in her long interludes of geopolitical analysis, Ms. Crow even asks herself that. Perhaps if she did -- let's say the question is about the threat of weapons of mass destruction in the hands of terrorists -- we might have an inkling about what her "answer" might actually be. Mercifully, Ms. Crow provides us with what she believes is an argument. Are you sitting down? Here it comes: "I think war is based in greed and there are huge karmic retributions that will follow. I think war is never the answer to solving any problems. The best way to solve problems is to not have enemies." Let's take this bit by bit. "War is based in greed." Some wars, surely. The pirate wars of the 17th century. Saddam's incursion into Kuwait. Early British forays in the Far East and India. But all wars? The United States' intervention in the Second World War? The Wars of Religion in the 17th century? Many wars are fueled by nationalism, or by ideology, or by expansionism. And many wars have seen their protagonists not enriched but impoverished. Take Britain's entry into the war against Nazi Germany. It would have been far more lucrative for the Brits to have made a deal with Hitler, to preserve their wealth and empire. Instead, they waged war, lost their entire imperial project and ransacked their own domestic wealth. Where would that fit into Ms. Crow's worldview? And then there's the concept of a just war -- wars that have to be fought to defeat a greater evil. Wars of self-defense. Wars of prevention. Wars against tyrants. Ms. Crow's remarks seem to acknowledge no such distinction. Does she believe that removing Hitler from power solved nothing? That preventing further genocide in the Balkans solved nothing? That ending 50 years of Soviet tyranny meant nothing? Apparently so. There's only one word for this kind of argument: Asinine. Then we have this wonderful insight: "The best way to solve problems is to not have enemies." Wow. Like, wow. Like, war. It's bad. Bad karma. But, ahem, what if you have no choice in the matter? What if an enemy decides, out of hatred or fanaticism or ideology, simply to attack you? I'm not sure where Ms. Crow was on Sept. 11, 2001. But the enemy made its point palpably clear. Does wishing that these crazed religious nuts were not our enemies solve any problems? I'm taking her too seriously, of course. I should ignore her. But the "antiwar" movement (I put it in quotation marks because any kind of appeasement this time will only make a bloodier future war inevitable) is happy to use celebrities for its own purposes. And so their presence in the debate has to be acknowledged, if only to be decried. So let's decry this moronic celebrity convergence. The weak arguments of the appease-Saddam left just got a little weaker. And the karmic retributions are gonna be harsh, [wo]man. Way harsh.

====at: epistemology 1st==== 

No it doesn't ):
David Owen, Reader of Political Theory @ the University of Southampton, 2002, Millennium 31(3), p. 655-7
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[a] frenzy for words like “epistemology” and “ontology” often signals this philosophical turn’, although he goes on to comment that these terms are often used loosely.4 However, loosely deployed or not, it is clear that debates concerning ontology and epistemology play a central role in the contemporary IR theory wars. In one respect, this is unsurprising since it is a characteristic feature of the social sciences that periods of disciplinary disorientation involve recourse to reflection on the philosophical commitments of different theoretical approaches, and there is no doubt that such reflection can play a valuable role in making explicit the commitments that characterise (and help individuate) diverse theoretical positions. Yet, such a philosophical turn is not without its dangers and I will briefly mention three before turning to consider a confusion that has, I will suggest, helped to promote the IR theory wars by motivating this philosophical turn. The first danger with the philosophical turn is that it has an inbuilt tendency to prioritise issues of ontology and epistemology over explanatory and/or interpretive power as if the latter two were merely a simple function of the former. But while the explanatory and/or interpretive power of a theoretical account is not wholly independent of its ontological and/or epistemological commitments (otherwise criticism of these features would not be a criticism that had any value), it is by no means clear that it is, in contrast, wholly dependent on these philosophical commitments. Thus, for example, one need not be sympathetic to rational choice theory to recognise that it can provide powerful accounts of certain kinds of problems, such as the tragedy of the commons in which dilemmas of collective action are foregrounded. It may, of course, be the case that the advocates of rational choice theory cannot give a good account of why this type of theory is powerful in accounting for this class of problems (i.e., how it is that the relevant actors come to exhibit features in these circumstances that approximate the assumptions of rational choice theory) and, if this is the case, it is a philosophical weakness—but this does not undermine the point that, for a certain class of problems, rational choice theory may provide the best account available to us. In other words, while the critical judgement of theoretical accounts in terms of their ontological and/or epistemological sophistication is one kind of critical judgement, it is not the only or even necessarily the most important kind. The second danger run by the philosophical turn is that because prioritisation of ontology and epistemology promotes theory-construction from philosophical first principles, it cultivates a theory-driven rather than problem-driven approach to IR. Paraphrasing Ian Shapiro, the point can be put like this: since it is the case that there is always a plurality of possible true descriptions of a given action, event or phenomenon, the challenge is to decide which is the most apt in terms of getting a perspicuous grip on the action, event or phenomenon in question given the purposes of the inquiry; yet, from this standpoint, ‘theory-driven work is part of a reductionist program’ in that it ‘dictates always opting for the description that calls for the explanation that flows from the preferred model or theory’.5 The justification offered for this strategy rests on the mistaken belief that it is necessary for social science because general explanations are required to characterise the classes of phenomena studied in similar terms. However, as Shapiro points out, this is to misunderstand the enterprise of science since ‘whether there are general explanations for classes of phenomena is a question for social-scientific inquiry, not to be prejudged before conducting that inquiry’.6 Moreover, this strategy easily slips into the promotion of the pursuit of generality over that of empirical validity.</span>

==natives neg== 
===all the things cp=== 
====1nc everythang==== 

**[<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Because my partner and I find this continued abrogation of federal responsibility unacceptable, we offer the following counterplan… </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">The USFG will substantially increase transportation infrastructure investment on Native American reservations by repairing and rebuilding bridges. USFG will substantially increase its broadband, health care, and education infrastructure investment on Native American reservations, including but not limited to Healthcare reforms and Education reforms.]</span>**

**We'll clarify.**

**Infrastructure stimulus saves Native economies and solves case.**
**Blodget 12** ( Henry Blodget is co-founder, CEO and Editor-In Chief of Business Insider a top-ranked Wall Street Internet analyst. Jun. 19, 2012, Yes, It's Time For A Massive Infrastructure Spending Program, ://www.businessinsider.com/infrastructure-spending-program-2012-6?op=1)
YES, GOVERNMENT SPENDING DOES WORK--SOME GOVERNMENT SPENDING. The economy is basically composed of three big spending engines —consumers, corporations (investment), and governments. So when the first two weaken, as they have in recent years, the third can help offset this weakness. Specifically, the government can increase its spending to offset the lost consumer and business spending. When governments spend money well, moreover—such as on infrastructure projects that benefit all citizens—the impact of this spending lasts far beyond the years in which the money is spent. Roads, bridges, schools, airports, national broadband networks, and other investments can improve the country for decades. When the government spends money badly, meanwhile--on bailouts and handouts and by perpetuating unsustainable promises of entitlement programs--the money is just wasted. Ever since the 2009 stimulus "failed to fix the economy," the consensus in the US has been that government stimulus doesn't work. There's actually a lot of evidence to suggest that it did work, or at least helped improve the situation (check out these charts). But the theory that government spending "doesn't work" is pervasive. In support of this theory, everyone first points to Japan, where the government has been frantically "stimulating" the economy for two decades now. Then they point to the Great Depression, with its massive public-works programs. But other evidence suggests that the impact of government stimulus, specifically infrastructure stimulus, is being badly misunderstood. Richard Koo Think Japan's stimulus has failed? Look at what it would have done with government intervention (red line). The work of economist Richard Koo, for example, suggests that Japan's stimulus has been vastly more successful than is commonly believed. Far from not working, Koo argues, Japan's government stimulus has kept Japan's economy alive for the past 20 years. Without the stimulus, Koo says, Japan's economy would not have crawled along for the last two decades—it would have collapsed. When the same logic is applied to the US stimulus of 2009-2010, the conclusion is that the stimulus "failed to fix" the US economy, but that it kept the recession from being much worse. In addition to Japan, one of the most often-repeated examples cited by those who say stimulus doesn't work is the US experience in the Great Depression. To see that stimulus doesn't work, they say, all you need to do is look at the huge public-works programs of the 1930s, which failed to pull the US permanently out of the Depression. What finally got the US out of the Depression, these folks continue, was World War 2. World War 2: The biggest Keynesian stimulus ever. But what was World War 2 if not a gigantic government stimulus? That's exactly what World War 2 was. It put the US government deeply in debt, vastly deeper in debt than we are today. But it got our production engine humming again. And it set the stage for decades of impressive growth, during which we eventually worked off the World War 2 debt. So there's a lot of evidence to suggest that the current consensus that stimulus "doesn't work" is flat-out wrong. In fact, the evidence suggests, stimulus can keep the economy from collapsing while the private sector heals itself. And this, in turn, suggests that ruling out future stimulus in the form of infrastructure investment as a way to help the economy is a major mistake, especially with US infrastructure in such lousy shape and so many US workers idled by the construction industry slowdown. To learn more about how government stimulus helps economies get through depressions, flip through some of Richard Koo's excellent slides below. They focus on Japan, the Depression, and recent US and Europe experiences...

===woan / give back the land k=== 
====1nc woan/gbtl==== 

After generations of genocide and suffering, and after the trail of tears, the affirmative’s response is for the federal government to say sorry, and build the natives some trains. This type of politics goes to expand the cage, but keeps it locked.
WARD CHURCHILL, FORMER PROFESSOR OF ETHNIC STUDIES AT UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO, BOULDER 1996 [“I AM INDIGENIST,” FROM A NATIVE SON PGS 520-30]
T<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">hat's looking for a painless fix again. Power and leverage in the traditional sense are not going to bring fundamental change into being. Each of those entities is a projector of the same kind of violence, but on a quantitatively lesser scale than the U.S. However, the nature of their intervention, based upon their perception of self-interest, is convincing the U.S. to [change] in a way that will not visit undue consequences upon them. You'd get cosmetic alterations-policy adjustments and so forth-a refinement of the system, thus the continuation of the status quo. It would ultimately create illusions of change and keep people confused. Third world opposition on the other hand understands this dynamic much more clearly. You have to have an eradication of the beast, not a retraining of the beast's performance. I can give a talk to a university in North America, to students and professors, and they are fundamentally confused about things that are automatically self-evident to people when you go to a village in Latin America, where the average educational attainment is third grade. Now why can these "peasants" automatically grasp concepts that are just beyond the reach altogether of your average university audience in North America? Why do you think? Partly because it's this fostering of illusion-and it's self-imposed-that repeating the same process yet again will somehow lead to a fundamentally different result. We can go through the charade of 'let's elect John Kerry instead of George Bush,' do things which are essentially painless to us, and the outcome is going to be different. You don't have politics, you have alchemy. That's delusional behavior. It's a state of denial in a social maybe even cultural sense. And that's what's masquerading as progressive politics. Is there a historical example of what could happen here? There is absolutely no historical precedent that I could name. We're [within] the belly of the beast. When you destabilize, when there is genuinely significant fracturing, the actual disintegration of the social and political order. Everybody goes on about the end of the 60s, but there nonetheless were conditions indicating substantial instability. The ability of the U.S. to project power didn't exactly evaporate but it was very sharply curtailed. But a complete curtailment of the U.S. ability to project power on a global basis has no historical precedent.</span>

The affirmative relies on the government for solutions – this creates an illusion that we are making progressive action. Reform will inevitably lead to the further retrenchment of racism. Independently, this colonizes our education in the debate sphere – prior impact
Woan (Master of Arts in Philosophy, Politics, and Law in the Graduate School of Binghamton University) 2011 (Tansy, “The value of resistance in a permanently white, civil society,” http://gradworks.umi.com/14/96/1496586.html, August 2011, pg 9-19)
Stokely Carmichael and Charles V. Hamilton, in then influential Black Power, describe reformist strategies as "playing ball" with the white man. They argue that reform plays the white man's game in order to gain rights, i.e. appeal to a white supremacist government that is the precise agent responsible for the original harms they are seeking to alleviate.9 While this may very well result in the granting of new rights previously denied, it maintains a hierarchical system between whites and nonwhites, since the latter will have to continue to appeal to the former to ask for rights they never should have been denied in the first place. This places the former in a position of power to accept or deny such requests. Thus, in Carmichael and Hamilton's view, attempting to resist white supremacy by working within white supremacist institutions maintains a dangerous system of power relations that lock in place the hierarchy between whites and nonwhites. / It is unfortunate enough that members of minority groups face public and private racial discrimination. It is worse, however, to place the burden of combating this discrimination on them. What Carmichael and Hamilton aptly point out is that the hierarchy between races mentioned above is what is responsible for this undue burden. There is not only the constant physical struggle of protesting, writing letters, and being dragged through litigation that can often get expensive, but there is the psychological struggle as well. Why am I not worthy of equal protection under the law? Why is it that others do not even notice the disparate impact of the law? Or, even worse, why is it that those who do notice, seem to not care? / What inevitably comes with these types of reformist strategies is an emotional struggle, namely, an inferiority complex that makes the victimized individual stop and wonder — who put the white man in charge of my body? Appeals to the federal government to repeal discriminatory acts that deny minorities rights becomes analogous to asking whites to eliminate such policies and to allow others access to the same rights they enjoy every day. The racial state becomes in charge of what nonwhites can and cannot do, and when nonwhites continue to go to whites asking them to pass certain policies, nonwhites further legitimate this system of power relations. It is difficult to see how true equality can be achieved wider such a system. / B. Missing the Root Cause: The Racial State / Omi and Winant further support this claim and explain that it is not merely individual policies passed by the United States federal government that are racist, but that racial oppression is a structure of the government itself.10 They describe this structure as the "racial state" to show that the state does not merely support racism, but rather, it supports the concept of race itself. As will be discussed later in this paper, Omi and Winant explain how the state is the agent that has defined race, and that this definition has evolved over time, to maintain the concept of race and support racism. / Given the existence of the racial state, Omi and Winant critique reformist strategies as falling short of achieving normative goals of eliminating racism since the reforms merely get re-equilibriated. A look at the history of racial victories in the United States further supports this critique. Racial victories for one minority were often made possible only with the entrapment of another racial minority. For example, while many celebrate the racial victory of the 1954 Brown v. Board decision, many fail to see this happened the same year as Operation Wetback, which shifted the racial discrimination to a different population, removing close to one million illegal immigrants, mostly Mexicans, from the United States.11 Moreover, soon after the ratification of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments granting citizenship and suffrage to Blacks. Congress chose to deny citizenship to Chinese immigrants.12 In 1941, shortly after the establishment of the Committee on Fair Employment Practices permitted Blacks into defense industries, Japanese Americans were taken from their homes and sent off to internment camps. Pei-te Lien argues that all of these "coincidences" support critiques of reformist strategies that merely target individual policies, since without challenging the racial state as a whole, even the elimination of these individual policies will fail to eliminate racism, as they will simply replicate themselves or shift elsewhere and target racial minorities in different ways.14 / C. Separatist Movements / This helps to explain why political activists began adopting other more revolutionary strategies. Contrary to Martin Luther King Jr. and many of his followers during the Civil Rights Movement, the Black Power Movement emerged and began advocating for more separatist strategies that rejected making reformist appeals to the United States federal government. In his speech "The Ballot or the Bullet," Malcolm X argued: / When you take your case to Washington D.C., you're taking it to the criminal who's responsible: it's like miming from the wolf to the fox. They're all in cahoots together. They all work political chicanery and make you look like a chump before the eyes of the world. Here you are walking around in America, getting ready to be drafted and sent abroad, like a tin soldier, and when you get over there, people ask you what you are fighting for, and you have to stick your tongue in your cheek. No, take Uncle Sam to court, take him before the world. / Critics of reformist strategies, such as Malcolm X, understood the United States as being inherently racial and thus incapable of reform. They use the "coincidences" listed above as evidence to support this claim. They view the United States federal government as a racial state that will merely continue to define race in new and more modernized ways, ensuring the permanence of racism with the passage of new policies supporting these definitions. This is why they believe reformists are wrong to attack individual policies, rather than the racial state itself. / For example, the legal enforcement of a racially discriminatory housing covenant may have been justified due to a racist belief that members of the minority race restricted from acquiring title within that neighborhood is inferior to the Caucasian race. More specifically, one might support said covenant because one believes the inferiority of that minority race and the potential they might become your neighbor will result in a decrease in the fair market value of your property. After vigorous ongoing protests from civil rights activists, that particular law enforcing those covenants might get repealed. However, the reason for the repeal of that law might arise not from an ethical epiphany, but rather an economic rationale in which the homeowner is shown his property value will remain unaffected, or perhaps even increase. Thus, that particular act may get repealed, but the policymakers responsible for its original draft will still be in power, and will maintain the same beliefs that motivated that piece of legislation in the first place. Because there has been no ethical realization of the injustice in their conduct, the chances remain high that they will construct new, apparently different but equally discriminatory policies that will force activists to join forces once again and continue the same fight. / This is why it is not the individual policies, but the government itself that is the "preeminent site of racial conflict."17 Omi and Winant's proposal of the "racial state" views the government as "inherently racial," meaning it does not simply intervene in racial conflicts, but it is the locus of racial conflict.18 In addition to structuring conceptions of race, the government in the United States is in and of itself racially structured.19 State policies govern racial politics, heavily influencing the public on how race should be viewed. The ways in which it does so changes over time, often taking on a more invisible nature. For example, Omi and Winant describe the racial state as treating race in different ways throughout different periods of time, first as a biologically based essence, and then as an ideology, etc. These policies are followed by racial remedies offered by government institutions, in response to political pressures and in accordance to these different treatments of race, varying in degree depending on the magnitude of the threats those pressures pose to the order of society. Notable achievements during the Civil Rights Movement have served as a double-edged sword. While the reformist strategies utilized during that period helped make certain advances possible, it also drove other more overt expressions of racism underground. These more invisible instantiations of racial injustice are far more difficult to identify than its previously more explicit forms. Praising these victories risks giving off the illusion that the fight is over and that racism is a description of the past. / For example, the ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment gave off the illusion that all citizens thereafter had equal access to the right to vote. Those who supported its ratification now felt entitled to the moral credentials necessary to legitimize their ability to express racially prejudiced attitudes.21 For example, voter turnout today remains relatively low for Asian-Americans, and many blame this on cultural differences between Asians and Americans.22 Asian-Americans are labeled as apathetic in the political community and they themselves have been attributed the blame for relatively low representation of Asian-Americans in the government today.23 This however, ignores the way in which other more invisible practices serve to obstruct Asian-Americans from being able to exercise their right to vote. / Research by the United States Election Assistance Commission by the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University, for example, indicates that restrictive voter identification requirements have effectively served to disenfranchise Asian Pacific Islanders (APIs) from voting.24 In the 2004 election, researchers found APIs in states where voters were required to present proper identification at the polls were 8.5% less likely to vote.25 This study confirmed that voter ID requirements prevented a large number of APIs from voting.26 / Voter suppression tactics also play a large role in the disenfranchisement of APIs. According to a Voter Intimidation and Vote Suppression briefing paper by Demos, a national public policy center, an estimated 50 Asian Americans were selectively challenged at the polls in Alabama during August of 2004, as being ineligible to vote due to insufficient English-speaking skills.27 Many states have allowed this selective challenging of voters to take place at the polls, resulting in a feeling of fear, intimidation, and embarrassment among APIs, driving them away from the polls. / The danger in treasuring monumental victories such as the ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment becomes apparent when people interpret this ratification as an indication that voting discrimination is no longer a problem, and that if the voter turnout of Asian-Americans is consistently low, it must be because they are politically apathetic or disinterested in American ideals. Because they originally supported the ratification of the amendment, whites can now feel as if they have the moral credentials to make conclusions such as the cultural differences rationale. The same can be seen after courts ordered the desegregation of public schools and after affirmative action programs became more widespread. People began assuming African-Americans now had an equal opportunity for education and that if they did not succeed, it must be a reflection of their intelligence or work-ethic, failing to see the ways the problem has not been solved, but rather disguised itself in other costumes, such as tracking programs in schools or teachers who view their presence as merely "affirmative action babies" and expect them to fail. / One might ask, then, why can we not change the racial state one policy at a time? Perhaps one could first work to gain the right to vote, and then move on to combat discriminatory identification requirements and political scare tactics. It would not seem entirely implausible to assume that the success of individual piecemeal reforms within the government could eventually result in a transformation of the institution itself. However, simply eliminating discriminatory policies is insufficient for an overhaul of a racial institution. / Understanding the motivating reasons for the elimination of individual racist policies is a critical factor in determining the success of a movement. While one justification for passing the Fifteenth Amendment might consist of arguments in favor of equality and exposing racial injustice, another justification might involve maintaining order and minimizing disruption, which is important to the federal government and its ability to run smoothly. Thus, the government often seeks out ways to normalize society through eliminating disruptions to preserve order. When those being denied certain rights grow significantly discontent, they rebel and become disruptions to the functioning of white, civil society. This can take the form of civil disobedience, such as protests, peaceful demonstrations, petitions, letters to the government, etc., or more revolutionary measures, such as damaging government offices or violently harassing officials to acknowledge the injustices and change policy. / All of these measures, however peaceful or violent, disrupt society. A town cannot run smoothly if protesters are filling up the streets or blocking frequently-used road paths, and most certainly cannot run smoothly if town halls are being lit on fire. Thus, in order to return to the desired homeostasis, those in power may often compromise and offer to rectify the situation at hand by granting rights to individuals through changes in legislation in order to appease them and "eliminate" the disruption (the protests, demonstrations, etc.). The lack of effort made towards protecting these rights bolsters Bell's argument that these reforms serve more of a symbolic value rather than functional. If still operating under the racial state, these piecemeal reforms will fail to solve the original racial injustices in the long term, as they will only succeed in establishing a new unstable equilibrium, only to be followed with the replication of new racial problems.28 These new problems will once again create resentment, generate protest, and the cycle will begin to replicate itself, ensuring the permanence of racism. Omi and Winant term this cycle of continuous disruption and restoration of order as the trajectory of racial politics.29 This trajectory supports the treatment of racism as inevitable since even if the racial state mitigates racial disruption over a particular policy and "restores order," another policy based off a new definition of race will emerge triggering another racial disruption, continuing this cycle of racial politics.

**This flips all their education arguments – regardless of how they articulate their micro-level demand, their discourse is inexorably tied with the macro structures of whiteness.**
Pierre **Schlag**, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 19**90**, “Normative and Nowhere to Go,” Lexis-Nexis
All of this can seem very funny. That's because it is very funny. It is also deadly serious. It is deadly serious, because all this normative legal thought, as Robert Cover explained, takes place in a field of pain and death. n56 And in a very real sense Cover was right. Yet as it takes place, normative legal thought is playing language games -- utterly oblivious to the character of the language games it plays, and thus, utterly uninterested in considering its own rhetorical and political contributions (or lack thereof) to the field of pain and death. To be sure, normative legal thinkers are often genuinely concerned with reducing the pain and the death. However, the problem is not what normative legal thinkers do with normative legal thought, but what normative legal thought does with normative legal thinkers. What is missing in normative legal thought is any serious questioning, let alone tracing, of the relations that the practice, the rhetoric, the routine of normative legal thought have (or do not have) to the field of pain and death. / And there is a reason for that: Normative legal thought misunderstands its own situation. Typically, normative legal thought understands itself to be outside the field of pain and death and in charge of organizing and policing that field. It is as if the action of normative legal thought could be separated from the background field of pain and death. This theatrical distinction is what allows normative legal thought its own self-important, self-righteous, self-image -- its congratulatory sense of its own accomplishments and effectiveness. / All this self-congratulation works very nicely so long as normative legal [*188] thought continues to imagine itself as outside the field of pain and death and as having effects within that field. n57 Yet it is doubtful this image can be maintained. It is not so much the case that normative legal thought has effects on the field of pain and death -- at least not in the direct, originary way it imagines. Rather, it is more the case that normative legal thought is the pattern, is the operation of the bureaucratic distribution and the institutional allocation of the pain and the death. n58 And apart from the leftover ego-centered rationalist rhetoric of the eighteenth century (and our routine), there is nothing at this point to suggest that we, as legal thinkers, are in control of normative legal thought. / The problem for us, as legal thinkers, is that the normative appeal of normative legal thought systematically turns us away from recognizing that normative legal thought is grounded on an utterly unbelievable re-presentation of the field it claims to describe and regulate. The problem for us is that normative legal thought, rather than assisting in the understanding of present political and moral situations, stands in the way. It systematically reinscribes its own aesthetic -- its own fantastic understanding of the political and moral scene. n59 Until normative legal thought begins to deal with its own paradoxical postmodern rhetorical situation, it will remain something of an irresponsible enterprise. In its rhetorical structure, it will continue to populate the legal academic world with individual humanist subjects who think themselves empowered Cartesian egos, but who are largely the manipulated constructions of bureaucratic practices -- academic and otherwise. / To the extent possible, it is important to avoid this kind of category mistake. For instance, it is important to understand that your automobile insurance adjuster is not simply some updated version of the eighteenth century *189 individual humanist subject. Even though the insurance adjuster will quite often engage you in normative talk-- arguing with you about responsibility, fairness, fault, allocation of blame, adequacy of compensation, and the like-- he is unlikely to be terribly receptive or susceptible to any authentic normative dialogue. His normative competence, his normative sensitivity, is scripted somewhere else. It is important to be clear about these things. The contemporary lawyer, for instance, may talk the normative rhetoric of the eighteenth century individual humanist subject. But make no mistake: This normative or humanist rhetoric is very likely the unfolding of bureaucratic logic. The modern lawyer is very often a kind of meta-insurance adjuster. And that makes you and me, as legal academics, trainers of meta-insurance adjusters. This is perhaps an unpleasant realization. One of the most important effects of normative legal thought is to intercede here so that we, as legal academics, do not have to confront this unpleasant realization. Normative legal thought allows us to pretend that we are preparing our students to become Atticus Finch [FN61] while we are in fact training people who will enter the meta-insurance adjustment business. For our students, this role-confusion is unlikely to be very funny. It will get even less so upon their graduation -- when they learn that Atticus Finch has been written out of the script. For us, of course, it is a pleasant fantasy to think we are teaching Atticus Finch. When the fantasy is over, it becomes one hell of a category mistake. And in the rude transition from the one to the other, Atticus Finch can quickly turn into Dan Quayle. In fact, if you train your students to become Atticus Finch, they will likely end up as Dan Quayle – cognitively defenseless against the regimenting and monitoring practices of bureaucratic institutions. Atticus Finch, as admirable as he may be, has none of the cognitive or critical resources necessary to understand the duplicities of the bureaucratic networks within which we operate. Apart from the fantasies of the legal academy, there is no longer a place in America for a lawyer like Atticus Finch. There is nothing for him to do here -- nothing he can do. He is a moral character in a world where the role of moral thought has become at best highly ambivalent, a normative thinker in a world where normative legal thought is already largely the bureaucratic logic of institutions.

**We must decolonize our education or face genocide.**
**Ani** (BA degree at the University of Chicago, and holds MA and Ph.D. degrees in anthropology from the Graduate Faculty of the New School University) 19**94**
(Marimba, “Yurugu: An African-centered Critique of European Cultural Thought and Behavior,” Book, pg 1-2)
This study of Europe is an intentionally aggressive polemic. It is an assault upon the European paradigm; a repudiation of its essence. It is initiated with the intention of contributing to the process of demystification necessary for those of us who would liberate ourselves from European intellectual imperialism. Europe's political domination of Africa and much of the "non-European" world has been accompanied by a relentless cultural and psychological rape and by devastating economic exploitation. But what has compelled me to write this book is the conviction that beneath this deadly onslaught lies a stultifying intellectual mystification that prevents Europe's political victims from thinking in a manner that would lead to authentic self-determination. Intellectual decolonization is a prerequisite for the creation of successful political decolonization and cultural reconstruction strategies. Europe's political imperialistic success can be accredited not so much to superior military might, as to the weapon of culture: The former ensures more immediate control but requires continual physical force for the maintenance of power, while the latter succeeds In long-lasting dominance that enlists the cooperation of its victims (i.e., pacification of the will). The secret Europeans discovered early in their history is that culture carries rules for thinking, and that if you could impose your culture on your victims you could limit the creativity of their vision, destroying their ability to act with will and intent and in their own interest. The truth is that we are all "intellectuals," all potential visionaries. / This book discusses the evolution of that process of imposition, as well as the characteristics of cultural beings who find it necessary to impose their will on others. It is not a simple process to explain, since the tools we need in order to dissect it have been taken from us through colonial miseducation. It is necessary to begin, therefore, with a painful weaning from the very epistemological assumptions that strangle us. The weaning takes patience and commitment, but the liberation of our minds is well worth the struggle. / My chosen field is African-Centered cultural science — the reconstruction of a revolutionary African culture. I teach Pan-African studies. The experience convinces me more and more, however, that teaching Pan-African studies well means teaching European studies simultaneously. To be truly liberated, African people must come to know the nature of European thought and behavior in order to understand the effect that Europe has had on our ability to think victoriously. We must be able to separate our thought from European thought, so as to visualize a future that is not dominated by Europe. This is demanded by an African-centered view because we are Africans, and because the future towards which Europe leads us is genocidal.


**The very possibility of ethics and freedom resides in a rejection of the affirmative’s ratification of democracy, the state and civil society. Resisting the lure of anti-blackness through a genealogy of history’s constitutive void is the starting point for imagining a new world.**
**Kokontis** 20**11** (Kate, PhD in Performance Studies from UC-Berkeley, “Performative Returns and the Rememory of History: genealogy and performativity in the American racial state,” Dissertation available on Proquest)
On one hand, she addresses the literal politics that the theological narratives espouse. There is a long tradition of deploying the Exodus narrative toward the pursuit of social reform. That is, instead of appealing to it in a way that focuses on the next world, “[t]hrough biblical typology, particularly uses of Exodus, African Americans elevated their common experiences to biblical drama and found resources to account for their circumstances and respond effectively to them. [...] Exodus history sustained hope and a sense of possibility in the face of insurmountable evil. The analogical uses of the story enabled a sense of agency and resistance in persistent moments of despair and disillusionment.”64 But even these efforts have – not exclusively, but often – relied on a particular iteration of the social gospel that presupposes a set of moral and institutional imperatives (for instance, the ideal of training racial, religious, sexual, social, or institutional “deviants” or outlyers to behave according to an ostensibly correct set of moral principles) that run counter to a radical critique of the underlying terms of the state and civil society which tend to ratify, naturalize, and invisibilize antiblackness and/or policies that adversely impact black people who are not part of the middle class, rather than to critique or subvert it. Hartman, on the other hand, does call for, and mount, a radical critique of the terms of the state and civil society: for her, they are inherently unethical rather than redeemable, having engendered centuries of black social death and historical unknowability, and thus any struggle toward freedom demands an unflinching critical analysis rather than an implicit or explicit ratification of these institutions and the terms on which they are predicated. But more fundamentally, she addresses the political implications of the assumptive logic of a theological teleology. I interpret Hartman to posit that there is a kind of freedom that can be predicated on not-knowing: if there is no predetermined future, there is no divine imperative that might encourage an investment in the moral prescriptions of a conservative social gospel: a toppled faith in the redemptive possibilities of the struggle has the potential to open the door to invention, speculation, refashioning, and cobbling together something from nothing, presence from absence. I interpret her to posit that a viable freedom dream necessitates the acknowledgment of loss and absence and the history of processes of dehumanizing antiblackness, the acknowledgement of the wound and its psychic, social, political, and ethical causes – as well as an acknowledgement of its persistence – rather than being deluded by tidy or optimistic but under-analyzed narratives of progress or redemption. Only then can any realistic stock be taken toward re-imagining the world and the possibilities and imperatives of a black freedom struggle. While Haley and Gates draw on narratives that say that the past, including its suffering, was meaningful, Hartman offers what might appear to be a much bleaker interpretation that insists that it is meaningless insofar as it is not folded into any sort of teleology. But in that is a kind of freedom/dream, because the subjects of her narrative are free from a predetermination of the terms on which liberation is possible, the structures around its enactment. What she calls for is a profound refashioning of the epistemology of the invisible, which is as fundamental a component of the black freedom struggle as is an epistemology of verifiable evidence of oppression. That is, she advocates the excavation of psychic structures and historical silences to replace an implicit or explicit faith in a divine logic in the (racial) order of things. Genealogy cannot connect with the unknown, so it becomes a ghost story, an excavation. The term might then be interpreted less as a means of accessing literal ancestors, and more as a process toward understanding. Hartman constructs, in her text, not a genealogy of anyone’s family, but a genealogy of the stranger, of the slave; a genealogy of loss, of the lost, of searching. Projects that make use of imaginative, performative, quasi-fictional or poetic devices can’t rest with not-knowing: the imaginative devices emerge, in fact, from attempts to piece together or construct/invent evidence from its lack. They all insist on the importance of knowing, whether because of some large-scale sense of collective responsibility, or because of personal yearning, or both. The imaginative devices don’t exist for the sake of being imaginative; they exist for the sake of survival. But in being imaginative, they allow for radical possibilities to emerge that literality forecloses. Part of what performance might offer the study of history is a) different keys to be able to fill in the gaps, that aren’t so heavily reliant upon explicit, legible empiricism, and b) not only permission for, but encouragement of what uncertainty can yield. Genealogy, broadly understood, is what furnishes evidence: it is the key to filling in blanks that are impossible to fill. One version of it is capable of being profoundly literal; of making reconstruction possible; it is used to fill in the blank that has been lost to us – whomever the ‘us’ is: the dispossessed, displaced, marginalized – providing an object to slip into a gaping negative space. This I would call genealogy as an object. A different version is used in order to understand the gaps, to underscore or illuminate the negative spaces and ask how they came to be, and filling in the context around the blank spaces, inheriting the loss, becomes the way to trace the relationship between the past, present, and future. This I would call genealogy as a process. What, then, is or could be critical or even radical in roots-seeking genealogy projects? There is something inherently conservative about nostalgia, according to most interpretations; but not if a notion of “radical nostalgia,” such as that offered by Peter Glazer, is pursued: such an enactment of notalgia engages in worldmaking and invention; the definition takes for granted that nostalgia is for worlds and times that never existed, and that therefore it is not conservative (i.e. about returning to an idealized past), but that it is creative and always seeking something new. Performative returns are inevitably projects of yearning, of wishing for a past that was imagined to be better than the present (which has devolved in some way) or a future that has promise and potential. The mythical Aztec homeland Aztlán that was made popular during the Chicano Movement is a very elegant example: it is a wished-for, utopian space, acknowledged as being impossible to realize, but always animating the spirit of the concrete efforts of its adherents toward social justice and structural change (see Anaya and Lomelí 1991). Hartman writes: “To believe, as I do, that the enslaved are our contemporaries is to understand that we share their aspirations and defeats, which isn’t to say that we are owed what they were due but rather to acknowledge that they accompany our every effort to fight against domination, to abolish the color line, and to imagine a free territory, a new commons. It is to take to heart their knowledge of freedom. The enslaved knew that freedom had to be taken; it wasn’t something that could ever be given to you. The kind of freedom that could be given to you could just as easily be taken back. [...] The demands of the slave on the present have everything to do with making good the promise of abolition, and this entails much more than the end of property in slaves. It requires the reconstruction of society, which is the only way to honor our debt to the dead. This is the intimacy of our age with theirs – an unfinished struggle. To what end does one conjure the ghost of slavery, if not to incite the hopes of transforming the present?” (Hartman 2007, 269-270). But performative return is not necessarily critical, and part of what I demonstrate throughout this dissertation is how such projects are always more complicated than they seem; they work to challenge and bolster the racial state; they are in some ways radical and in others extremely conservative. And this question of criticality has precisely to do with normativity: do genealogical practices, the conclusions they draw and the worldmaking they do, work to undo or to reinscribe oppressive patterns, habits, worldviews, available roles of and categories for historically marginalized groups of people? All three of these projects attempt to re-write the terms of America, such that the circumstances of African-Americans are configured as being integral instead of outside the dominant narrative; constitutive rather than an aberration. But they waver between trying to write that as a narrative of progress, in which we have left slavery behind and have ascended to a space of constitutive normativity; and trying to underline the fundamental and unending nature of slavery – a kind of rejoinder to uncritical narratives that not only attends to the subjective space of social death that it has yielded but the possibilities and necessities of invent ion that have flourished in its wake. What they have in common is that they present the necessity of grappling with the past instead of ignoring it, allowing African-Americans’ movements and reinscriptions of migration to trouble the waters of complacency, forging a broader awareness of the fraught position they have historically occupied. Each contains kernels of great possibility for an inclusive vision of the future as well as more or less significant red flags. Hartman’s vision, however, seems to espouse a particularly liberating articulation of freedom, because it does not try to deny or occlude the presence or significance of ongoing disparity and loss: while Gates’ and Haley’s subjects and implied audience have already succeeded, gained access to civil society, and have implicitly ratified the fundamental terms on which it is predicated, Hartman’s are still struggling to make something from nothing; they have an urgency in attending to disparities, and no investment in a status quo that excludes or violates their well-being. What she claims or advocates is not a victimized stance, but rather a staunch activist one that is inflected by a rigorous and unflinching structural analysis, and a sensitive and equally rigorous understanding of desire, yearning, and the possibilities for reinvention and reconstruction that emerge when faced with profound absence and loss.

===natives advantage=== 
====1nc natives f/l==== 

Here the Affirmative misses the question of the solution to the problem: because the foundation of their system was based upon the blood and gore of the ‘foreign body’ the Western ideologies have pushed out, their blanketing of Native American destruction and land rights only serve to extent the ideology that ruins their project, inevitably pushing the blame on other scapegoats, and justifying the logic of genocide.
LEVENE, 2000 (MARK, 11.2.2000, U WARWICK, WHY IS THE TWENTIETH CENTURY THE CENTURY OF GENOCIDE?)
The flip side to these national and indeed antinational constructions, however, was that they all implicitly assumed the existence of population groupings which not only would not fit the prescribed model but which, in some critical sense, threatened to contaminate it. Again the crystallization of this tendency can be located in European, scientifically informed wisdoms from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. In particular, medical science's "discovery" of deathdealing bacteria and bacilli not only coincided with mass epidemics in the new urban and metropolitan centers but also with new and obsessive Social Darwinian discourses about the "survival of the fittest." Fears of communal weakness and febrility thus became associated with anxieties that "foreign bodies" operating from within the body-politic might undermine or contaminate the physical and mental health of the nation, leading in turn to further medically informed but supposedly value-free prognostications on how to protect or improve the national stock by eugenics or other programs of social engineering. These fin-de-siècle anxieties were a common feature of the western or western-orientated world at large. But they arguably played or were to play more prominent roles among political elites in latecomer states who perceived their national weakness keenly and who sought radical policies to overcome or transcend their limitations. One tendency we have already noted with regard to these elites is the extreme lengths to which they have gone in order to achieve these goals. Another we [End Page 321] should note is the tendency to blame supposedly corrupting internal "foreign bodies" whenever these strategies go wrong. The two aspects, indeed, are intimately connected in the sense that by their very effort to attain what is usually unattainable such state strategies are likely to come unstuck, leading not only to increased frustration but with it the further rationalization that this must be the result of the insider enemy or enemies' conscious sabotaging of the state's heroic not to say Herculean efforts. Thus, genocide scenarios regularly crystallize in crisis situations in which a regime's conscious effort at break out from its perceived fetters encounters obstacles which recall some previous failure, either of its own or that committed by a predecessor. The classic example, the Holocaust, whose full-scale implementation began during an early stage of the Nazis' life and death struggle with the Soviet Union in 1941, makes no sense without reference back to the previous major crisis of German state and society in 1918-19, in which by popular consent, Jews qua Jews were held to be responsible. By the same token, the Stalinist drive against the "kulaks," Ukrainian and other "ethnic" peasantries, from 1929 to 1933, has to be set against the crisis of revolution and civil war between 1917 and 1921; the Ittihadist extermination of the Armenians in 1915-16, against the repeated crises of Ottoman state from 1878 through the 1890s, culminating in the Balkan wars of 1912-13; the Indonesian military's extermination of the countrywide communist movement (the PKI) in 1965 against the attempted PKI challenge to nationalist rule in 1948; the Rwandese "Hutu Power" extermination of the Tutsi in 1994 against the backdrop of counterrevolutionary efforts to destabilize and destroy the new postcolonial regime in the period 1959-64. Indeed, the only major example of genocide being perpetrated without notable prequel is the Cambodian Khmer Rouge destruction of ethnic and political groupings from 1975 through 1979, an example which nevertheless points to a quite extraordinary sequence of immediately preceding catastrophes as the grist added to the Khmer Rouge mill. Even with this example, however, what is here termed the perpetrators' "Never Again" syndrome applies: the regime locating in some historic context a communal adversary, or adversaries, supposedly intent on the disruption or sabotage of its transformative-salvationist agenda

THEIR MOVE TO “RECOGNIZE” NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURE REINSCRIBES NATIONAL IDENTITY AND DOMINANT RELATIONS – TURNS THE K
TRAPANI, 2002 (WILLIAM, ASST. PROFESSOR IN DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION STUDIES (RHETORICAL THEORY AND CRITICISM, CRITICAL AND CULTURAL THEORY, AND THE RHETORIC OF VISUAL CULTURE) @ WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY, WINTER, “RE/COGNIZING NATIVE AMERICAN SOVEREIGNTY IN AN AGE OF MANIFEST MANNERS,” THE JOURNAL OF LAW IN SOCIETY, LEXIS)
Without necessarily suggesting that Native Americans abandon efforts to garner recognition, the relative physical, economic, and psychological deprivileging of Native Americans can not be fully addressed until the broader social forces that condition their "quasi-sovereign dependent" condition are also brought into the frame. Such an effort is made more difficult when the subject's ethnic or national "identity" comes to be fetishized. When, as Spivak states, the "founding of agency is seen to be the birth of a new man/woman, the act of [*21] founding, celebrating political independence, comes to be seen as an end in itself." n43 As the bitter disputes between the recognized and the non- recognized demonstrate, moving into the subject position "recognized Native American" may all too easily, even with the delimited "quasi-sovereign" status that acknowledgment offers, foreclose potential connections between groups as well as limit opportunities to challenge the dominant Anglo-Euramerican order. While offering substantial material benefit, the recognition process may also induce a dangerous mentality in which the "self-proximity" of the subject's identity is fixed so exclusively to federal acknowledgement that it cannot move away from or question its (now assumed) origin. The risk of fetishizing an identity conferred by the Anglo- Euramerican order is perhaps even greater for those not yet recognized as Native Americans. Speaking against constitutional abstractions, or of the way they may fail to achieve justice at the level of the subject, is made all the more difficult by the twin dangers inherent to the recognition process: an elevation of the Anglo- Euramerican authority as performative agent and participation in an American origin- story which makes it appear as if the founding of the country was both peaceful and pre-ordained. While accounts of America's origin may (ever increasingly) detail some of the "theater of violence" that took place, the all too common narrative in which the European settlers encountered little to no resistance and instituted a completely "new" government lends the constitutional abstractions, and the policies done in their name, a certain degree of insulation from critique. In order to counter the dangerous abstractions, Spivak argues, what is needed is to make the origin-story more contingent, to detail at every opportunity "how a constitution begs the question of origin." n44 To the degree that Native American complicity with the recognition structure allows the nation to perform its grounding in an aboriginal past, one which has preserved the vitality and viability of an authentic "Indian" presence, the covering over of the violent origin of America's [*22] founding can continue unabated. As a result, the opportunity to dethrone the "clean" and manifest manner/ed origin-story of the racialized Anglo-Euramerican political order may be foreclosed by the current recognition structure.

Specifically, constraining identity to recognizable spaces forces a reinscription of the dominant political order
TRAPANI, 2002 (WILLIAM, ASST. PROFESSOR IN DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION STUDIES (RHETORICAL THEORY AND CRITICISM, CRITICAL AND CULTURAL THEORY, AND THE RHETORIC OF VISUAL CULTURE) @ WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY, WINTER, “RE/COGNIZING NATIVE AMERICAN SOVEREIGNTY IN AN AGE OF MANIFEST MANNERS,” THE JOURNAL OF LAW IN SOCIETY, LEXIS)
Far from resolving these questions, the Hearing restaged the primacy and complexity of these concerns. On the one hand, Rose's faith in a secular epistemology was rebuffed by the bill's eventual defeat as well as by the votes' implicit statement that the process of seeing and recognizing the Other is never as transparent as it seems. Indeed, as James Clifford astutely noted in his ethnographic account of the Mashpee Indians' own recognition trial:[P]owerful ways of looking thus became inescapably problematic. The trial was less a search for the facts of Mashpee Indian culture and history than it was an experiment in translation, part of a long historical conflict and negotiation of 'Indian' and 'American' identities. n6 Representation, or ways of looking, is always more opaque than we can imagine, clouded by attachments that may not be readily apparent to even the most astute of observers. Moreover, because representations are "employed as a truth-effect for the establishment of discursive and representational notions of the real," n7 they are never devoid of the types of relations that seek to maintain power for the one representing against the one being represented. On the other hand, Campbell's capitulation warns of another aspect of recognition and representation. There is an inherent danger for marginalized subjects when inhabiting recognizable spaces even when comporting with what is thought of as self-identity. This is so because [*4] that subject position may be authored by a dominant political order seeking to restrict the subject's agency. […] The recognition process, and the faithful participation in it by many tribes seeking recognition, may induce a dangerous complacency. The danger is that self- proximity of the subject's identity is fixed so exclusively to federal acknowledgement that the political freedom it allows comes to be seen as an end in itself. As such, recognized tribes may be indebted to the Anglo-Euramerican order in ways preventing the opportunity to challenge those very structures placing them at a material and cultural disadvantage. The Lumbee are unique among most American Indian peoples in that they have yet to succeed in their petition for legal recognition as a tribe. Nevertheless, they share one characteristic common to all Native Americans. They are recognizable as Native Americans only to the degree that they conform to representations of the proper Indian subject constructed by the present Anglo-Euramerican cultural order. "[T]he Indian is the simulation of a logocentric other." n21 However, the more redolent implication is that the American Indian has internalized the paleonymic codes so that they are recognizable to themselves only when they comport to that simulation. n22 Gayatri Spivak has persuasively argued that the space afforded to colonized subjects is fraught with problematic and indecipherable politics. n23 In the effort to be seen as they "really are," or to be finally "heard," marginalized subjects may advance the dominant political order by inhabiting manageable subject positions that constrict their sovereignty. n24 […] As I will demonstrate in the next section, the federal recognition process relies upon an effort to establish fidelity to an "originary" identity in a manner that contains the Native subject as the tragic victim of the dominant national character. For essential reasons, this character depends on the existence of the authentically "pure" Indian as its pre- condition. Governmentality is forever trying to create a united populace under the idea of sovereignty, but to be practical about this it must divide that nominally unitary group into separate problems and powers. Its apparent ideological running mate, a national identity, is increasingly troubled by this very problem: "we" need to be more unified because of the effects of globalization on both demographics and representation, so "we" need to call on a shared [*11] heritage. But that heritage is invented, again and again, in reaction to these contemporary difficulties. n26 Contrary to our modern readings of frontier narratives, Gerald Vizenor argues, the early contacts between Indians and Anglo-Euramerican explorers/colonizers were not marked by the latter's fear of stumbling across some wild and threatening Indians, but by the desire for their presence. n27 Indeed, the diaries of early colonizers like Lewis and Clark reveal how the very success of the colonizing mission depended on the presence of natives seeing the explorers as they made their way through the land. Lewis wrote, "we begin to feel considerable anxiety with respect to the Snake Indians, if we do not find them or some other nation who have horses I fear the successful issue of our voyage will be very doubtful." n28 And, "I was overjoyed at the sight of this stranger and had no doubts of obtaining a friendly introduction to his nation provided I could get near enough to him to convince him of our being whitemen." n29 As Larzer Ziff noted: [T]he greatest danger the Indians could pose for Lewis and Clark arose from their absence rather than their presence.What was later to be a cliche in Western adventure fiction, the white man's seeing Indians and taking care to remain unseen by them, was reversed as they strained to see the Indians who they knew were seeing them in order to enter into dealings with them. Ziff's words describe one of the fundamental characteristics of the Anglo- Euramerican's relationship with the "Indian:" in order to define [*12] itself, the Anglo-Euramerican order has insisted on establishing the presence or "presencing," of the Indian subject. The order required a recognizable Native figure by which it may be seen. Why would the Anglo-Euramerican and the American nation need to be seen via a Native American subject? Susan Scheckel has suggested that the American nation has insisted upon the "Indian" figure as a way of tying itself to the continent, of grounding the new democracy and social experiment in a set of values that could then be described as uniquely American. In other words, to justify both the revolutionary violence that founded the nation and to quell the possibility of an endless cycle of revolutions if discontent arose, the American experience had to be narrativized in such a way that it appeared both natural and timeless. The "Indian" provides such an opportunity. As Scheckel argues: Indians were often proposed as the perfect subject matter for a national literature. On a purely aesthetic level, the association of the Indians with the distant past, together with popular conceptions of their status as a dying race, made them an appealingly romantic subject. More important, Indians were a uniquely American subject..Indians could be claimed as America's Gauls and Goths; they represented the pre-history of the nation, offering the means to locate the origins of the nation in a distant, almost mythic past.[B]y claiming Indians, with their long history and mysterious origins, as part of their own national story, nineteenth- century Americans found a way to ground national identity in the distant, inaccessible, 'immemorial past.' n30 None of this should suggest that the Anglo-Euramerican representation(s) of Native American figures are a singular and univocal identity. Indeed, part of the power and utility in the "invented Indian" lies in the complex ambivalence coded into the various representations of Native American figures. The literature and public debate concerning the "Indian problem" could veer between depictions of the noble (not quite civilized) Indian and the savage killer and still preserve the value [*13] of the Native figure precisely because Indians were such liminal figures. White culture writes what is needed for its own preservation into the Native American representation(s). As Aimee Carillo Rowe has suggested, "the primitive body performs the functions that are necessary for whiteness to remain disembodied. The complex and contradictory affect associated with the primitive body - the fear and loathing, the excessive sexuality, the erotic, the exotic -formulate this body as a powerful interpellative site for the white subject." n31 Writing the nation upon the marked primitive body served (serves) to power the nation with an endless supply of "inherently American" qualities. As it was with Lewis and Clark's expedition, the presencing of the Indian subject became a precondition for the production of the American citizenry: alternatively fetishized and disavowed, the "recognizable Indian" became the conduit by which Americans would come to define themselves.

==lng terminals neg== 
===cloud brightening / lost cp=== 
====1nc mcb+lost==== 

[CP TEXT: United States federal government should invest in a sufficient fleet of unmanned, wind-powered, remotely controlled ships for marine cloud brightening. United States federal government should sign the Law of the Sea treaty.]

We’ll clarify.

Cloud brightening solves case – reflects sunlight back into space, decreasing warming – empirically proven to work, and it’s politically popular
Alexander Besant, August 21st, 2012, 8/21 (GlobalPost Breaking News Writer and freelance journalist in the Mediterranean region, recent graduate of Columbia University School of Journalism in New York City, “Cloud Brightening could halt global warming, say scientists,” http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/science/120821/cloud-brightening-could-halt-global-warming-say-scientists >:)

Cloud brightening may solve our climate change problem said an international team of researchers on Tuesday. The geoengineering scheme to halt global warming would see tiny salt particles shot into the air over the ocean creating ultra-bright, long-lasting clouds that reflect sunlight back into space. Some scientists are urging research be done on the possibility that cloud engineering could be one answer to global warming. "What we're trying to do is make the case that this is a beneficial experiment to do," said atmospheric physicist Rob Wood of the University of Washington, reported Red Orbit. "It turns out that a greater number of smaller drops has a greater surface area, so it means the clouds reflect a greater amount of light back into space." More from GlobalPost: Iron seeding of the ocean could help stop global warming According to Live Science, the research would need a fleet of spraying ships over a 62-mile stretch of the ocean that would fire out the particles. The clouds would then be studied by researchers using aircraft, said Environmental Protection. "Cloud seeding" is nothing new. Using the technique to prevent rainfall was used during the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The new idea was published in the journal Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society. Geoengineering has become popular in recent years with many scientists searching for a solution to climate change. Although small-scale "climate intervention" like green roofs or tree planting is already underway, there have yet to be any large-scale projects to manipulate the climate.

Ratifying LOST solves Asia conflict
Stewart M. Patrick, 9-5-2012 (Senior Fellow and Director, Program on International Institutions and Global Governance, “The South China Sea and the Law of the Sea,” http://blogs.cfr.org/patrick/2012/09/05/the-south-china-sea-and-the-law-of-the-sea/ >:)

Conflict is simmering in the South China Sea, where China is butting heads with four members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)—Vietnam, the Phillippines, Malaysia, and Brunei (as well as Taiwan)—over territorial claims. As China seems to gradually step up aggression in the region, the Obama administration continues the seventeen-year-old policy of backing ASEAN as a hedge against nationalist aggression by the burgeoning naval power, China. On Monday, U.S. secretary of state Hillary Clinton announced firm U.S. endorsement for the Statement of ASEAN Foreign Ministers on ASEAN’s Six-Point Principles on the South China Sea. Secretary Clinton also pledged to seek Chinese agreement for its Code of Conduct (CoC) during a meeting with Chinese foreign minister, Yang Jiechi. The CoC would commit parties to abide by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and to resolve disputes peacefully. China opposes multilateral involvement in the region, however, and would prefer to negotiate with each country individually, because presumably it would hold more sway in bilateral talks. In response to Clinton’s announcement, the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson’s remarks clearly exhibited frustration with the United States for professing neutrality while supporting one side. Secretary Clinton was welcomed by an even more caustic sentiment in the state mouthpiece, Xinhua: “The U.S. government also has to understand that when it comes to matters concerning China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, Beijing will not compromise with any one [sic], including Washington. The United States should stop its role as a sneaky trouble maker sitting behind some nations in the region and pulling strings.” China is by no means the only country to be jostling for advantage. Vietnam, for example, adopted a law on June 21, 2012 claiming sovereignty over the islands, and Vietnamese leaders allowed a rare protest of anti-Chinese sentiment. But ultimately, China has the greatest potential to threaten freedom of navigation, and U.S. interests in a region through which “at least 50 percent” of the global trade moves. Of course, Secretary Clinton’s lectures about the Code of Conduct would be more credible if the United States were a party to UNCLOS. But Congressional Republicans continue to stall ratification of the treaty. Senate Democrats will likely bring UNLOS to a vote after the November elections, during the lame-duck session of Congress, when some representatives might be less averse to casting a controversial vote. But even then, despite universal support for the convention from Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, and U.S. multinational corporations, republican Senators might still marshal a blocking coalition. And later in the future, the treaty’s prospects obviously hinge on the November elections. The 2012 republican platform expressly condemns the treaty—in a notable departure from the Republican administration of George W. Bush. While Mitt Romney has remained silent on the issue this year, he would be unlikely to support ratification. As I’ve written before, it is high time for the United States to ratify the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. With tensions rising in the South and East China Seas, the need is only growing.

===asia advantage=== 

====1nc asia f/l==== 

Realignment to Guam happening now
JPENS 9/25 (Jiji Press English News Service, 9/25/11, “U.S. Official Hopeful for Budget to Move Marines in Japan to Guam”, ProQuest | AK)

Washington, Sept. 24 (Jiji Press)--A senior U.S. Department of Defense official showed an optimistic prospect Monday for securing a budget in fiscal 2013 starting October for the planned transfer of U.S. Marines in Okinawa Prefecture, southern Japan, to Guam. "We do think we will have some ability to expend resources in this coming fiscal year," Principal Undersecretary of Defense for Policy Kathleen Hicks said in a speech, citing certain progress in negotiations with Congress members. The U.S. Congress entirely rejected the government's new fiscal 2012 budget request for the transfer, terming the plan sloppy. Spending allowed in the past and unused funds provided by the Japanese government have also been frozen. The U.S. Senate, which has strong influence on determining budgets, has been showing a tough stance on spending on the Guam transfer under the fiscal 2013 budget. Hicks said that she sees "significant movement" over the last six weeks after U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary Ashton Carter has engaged personally with several members of Congress on the issue. "I'm very hopeful that that portends a good trajectory," she added. The U.S. fiscal 2013 budget is expected to be adopted by the year-end after discussions at relevant committees of both the Senate and the House of Representatives.END

Makes their impact inevitable
James A. Kent and Dr. Eric Casino, 3-15-2011, global community analyst with extensive experience with geographic focused social and economic development policy in Pacific Rim countries, President of the JKA Group and Natural Borders, a human geographic mapping company, and social anthropologist and policy consultant with a long-term interest in international business and development programs in Southeast Asia and the Pacific, has spent time as an East-West Center research fellow and worked as a consultant with the World Bank in the Philippines, adjunct faculty, Hawaii Pacific University in Honolulu, “ Hawaii and Guam: Strategic Convergence Zones for the United States Forward Defense Strategy in the Pacific Rim,” Small Wars Journal, http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/journal/docs-temp/710-kent.pdf

This second island chain is not comparable to the size, composition, resources, and strategic value of the first island chain. In this first island seascape the Chinese Navy will see little but trouble, says Kaplan. This is because first island chain island units are themselves nation-states and are wary of being under the shadow of Greater China hegemony. Japan once tried to dominate much of this first island chain under its discredited greater East Asia CoProsperity Sphere. Furthermore there is the growing consolidation of the 10-nation ASEAN political and economic conglomerate that has a much greater frontage than China on the South China Sea and therefore having common claim on it. Some western geostrategists in the U.S. Naval War College consider the chain as a kind of ―Great Wall in reverse, where a well organized line of U.S. allies ―serve as sort of guard towers to monitor and possibly block China’s access to the Pacific Ocean. 4 / The Potential for Unintended Consequences / This analogy is ambivalent with serious hidden contradictions. If one accepts this line as marking China’s forward defense area, it unwittingly reveals a willingness to recognize and concede China’s claim that the South China Sea behind this wall is indeed China’s—a claim that the West and countries in South Asia, Southeast Asia, and Northeast Asia are naturally denying. Any intention to box in China behind this first island chain is contrary to the principles of freedom of navigation that the United Nations desires all countries to respect in the case of the South China Sea. Concern about encirclement appears to be one major reason for China’s buildup of Hainan Island as a major submarine base and is an open preparation for defensive and assertive activity in maritime zones surrounding China. In view of these developments, there is new thinking that desires to define and reconfigure the South China Sea as the Asian Mediterranean-- a concept of maritime commons, open to free, international navigation. 5 / No nation has a monopoly or territorial claim on the Mediterranean, and neither should there be in the Asian Mediterranean. The more the West strives to box in China behind this wall, the more China is motivated to counter by controlling navigation inside the South China Sea by territorializing it as if it were a landmass. However there is one caveat that is of critical importance. Taiwan has defense agreements with the U.S. and is entwined with the countries in the first island chain. If China should take over Taiwan (or ―when as some analysts say), it would open up this geographic area to China’s influence literally over night by assuming control of the trade and defense agreements that Taiwan has with nations in the Pacific Rim, especially in the South China Sea. This expectation makes the second island chain as the U.S. forward defense area of critical importance to the whole Pacific region. This essentially means that there has to be policy recognition and commitment that puts Hawaii and Guam in a set of power relationships comparable to those of the first island chain that have dominated the Pacific for centuries.

Alt cause – LOST
Michael T. Klare, September 4th, 2012, 9/4 (Foreign Affairs, “Island Grabbing in Asia,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/138093/michael-t-klare/island-grabbing-in-asia >:)

Recently, a group of 34 legislators promised to vote against the UN Convention on the Law of The Seas, ensuring that the bill will not be ratified. Their move will make it harder for the United States to continue to build up a rules-based order in the South China Sea. It could also spell the end of treaties as a tool of U.S. national security policy. Last month, Japanese activists planted their country's flag on one of the Senkaku Islands (which the Chinese call the Diaoyu Islands), a chain claimed by China, Japan, and Taiwan. The move sparked protests in China and inspired headlines in the West, but the provocation was hardly surprising. The three bodies of water in East Asia -- the Sea of Japan (bounded by Japan, North Korea, South Korea, and Russia), the East China Sea (bordered by China and Japan's Ryukyu Islands), and the South China Sea (surrounded by Borneo, China, the Philippines, and Vietnam) -- are home to hundreds of disputed islands, atolls, and shoals. And in the last few years, the diplomatic and militaristic struggles to assert authority have become increasingly brazen. On one level, patriotism is making things worse. Japan's tussle with China over the Senkaku/Diaoyu Islands, for example, is a touchstone for those in Japan who fear China's growing political and economic might. Likewise, South Korea's assertion of control over the Dokdo Islands (known as the Takeshima Islands in Japan) is viewed at home as a patriotic riposte to Japan's 40-year occupation of the peninsula. Beyond symbolism, however, these three bodies of water flow over East Asia's Outer Continental Shelf and the submerged deltas of many major river systems -- geological features that suggest the presence of vast deposits of oil and natural gas. Yet, although the resources have been there for millennia, it is only in the last decade that the energy sector has even started to develop extractive technologies that will eventually make these reserves accessible. Nobody wants to lose out, especially because East Asia is energy hungry. The region is home to only three percent of the world's proven oil reserves and eight percent of its natural gas reserves. China, for example, already imports 58 percent of the oil and 22 percent of the gas it uses each year. Japan is far more dependent, importing nearly all of its oil and gas. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, in the next 25 years, Asia's energy consumption is expected to grow faster than anywhere else in the world. Eager for energy security, these countries have long sought to exploit their offshore oil and gas reserves. Until recently, however, given the difficulty of operating in the blue-water seas, that was all but impossible. But eager to take advantage of oil and gas reservoirs in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Africa, Western energy firms have developed drilling rigs capable of operating in a mile of water or more. Now that the necessary technology is within reach, powers in Asia are determined to assert what they argue are their rightful claims to vast amounts of energy. Just who owns the potential riches, however, is a matter of some contention. Under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), coastal states are allowed to claim a 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone extending from their land borders. All of the countries in the region have done so. But China has also laid claim to virtually all of the South China Sea on the basis that it has periodically occupied the Spratly and Paracel islands, small clusters of atolls and shoals that take up the northern and southernmost reaches of the sea. China has further cited provisions of UNCLOS that allow it to develop exclusively its Outer Continental Shelf (even if the shelf extends beyond 200 miles) and stake out a large stretch of the East China Sea. Of course, many other countries have claims in those seas, too. Chinese behavior is a good example of the trend. Beijing's claims on the South China Sea (and the islands within it) are long-standing, as are its intentions to exploit the undersea hydrocarbon reserves there. In the past few years, however, it has stepped up its use of force. In June 2011, it harassed survey ships working for PetroVietnam in Vietnamese-claimed waters. Then, in April 2012, Chinese ships blocked efforts by the Philippine Navy to combat illegal fishing by Chinese ships in Philippine-claimed waters. Such belligerence is in line with hard-line elements of the Chinese military that have recently assumed a more assertive role in foreign affairs. But the aggression also coincides with the China National Offshore Oil Corporation's acquisition of its first deepwater drilling rig and announcement of plans to operate in the South China Sea. The Chinese drilling rig, the CNOOC 981, was first deployed in May and sited some 200 miles southeast of Hong Kong, in an area also claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam. As the energy company's chairman, Wang Yilin, put it, "Large deepwater drilling rigs are our mobile national territory and strategic weapon for promoting the development of the country's offshore oil industry." The firm also chose the occasion to auction off to foreign and domestic corporations a number of exploration blocks in areas of the South China Sea situated close to Vietnam. Needless to say, the move infuriated Hanoi. The Vietnamese, too, want to drill in deeper waters, but their national oil company, PetroVietnam, lacks the technological capacity to do so on its own. In recent years, it has been teaming up with foreign firms -- including Chevron and ExxonMobil -- to explore farther offshore. Last October, ExxonMobil reported finding a large natural gas field off the coast of central Vietnam. The Vietnamese say the field lies within their 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone. The Chinese have countered by asserting that the land falls within their territory and warning non-Chinese companies to desist from operating there. To hammer home the message, Chinese ships have, on several occasions, sliced PetroVietnam cables to underwater sensors. The dispute between South Korea and Japan over the Dokdo/ Takeshima Islands is a variation on the same theme. So far, the two sides have fought mainly over fishing rights in the area. But the waters are also thought to harbor vast quantities of methane hydrates -- frozen bubbles of natural gas trapped in ice crystals on the ocean floor. If harvested safely (methane is a highly potent greenhouse gas, so any uncontrolled release would accelerate global warming), the hydrates would be a huge cache of energy. South Korea and Japan have raced to develop the technology to mine the undersea gold and hope to begin commercial extraction by the end of this decade. Once that starts, the seabed around the Dokdo/Takeshima Islands would become extremely valuable, rendering the fight over them far more economically critical. The Obama administration has been caught off guard by the intensity of these disputes, which are threatening progress on a wide range of other issues. The disagreement between Japan and South Korea over the Dokdo (Takeshima) Islands, for example, has sabotaged plans for improved defense ties between the two countries and hurt U.S. efforts to isolate North Korea. Increased Chinese-Japanese tensions over the Senkaku/Diaoyu Islands are damaging efforts to boost trade in the region, another U.S. objective. In the South China Sea, the Obama administration has sought to bolster its ties with Vietnam, the Philippines, and other local powers by supporting their drive to negotiate en masse with China over the contested islands. Although welcomed in Hanoi and Manila, the strategy has angered Beijing and put a damper on Sino-American relations.

No Asia war – China wants compromise
Niniek Karmini, August 14th, 2012, 8/14 (AP Writer, “Beijing hints at compromise on South China Sea,” http://www.irrawaddy.org/archives/11400 >:)

JAKARTA, Indonesia—China’s top diplomat said on Friday the country was willing to ease differences over the handling of territorial disputes in the South China Sea and insisted that maintaining peace there was a shared responsibility. Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi is on a two-day visit to Indonesia after his Jakarta counterpart Marty Natalegawa made whirlwind visits to Southeast Asian nations trying to smooth discord over handling of South China Sea disputes. The foreign ministers of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) failed to issue a concluding joint statement at their recent summit for the first time in the bloc’s 45-year history. Cambodia, the host country and a close China ally, refused to sign off on language sought by the Philippines and Vietnam mentioning their individual disputes with China over the South China Sea. Yang said at their joint news conference Friday that China was willing to work with Asean to implement the Declaration of Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea. That document was signed by Asean and China in 2002 and discourages aggressive acts that might spark clashes, but it has not yet been implemented. China was also willing “on the basis of consensus to work toward the eventual adoption of the Code of Conduct on the South China Sea,” Yang said. China has yet to sign that document, an advanced framework for peacefully resolving disputes in the South China Sea. Four Asean members—Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and the Philippines—plus China and Taiwan claim all or part of the South China Sea, which is rich in fishing, has some of the world’s busiest sea lanes and is believed to have vast energy deposits. China has long said it wants to handle disputes over its claims bilaterally, while the other claimants have tried to raise the issue in international forums. Yang did not raise those differences in his remarks on Friday. “I’m assured very much that our diplomacy is very much on track,” Natalegawa said. “We still have the Declaration on Conduct to implement and the Code of Conduct to work toward.”

No Asia war
Bitzinger and Desker 2008 – senior fellow and dean of S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies respectively (Richard A. Bitzinger, Barry Desker, “Why East Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, December 2008, http://pdfserve.informaworld.com-/678328_731200556_906256449.pdf)

The Asia-Pacific region can be regarded as a zone of both relative insecurity and strategic stability. It contains some of the world’s most significant flashpoints – the Korean peninsula, the Taiwan Strait, the Siachen Glacier – where tensions between nations could escalate to the point of major war. It is replete with unresolved border issues; is a breeding ground for transnationa terrorism and the site of many terrorist activities (the Bali bombings, the Manila superferry bombing); and contains overlapping claims for maritime territories (the Spratly Islands, the Senkaku/Diaoyu Islands) with considerable actual or potential wealth in resources such as oil, gas and fisheries. Finally, the Asia-Pacific is an area of strategic significance with many key sea lines of communication and important chokepoints. Yet despite all these potential crucibles of conflict, the Asia-Pacific, if not an area of serenity and calm, is certainly more stable than one might expect. To be sure, there are separatist movements and internal struggles, particularly with insurgencies, as in Thailand, the Philippines and Tibet. Since the resolution of the East Timor crisis, however, the region has been relatively free of open armed warfare. Separatism remains a challenge, but the break-up of states is unlikely. Terrorism is a nuisance, but its impact is contained. The North Korean nuclear issue, while not fully resolved, is at least moving toward a conclusion with the likely denuclearisation of the peninsula. Tensions between China and Taiwan, while always just beneath the surface, seem unlikely to erupt in open conflict any time soon, especially given recent Kuomintang Party victories in Taiwan and efforts by Taiwan and China to re-open informal channels of consultation as well as institutional relationships between organisations responsible for cross-strait relations. And while in Asia there is no strong supranational political entity like the European Union, there are many multilateral organisations and international initiatives dedicated to enhancing peace and stability, including the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum, the Proliferation Security Initiative and the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation. In Southeast Asia, countries are united in a common eopolitical and economic organisation – the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) – which is dedicated to peaceful economic, social and cultural development, and to the promotion of regional peace and stability. ASEAN has played a key role in conceiving and establishing broader regional institutions such as the East Asian Summit, ASEAN+3 (China, Japan and South Korea) and the ASEAN Regional Forum. All this suggests that war in Asia – while not inconceivable – is unlikely.

China’s nuke arsenal sucks – they can’t use it even if they wanted to
Lieber, and Press, 6
(Keir A, Assistant professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, AND Daryl G, Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth, “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy,” Foreign Affairs, Vol 85, No 2, NJ)

China's nuclear arsenal is even more vulnerable to a U.S. attack. A U.S. first strike could succeed whether it was launched as a surprise or in the midst of a crisis during a Chinese alert. China has a limited strategic nuclear arsenal. The People's Liberation Army currently possesses no modern SSBNs or long-range bombers. Its naval arm used to have two ballistic missile submarines, but one sank, and the other, which had such poor capabilities that it never left Chinese waters, is no longer operational. China's medium-range bomber force is similarly unimpressive: the bombers are obsolete and vulnerable to attack. According to unclassified U.S. government assessments, China's entire intercontinental nuclear arsenal consists of 18 stationary single-warhead ICBMs. These are not ready to launch on warning: their warheads are kept in storage and the missiles themselves are unfueled. (China's ICBMs use liquid fuel, which corrodes the missiles after 24 hours. Fueling them is estimated to take two hours.) The lack of an advanced early warning system adds to the vulnerability of the ICBMs. It appears that China would have no warning at all of a U.S. submarine-launched missile attack or a strike using hundreds of stealthy nuclear-armed cruise missiles.

Nuclear prolif is stabilizing – prevents conventional conflict and miscalc.
Peter N Madison, Mar 2006, US Navy Lieutenant, “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN,” Naval Postgraduate School Thesis, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA445779

Owing to the vast destruction nuclear weapons can generate, they have ironically guaranteed security for the nations that possess them. Any attack against a nuclear state carries the risk of provoking a devastating response. Consequently, the benefits and dangers of nuclear weapon proliferation have been debated for decades. Perhaps the most debatable point is whether more nuclear states advance or weaken world security. Naturally, this issue remains moot. Yet, one must concede that the world has judiciously avoided the use of nuclear weapons for sixty years, suggesting the avoidance is attributable to more than luck. Professor Jan Breemer of the Navy War College asserts that at some point, luck loses its random nature and reflects skill.10 / 1. Nuclear Optimists: “More May Be Better”11 / Nuclear Optimists advocate a gradual increase in the number of nuclear states. They argue that a cautious increase does not correspond to an increased likelihood that nuclear weapons will be used. They further contend that this gradual spread is far better than if it were rapid or nonexistent.12 Supporters point to over sixty years in which deterrence helped prevent nuclear conflict. According to Professor Kenneth Waltz of the University of California at Berkeley, “The world has enjoyed more years of peace since 1945 than had been known in modern history.”13 Indeed, there has been no general war in this period, in spite of a variety of confrontations that could lead to rapid escalation and conflict.14 Instead nuclear weapons made nuclear war an unlikely possibility.15 / Professor Waltz argues that if deterrence produces the ideal, then the opposite must be correct: not having a clear balance of terror preventing a misstep leads to uncertainty of action by a state. He states that defeated countries like Germany following World War II, which fought conventionally, will at the very worst survive with limited suffering. Nuclear deterrence assures a totality of defeat; therefore, no rational actor will risk destruction.16 Instead of instability and uncertainty, nuclear weapons increase stability and certainty, making “miscalculation difficult and politically pertinent predictions easy.”17

Preventing spread of nuclear weapons causes global bioweapon shift.
Raymond A. Zilinskas, 2000, frmr clinical microbiologist, director of the Chemical and Biological Weapons Nonproliferation Program, Center for Nonproliferation Studies of Monterey Institute of International Studies, Biological Warfare: Modern Offense and Defense, p. 1-2

There are many who believe that today's bioscientists and chemical engineers working in unison and wielding the techniques of molecular biology developed since the early 1970s could, if so commanded, develop militarily effective biological weapons within a fairly short time. If this supposition is correct, our perception of biological weapons as being undependable, uncontrollable, and unreliable must change. The reason is simple: if these weapons are demonstrated to possess properties that make it possible for commanders to effect controlled, confined mass destruction on command, all governments would be forced to construct defenses against them and some undoubtedly would be tempted to arm their military with these weapons that would be both powerful and relatively inexpensive to acquire. Ironically, as tougher international controls are put into place to deter nations from seeking to acquire chemical and nuclear weapons, leaders may be even more drawn to biological arms as the most accessible form of weapon of mass destruction [WMD].

Extinction
Richard J Ochs, 6-9-2002, frmr president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project and a member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html

Of all the weapons of mass destruction [WMD], the genetically engineered biological weapons, many without a known cure or vaccine, are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. / While a "nuclear winter," resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control. Biological weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated. There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. Abolition of chemical weapons is less of a priority because, while they can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment. Like the Holocaust, once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With nuclear and biological weapons, the killing will probably never end. Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. / Potentially worse than that, bio-engineered agents by the hundreds with no known cure could wreck even greater calamity on the human race than could persistent radiation. AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.

===trade advantage=== 
====1nc trade f/l==== 

This advantage is silly – their author says that passing SKFTA and the Columbia FTA would solve – that’s already happened – SKFTA independently solves the Asia advantage
Smith, 1ac author, 11 (Rod, Editor – Feedstuffs, “US Trade Leadership Slipping,” Feedstuffs Food Link, 6-24, http://www.feedstuffsfoodlink.com/ME2/dirmod.asp?sid=&nm=&type=news&mod=News&mid=9A02E3B96F2A415ABC72CB5F516B4C10&tier=3&nid=FAA1AC2A45944313AAC3C0F446B2E2C4)

TRADE works. Trade creates economic positives, allowing producers to be profitable and sustainable and to expand; trade creates jobs and strong, vibrant economies for exporting nations. Trade also helps nations develop and promote peace. However, the U.S., once the world's vanguard in negotiating trade agreements and urging fair and free trade, is rapidly sliding into the background as other countries and regions implement trade pacts in which the U.S. is not a member. This not only affects our economic health but our leadership in the world. President Barack Obama has said he believes in trade and wants the U.S. to double exports by 2015, but his actions don't seem to support his talk. The U.S. has had three very important trade agreements ready to go to Congress for ratification since the day Obama took office, but he has not yet even submitted the implementing legislation much less urged Congress to act on them. The agreements would substantially increase U.S. exports -- including agricultural exports like beef, pork, poultry, grains and oilseeds -- and would lead to thousands of new jobs. One of the agreements is with South Korea, and the Korean ambassador to the U.S. recently said the pact would serve as a signal to the Asian Pacific region that the U.S. will be a major presence there, contributing to peace and stability. The other two agreements, with Colombia and Panama, would increase U.S. competitiveness there and provide those countries with resources to build their economies and nations. It's time for the President to hand over the three pacts to Congress, work with congressional leadership to get them ratified and put the U.S. back into its prominent role in global trade.

Trade leadership doesn’t decrease risk of conflict
Gelpi and Greico 05, Associate Professor and Professor of Political Science, Duke University (Christopher, Joseph, “Democracy, Interdependence, and the Sources of the Liberal Peace”, Journal of Peace Research)

As we have already emphasized, increasing levels of trade between an autocratic and democratic country are unlikely to constrain the former from initiating militarized disputes against the latter. As depicted in Figure 1, our analysis indicates that an increase in trade dependence by an autocratic challenger on a democratic target from zero to 5% of the former's GDP would increase the probability of the challenger’s dispute initiation from about 0.31% to 0.29%. Thus, the overall probability of dispute initiation by an autocratic country against a democracy is fairly high (given the rarity of disputes) at 23 nearly .3% per country per year. Moreover, increased trade does little or nothing to alter that risk. Increases in trade dependence also have little effect on the likelihood that one autocracy will initiate a conflict with another. In this instance, the probability of dispute initiation remains constant at 0.33% regardless of the challenger’s level of trade dependence.

Congestion is structurally inevitable
Anthony Downs, October 1st, 2004 (Senior Fellow @ Brookings, scholar in public policy and public administration, “Why Traffic Congestion Is Here to Stay… and Will Get Worse,” http://www.uctc.net/access/25/Access%2025%20-%2004%20-%20Traffic%20Congestion%20is%20Here%20to%20Stay.pdf >:)

EVERYONE HATES TRAFFIC CONGESTION. But despite all attempted remedies, it keeps getting worse. Why don’t they do something about it? The answer: because rising traffic congestion is an inescapable condition in all large and growing metropolitan areas across the world, from Los Angeles to Tokyo, from Cairo to São Paulo. Peak-hour traffic congestion is a result of the way modern societies operate, and of residents’ habits that cause them to overload roads and transit systems every day. Traffic congestion is not essentially a problem. It’s the solution to our basic mobility problem, which is that too many people want to move at the same times each day. Efficient operation of the economy and our school systems requires that people go to work, go to school, and run errands during about the same hours so they can interact with each other. We cannot alter that basic requirement without crippling our economy and society. This problem marks every major metropolitan area in the world. In the United States, the vast majority of people wanting to move during rush hours use private vehicles, for two reasons. One is that most Americans reside in low-density settlements that public transit cannot serve effectively. Second, for most people private vehicles are more comfortable, faster, more private, more convenient in trip timing, and more flexible than public transit. Therefore, around the world, as household incomes rise, more and more people shift from less expensive public modes to privately owned cars and trucks. With 87.9 percent of America’s daily commuters using private vehicles, and millions wanting to move at the same times of day, our basic mobility problem is this: the road system does not have enough capacity to handle peak-hour loads without forcing people to wait in line for limited road space. “Waiting in line” is the definition of congestion.

Alt cause – Container shortages
Lutes, 2010 – Deputy Managing Director, Seaport Division, Port of Seattle, Washington (Phil, “Hearing on ‘Doubling U.S. exports: Are U.S. Seaports Ready for the Challenge?’” Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness, Senate Committee on Finance, April 29, 2010, http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910pltest.pdf)//MM

EXPORT CONTAINER SHORTAGE: 6 Let me turn to a very near term problem that, if resolved, could boost U.S. exports overnight – a shortage of empty containers for exports. As you know, consumers are simply not spending like they did during the days of easy credit and the run-up in real estate prices. The number of containers loaded with imported goods moving through our ports has decreased dramatically. Ships loaded with import containers destined for the U.S. generate the supply of empty containers and vessel space for U.S. exports. Due to the substantial decline in imports, carriers have anchored ships, consolidated services and dropped port calls to offset losses. Ultimately, this translates to fewer opportunities for our exporters to move their products. In addition, the weak U.S. dollar has generated a surge in demand for U.S. exports when containers are in short supply. To compound matters, U.S. exports are typically two to three times heavier per container than imports. That means ships carrying exports can’t be loaded to full capacity, which diminishes the space available for exports. But even when robust imports provide a steady supply of containers for export cargo, it can be expensive to reposition those containers where they’re needed. That’s because imported goods, and the containers they’re in, move primarily to large metropolitan areas where there’s a high demand for imported apparel, footwear, electronics and machinery. In contrast, many U.S. exports tend to originate in rural areas. Products such as agricultural goods, minerals, timber and other natural resources make up a large percentage of our export commodities. The container imbalance has become so extreme that there’s even a shortage of containers for exports originating near urban area ports. This short supply of containers, combined with constrained vessel capacity leads ocean carriers to make tough decisions when export demand is high. Carriers become very careful about how they manage this limited space. They are also careful about how they manage empty containers. Often, carriers are so eager to get containers back to Asia for the higher revenue imports, they actually load empties back on the ship at the expense of export loads. 7

No impact – 93 empirical examples
Miller 2K
(Morris Miller, economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, Winter 2000, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol. 25, Iss. 4, “Poverty as a cause of wars?” p. Proquest)

The question may be reformulated. Do wars spring from a popular reaction to a sudden economic crisis that exacerbates poverty and growing disparities in wealth and incomes? Perhaps one could argue, as some scholars do, that it is some dramatic event or sequence of such events leading to the exacerbation of poverty that, in turn, leads to this deplorable denouement. This exogenous factor might act as a catalyst for a violent reaction on the part of the people or on the part of the political leadership who would then possibly be tempted to seek a diversion by finding or, if need be, fabricating an enemy and setting in train the process leading to war. According to a study undertaken by Minxin Pei and Ariel Adesnik of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, there would not appear to be any merit in this hypothesis. After studying ninety-three episodes of economic crisis in twenty-two countries in Latin America and Asia in the years since the Second World War they concluded that:19 Much of the conventional wisdom about the political impact of economic crises may be wrong ... The severity of economic crisis - as measured in terms of inflation and negative growth - bore no relationship to the collapse of regimes ... (or, in democratic states, rarely) to an outbreak of violence ... In the cases of dictatorships and semidemocracies, the ruling elites responded to crises by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).

Econ’s resilient – innovations solve
Leonhardt, New York Times, National Bureau of Economic Research, 2005 [David, October 8, Business Cycle Data]

MEMPHIS - The nearly empty Airbus 310 was coasting through the Alabama night sky when a message flashed in the cockpit. "DIVERT," it said, before using code to order the plane to land in Atlanta. The pilot banked the jet to the east and a half-hour later it was on the ground. There, its cargo door opened up to a group of waiting FedEx employees who began filling it with 17,000 pounds of cargo. It had been a busy day for Georgia businesses, and FedEx's regular nightly flights from Atlanta to the company's Memphis hub were overbooked with packages. So the local crew made a call to a sprawling, low-slung room here at headquarters, where people hunch over computer screens showing weather maps and flight plans, and asked for help from the five empty FedEx jets that roam over the United States every night. The recent birth of that small fleet, at a multimillion-dollar price tag, explains a lot about how the nation's economy has become so much more resilient. Think of it as the FedEx economy, a system that constantly recalibrates itself to cope with surprises. The United States has endured an almost biblical series of calamities in recent years - wars, hurricanes, financial scandals, soaring oil prices and rising interest rates - but the economy keeps chugging along at an annual growth rate of roughly 3 percent. It has been able to do so with the help of technology that allows businesses to react ever more quickly to changes. But with little notice, those reactions have also created a new feature of the business cycle: the micro-recession. When one of them strikes, activity slows for a few weeks, sometimes in just certain sectors or regions, as companies adjust to a dip in demand. It has happened much more often in the last few years than in earlier expansions, but growth has picked up each time, thanks in part to the adjustments that businesses have made. No company embodies this change, for better and worse, quite like FedEx. When Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, sees Frederick W. Smith, FedEx's chief executive, during halftime of Washington Redskins games, Mr. Greenspan uses the company's vast reach to check in on the economy. "He always asks, 'We still O.K.?' " said Mr. Smith, a part-owner of the team whose stadium suite abuts the one Mr. Greenspan uses. More formally, Federal Reserve staff members rely on FedEx and the nearly six million packages it delivers every day for real-time data that helps set interest rate policy. The company's around-the-world flights - fuller coming from Asia than going to it - are the shipping lanes of the global economy, bringing goods from Chinese factories to American shelves in just days. FedEx technology helps Procter & Gamble managers send more Crest to Wal-Mart whenever somebody buys a tube, and the managers can then watch the replacement move through the supply chain from their computer screens. All this - combined with financial innovations that allow companies to hedge their bets and, some say, the deregulation of pivotal transportation industries - has helped mute the economy's swings. The business cycle has certainly not been eliminated, as some dreamers suggested during the 1990's boom, but recessions really do seem to happen less often. There have been only two recessions in the last two decades. From the late 1960's through the early 80's, the economy endured four [recessions] of them, including two of the deepest in decades, which left millions of people out of work. "The more flexible an economy, the greater its ability to self-correct after inevitable, often unanticipated disturbances," Mr. Greenspan argued in a recent speech. "The impressive performance of the U.S. economy over the past couple of decades, despite shocks that in the past would have surely produced marked economic contraction, offers the clearest evidence of the benefits of increased market flexibility." Of course, new technologies and global shipping lanes are also big reasons that job growth has been so disappointing during this expansion and that the gains from recent economic growth have gone mainly to highly skilled white-collar workers. In Woodbridge, N.J., for example, a large FedEx shipping center can sometimes seem void of human beings. And revenue at the express-shipping division has grown almost 30 percent since 2002, while the full-time work force has declined slightly. The number of part-time workers has grown. Across the economy, quick reactions, like asking workers to put in more hours one week and fewer the next, have helped lead to the business cycle's new hiccups. Mr. Smith calls them "mini-recessions."

Deficit spending crowds out the private sector and kills dollar hegemony – past two presidents and World War II prove
Steve Stanek, March 11th, 2011 (research fellow at the Heartland Institute, managing editor of Budget & Tax News, “Two years of epic stimulus failures: Keynesian spending creates nothing but a wealth of debt,” pg. l/n >:)

We've just passed the second anniversary of "economic stimulus" under President Obama. Aside from spending on the stimulus itself - the actual price tag soon climbed from $787 billion to $821 billion - not much else has been stimulated. Nearly a trillion dollars have been poured into the U.S. economy, courtesy of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Result? Unemployment has barely budged, housing prices continue to fall in many markets and more mortgages slip into foreclosure. How can this be happening when so many people in government assure us that government spending spurs the economy? Because it's not true. For government to pour money into the economy, it must take money out of the economy in the first place. To hand out money, government must first take money from taxpayers. It's like moving money from the left pocket to the right pocket. It doesn't make us any wealthier. What it really stimulates is more government, not more economic activity. Or government can borrow money, which is simply taking money now and promising to pay it back later with money that will come from taxpayers who are around when "later" arrives. Government borrowing reduces the amount of money available for private businesses and individuals to borrow. The federal government also can create money, which leads to price inflation, making today's dollars worth less than yesterday's. We're already seeing the impact of a less-valuable dollar in items ranging from gold and silver to cotton and gasoline, all of which are at or near record prices. As high prices for essentials such as food and energy work their way through the economy, consumers will have less money to spend on everything else. The nonsensical idea that government should spend more in economic downturns stems from "Keynesianism," which is all the rage in government policy circles today, and for good reason. It provides cover to people who believe in expansive, interventionist government. Keynesianism claims government can spur demand for goods by spending money to make up for what private businesses and consumers are not spending. This provides an excuse to grow government, even when - especially when - the economy is slowing or contracting, and it gives government more power. But if government spending can boost an economy, how did the U.S. economy ever decline in the first place? When George W. Bush became president, total federal spending was $1.8 trillion. When he left office eight years later in January 2009, federal spending topped $3.4 trillion. And by 2009, the country was in the second year of the worst economic downturn since the 1930s. Spending under Mr. Bush increased at more than twice the rate of increase under President Clinton during the 1990s, a decade many Democrats now clamoring for even more government spending point to as years of strong economic growth. And let us not forget state and local governments. They did their part to supposedly prevent an economic slowdown by expanding their spending by more than $1 trillion - from $1.74 trillion in 2000 to $2.83 trillion in 2008 - when the financial crisis began. Record government spending did nothing to stop the recession. More government spending will do nothing to end it. Ah, but what about World War II spending, ending the Great Depression, you say? It did no such thing. Keynesian economists in the 1940s warned the end of war spending and return of millions of soldiers would result in an economy every bit as bad as or worse than we had during the Depression. Instead, federal spending plummeted from 40 percent of the economy to less than 15 percent (it's about 25 percent today), unemployment fell [falling] to less than 4 percent, and the economy boomed - the opposite of what many government economists said would happen, and another refutation of Keynesianism. The way to end this recession is for government to cut spending, shrink the deficit, end corporate welfare, stop using taxpayer money to bail out politically connected businesses and industries, and reduce regulations that make investing for the future more difficult.

UK solves famine impact
Ravelo (Devex Staff writer) 8-2-2012 Jenny Lei, “NO TEETH? NEW FOOD AID TREATY WINS EU SUPPORT” http://www.devex.com/en/blogs/49/blogs_entries/78831?source=MostPopularNews_4

A new blueprint to help developing countries improve access to food is a step closer to taking effect. Kristalina Georgieva, the EU commissioner for international cooperation, humanitarian aid and crisis response, signed the treaty, called the Food Assistance Convention, on Wednesday (Aug. 1). The Cyprus Presidency of the European Parliament also signed the same day, Georgieva’s spokesman David Sharrock confirmed to Devex. The treaty is meant to replace the Food Aid Convention of 1999, a binding agreement between donors that set a fixed minimum amount of food aid to be given to developing countries; it expired in June. The new agreement supports local and regional procurement, and several forms of food assistance such as cash and vouchers. But several nongovernmental organizations and experts have voiced concerns about some provisions in the treaty. Unlike its predecessor, the new agreement does not set a fixed annual commitment of food aid from signatories. This, according to experts, will provide donors the chance to increase or decrease the amount of food assistance they provide yearly. “If signatories are going to do what they would have done anyway, what is the additional value of international treaty commitments?” Overseas Development Institute’s Ed Clay said in a blog post republished by Devex. Sharrock, the ECHO spokesman, stressed that the new agreement is meant to improve, not increase food assistance. “It is about making sure that food assistance is no longer about the disposal of surpluses, but more about what is really needed,” he explained. Interestingly, the new treaty is not open to nondonor countries — at least initially, according to Nadia Khoury of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. Initially, the agreement is limited to 35 countries, including EU members as well as Argentina, Australia, Canada, Croatia, Norway, Switzerland, the United States and Japan, which was the first to sign it in July. Once at least five countries ratify the treaty, it can be enforced and other countries may accede. The European Commission is working closely with the European Parliament to have the treaty ratified by November, according to Sharrock. Others may sign on by January.

===warming advantage=== 
====1nc warming f/l==== 

Investors already perceive alternative energy as the single biggest economic opportunity ever

Stephen Lacy, 6-27-2008, “Renewable Energy a ‘Finance-driven Industry,” p http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/rea/news/story?id=52854

All risks considered, the world's leading investors are recognizing that a transition to a clean energy economy is the single biggest economic opportunity of the 21st century — and possibly the biggest economic opportunity ever. The U.S. represents one of the largest renewable energy markets, so merchant bankers, private equity firms and venture capitalists are all educating themselves about how to navigate this immature yet promising marketplace and make the right decisions to drive the industry forward. REFF is an event designed to give financiers the tools to invest in this increasingly complicated space.

Nat gas leads to net more warming than coal or renewables
Jacobson 12 (Mark, professor of civil and environmental engineering at Stanford University and director of the Atmosphere and Energy Program there, “Why Natural Gas Warms the Earth More but Causes Less Health Damage Than Coal, so is not a Bridge Fuel nor a Benefit to Climate,” http://www.stanford.edu/group/efmh/jacobson/Articles/I/NatGasVsWWS&coal.pdf ;)
Natural gas is not a recommended option for providing new sources of electric power for the world or U.S. for two reasons. First, it results in much more air pollution, climate degradation, and land devastation than do wind, water, or solar (WWS) technologies, thus it represent an opportunity cost. Second, even though it improves air quality versus coal, it causes faster global warming than coal, so neither coal nor gas is beneficial to society, and neither is recommended. Because WWS technologies can be combined to match the preponderance of power demand reliably, there is no need for natural gas to supply peaking power in the future and no need for new natural gas during the transition. These results follow from scientific analyses. Natural gas is not recommended versus WWS technologies for several reasons. The mining, transport, and use of even conventional natural gas for electric power results in at least 60-80 times more carbon-equivalent emissions and air pollution mortality per unit electric power generated than does wind energy over a 100-year time frame. Over the 10- 30 year time frame, natural gas is an even greater warming agent relative to all WWS technologies and a danger to the Arctic sea ice due to its methane leakage and black carbon-flaring emissions, as discussed shortly. Natural mining and use also produce carbon monoxide, ammonia, nitrogen oxides, and organic gases. Natural gas mining degrades land, roads, and highways and produces water pollution. Based on criteria described in Jacobson (2009), natural gas is not a recommended energy source for a clean and sustainable future in comparison with WWS resources. Since WWS resources are sufficiently available to power the world for all purposes multiple times over (Jacobson and Delucchi) and can be combined to meet electric power demand for nearly all hours of a year (Hart and Jacobson, 2011), and since several methods exist to allow WWS to meet the remaining demand (Delucchi and Jacobson, 2011), natural gas is not necessary for a sustainable future. On the other hand, WWS resources can power the world for all purposes while eliminating global warming and 2.5-3 million annual air pollution deaths. The main argument for increasing the use of natural gas has been that it is a “bridge fuel” between coal and renewable energy because of the belief that natural gas causes less global warming per unit electric power generated than coal. Although natural gas emits less carbon dioxide per unit electric power than coal; natural gas emits more methane and less sulfur dioxide per unit energy. Both factors enhance its overall global warming relative to coal, particularly when the relevant time scale and up-to-date global warming potentials are used. Several studies have shown that, without considering coal sulfur dioxide emissions, natural gas may result in similar or greater carbon-equivalent-emissions than coal on the 20-year time scale and, depending on the methane leakage rate, the 100-year time scale (Howarth et al. 2011, 2012a,b; Wigley 2011; Myhrvold and Caldeira, 2012). The most efficient use of natural gas is for electricity, since the efficiency of electricity generation with natural gas is greater than with coal. Yet even with optimistic assumptions, Myhrvold and Caldeira (2012) found that the rapid conversion of coal to natural gas electricity plants would “do little to diminish the climate impacts” of fossil fuels over the first half of the 21 st Century. Recent estimates of methane radiative forcing (Shindell et al. 2009) and leakage (Howarth et al. 2012b; Pétron! et! al.,! 2012) suggest a higher greenhouse-gas footprint of the natural gas systems than assumed in Myrhvold and Caldeira (2012). Moreover, conventional natural gas resources are becoming increasingly depleted and replaced by unconventional gas such as from shale formations, which have larger methane emissions, thus a larger greenhouse gas footprint than do conventional sources (Howarth et al. 2011, 2012b; Hughes 2011).

Renewables now solve

Stephen Lacy, 6-27-2008, “Renewable Energy a ‘Finance-driven Industry,” p http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/rea/news/story?id=52854

All risks considered, the world's leading investors are recognizing that a transition to a clean energy economy is the single biggest economic opportunity of the 21st century — and possibly the biggest economic opportunity ever. The U.S. represents one of the largest renewable energy markets, so merchant bankers, private equity firms and venture capitalists are all educating themselves about how to navigate this immature yet promising marketplace and make the right decisions to drive the industry forward. REFF is an event designed to give financiers the tools to invest in this increasingly complicated space.

Even if it’s real, no extinction – oceans prevent excess warming
Junk Science, ‘08
(“The curious incident of the added heat at the surface.” http://junkscience.com/Greenhouse/forcing.html)

Additionally, this form introduces another layer of complexity, that of oceanic absorption. Bear in mind that every 10 meters of water column is equivalent to one entire atmosphere (10 cubic meters of water has a mass of 10,000 Kg), meaning that the oceans are an enormous heat sink. There is a theory that we can not find atmospheric warming because the oceans are absorbing it and 300 atmosphere's worth of oceans make the temperature change far too small to measure. Now, we have no specific problem with the possibility that Earth's warmth is distributed through the oceans as well as the atmosphere. Our response, however, remains the same. If additional or "excess" warmth is being spread over so many more atmospheres, at least atmosphere's worth of oceans, then we are looking at as little as one-third of one percent of estimated warming to achieve equilibrium temperature with enhanced greenhouse forcing. This would make the IPCC's touted 1.5-6 °C atmospheric warming an immeasurably small 0.005-0.02 °C for a doubling of pre-Industrial atmospheric carbon dioxide -- not a particularly worrisome prospect. So, recent data acquisition fails to show warming in the top 750 meters of the oceans (equivalent to 75 atmospheres) but there is a suggestion of warming in the deep ocean (below 1,000 meters, although historic data is sparse, to say the least -- the warming of so much of the ocean would be so small from enhanced greenhouse that the figures are of little relevance here). We are providing a field for you to select ocean depth to disperse additional forcing so you can see the effect ocean absorption has. As an exercise try maxing out the atmospheric carbon dioxide at 1200 ppmv (four times pre-IR levels) and share the additional Joules through the full allowable 3,000 meters of ocean depth and see that it would take more than 100 years to raise the temperature of the system just 1 °C. If the assertions that heat is being added to the system at the claimed rate but we can not detect it because it is being "hidden" by dispersal in the oceans then again we are unconcerned -- distributing the additional heat through so many more atmospheres' worth of heat sink makes mean warming trivial.

==port security neg== 
===multilateralism cp=== 
====1nc multilateralism==== 

**[CP TEXT: United States federal government should offer to negotiate the creation and enforcement of regulations and standards for a multilateral organization to substantially increase port security with all other interested nations, and create incentives for speedy adoption of technical standards developed by the International Standards Organization for tracking a container and monitoring its integrity. United States federal government should offer to negotiate the creation and enforcement of regulations and standards for the implementation of a Global Awareness Data Extraction International Satellite constellation for improving shipping container security with all other interested nations.]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**A multilateral organization for port security solves best**
Stephen E. **Flynn**, January/February 20**06** (Far Eastern Economic Review, “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards,” http://www.cfr.org/border-and-ports/port-security-still-house-cards/p9629 >:)
A multilateral auditing organization made up of experienced inspectors should be created to periodically audit the third party auditors. This organization also should be charged with investigating major incidents and recommending appropriate changes to established security protocols. To minimize the risk that containers will be targeted between the factory and loading port, governments should create incentives for the speedy adoption of technical standards developed by the International Standards Organization for tracking a container and monitoring its integrity. The technology now used by the U.S. Department of Defense for the global movement of military goods can provide a model for such a regime.

**GLADIS solves case by creating an environment of cooperation – that solves Maritime Domain Awareness**
Rick Earles **Marion**, 20**10** (CANEUS USA and CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements, http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf >:)
A good candidate for our “ideal concept”, or at least one that represents a very good starting point, is the GLADIS concept from the United States Navy, Naval Research Laboratory. GLADIS is an acronym for the Global Awareness Data Extraction International Satellite constellation. NRL has been a leader in satellite technology since the dawn of space exploration with artificial satellites dating back to the Vanguard Program, in 1958, in conjunction with the International Geophysical Year. The GLADIS concept is an outgrowth of that experience and technical excellence as it frames an affordable, internationally shared long range AIS and data extraction backbone in space with exceptionally low barriers to entry for participating nations. GLADIS is envisioned as a constellation of 30 low-cost polar-orbiting nanosatellites, owned and operated by a consortium of nations sharing resources and responsibilities through a “fractional ownership” plan. The satellites would be arranged in five planes with six satellites in each plane, at an altitude of 550 kilometers. This would provide a data link within 10 minutes for every location on earth, allowing data from ground transmitters to be collected nearly continuously, wherever the transmitter is located. This includes AIS data routinely transmitted by over 80,000 ships at sea. Other land or sea-based transmitters from unattended sensors for example, would operate through a bi-directional UHF link hosted on GLADIS satellites, which would receive the sensor data, package it for secure transmission, and forward it to the nearest low-cost GLADIS-capable ground station. From there, the data would enter the “wired” world via the Internet and be delivered to the sensor owner. Figure 4 illustrates the concept.International Space-Based AIS and D The satellites that form the GLADIS constellation are intentionally simple to keep costs low, but they are fully capable of providing a path for data to move from remote regions anywhere on earth to users in the “wired” world. Each satellite is a 30 cm (12”) cube weighing about 15 kg (35 lb) that produces about 20 watts of electrical power. This class of satellites is large enough to carry data link payload but small enough to “hitch” a ride with other satellites to lower launch costs. From the policy perspective, which is often plagued by ITAR (International Trade in Arms Regulations) restrictions on space technology, GLADIS is intentionally designed to be fully releasable. A fully shareable design specification would allow countries to participate at the level of their interest and competencies through their laboratories, industry, and academic institutions. The key components of the satellites are the two communications packages (VHF for AIS reception, and UHF for receiving sensor data and for communicating data back to ground stations), VHF and UHF antennas, power generation, and flight control. Simplicity and low cost figure prominently in the GLADIS design; for example, the VHF antenna (for AIS signals) is a simple tilted dipole design that effectively reduces “data collisions” resulting from the tremendously wide field of view that a satellite has, by comparison to a ship at sea. The flight control, similarly, uses passive “brakes” rather than thrusters to keep satellites in each plane properly spaced. Satellites are designed for at least three years on orbit.

**Effective MDA solves port terrorism – satellite solutions are key**
Dr. Alex **Bordetsky**, June 20**10** (“Micro and Pico Satellites in Maritime Interdiction Operations,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA525245/ >:)
Maritime security has been a hot subject in the field of maritime arena. People and organizations from all over the world are trying to find methods and apply strategies that will enforce passive or sometimes active measures, in order to ensure maritime safety in both territorial and international waters. Countries, specifically in the Western world, have created internationally recognized organizations and signed worldwide accepted contracts and agreements, to utilize allied strategies to promote maritime security in a global level. Vigilance is a priority, especially when the sea lines of communication (SLOC) are the ways where terrorists use in order to transfer any type of Weapons of Mass Destruction, such as biological or radioactive materials. Therefore, the Naval Postgraduate School’s CENETIX laboratory along with MIO Testbed, is attempting to explore solutions that are going to be pivotal for the global maritime security. In this paper we describe all the possible measures that we can apply through laser emitting satellite space based solutions in order to improve the reach-back capabilities of our collaborative systems and increase readiness when dealing with the transfer of Weapons of Mass Destruction. The following analysis will be based on Pico satellite solutions that we can use in order to search, identify, track and tag hazardous materials that may cause a potential risk to maritime security. Maritime situational awareness is an issue that incurs a lot of dynamic discussions worldwide, but until recently there has been no specific resolutions that can be used in a real maritime warfare situation. The experiments will start and end in the space domain due to the fact that space is by far the most efficient area to apply new technologies that need to be shared worldwide through operation centers. Micro, Nano and Pico satellite solutions will be reported as the primary means of applying reach-back technologies in the maritime domain (for example satellites with AIS systems), but at the end the Pico Tubesat satellite will be incorporated on scenarios that are applied in the maritime environment. Tubesat is a new and promising Pico-satellite solution through which we can transfer and share valuable information to ships or network centers. There are important restrictions and limitations, but all these will be assessed and there will be a final estimation on how easy, fast and cost-effective the use of the commercial and available Pico satellite is to the problem of tracking and tagging WMD materials through the sea lines worldwide. Through these series of space experiments with the Tubesat satellites, we would like to generate the capability of transferring information back and forth, from the scene of action to a central node, so as to provide a key solution to those who deal on a daily basis with maritime warfare and the need to search on board merchant vessels for the existence of illegal trafficking of Weapons of Mass Destruction. Tubesat will be a critical part in our MIO Testbed for conducting the experiments.

====1nc unilateralism nb==== 

**The net benefit is multilateralism – international cooperation over port security is happening now – but the plan’s expansion of the US lead role causes backlash and turns the case**
Rebecca **Cruise and** Suzette **Grillot**, April 12th, 20**07** (University of Oklahoma, USA, “Protecting our Ports: Efforts to Enhance International Security Cooperation,” http://convention3.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/1/9/9/2/5/p199255_index.html >:)
Since the events of 9/11/01, there has been much discussion of the pores nature of US boarders and ports of entry. Considering the importance of the issue, there has been little academic debate regarding domestic and international policies to ensure port security, and even less academic research on the cooperation that such policies require and how cooperation is being advanced. We seek to remedy this deficiency. In recent years the US has taken the position as the lead actor in calling for more international cooperation and convergence of policies in how countries review containerized shipments and how they maintain security at ports. This paper asks if the US actions are motivated solely out of concern for securing its own ports, or if there is a genuine interest in cooperation for the sake of global security. Essentially, we will determine if the US’ willingness to work with other countries is best represented by a power or interest based theory of cooperation. Additionally, we will determine the ramifications of the US’ lead role, asking, if the US’ reputation is hindering international cooperation on this important issue. Through the course of our research it will be necessary to review domestic policies and agency interaction, as well as the steps that are being taken on the international front. Finally, we hope to be able to address the implications of an international port security regime and to make some policy prescriptions.

**US power shorn of international support causes extinction**
**Ikenberry, ’02** [John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition—Foreign Affairs, lexis]
Pitfalls accompany this neoimperial grand strategy, however. Unchecked U.S. power, shorn of legitimacy and disentangled from the postwar norms and institutions of the international order, will usher in a more hostile international system, making it far harder to achieve American interests. The secret of the United States' long brilliant run as the world's leading state was its ability and willingness to exercise power within alliance and multinational frameworks, which made its power and agenda more acceptable to allies and other key states around the world. This achievement has now been put at risk by the administration's new thinking. The most immediate problem is that the neoimperialist approach is unsustainable. Going it alone might well succeed in removing Saddam Hussein from power, but it is far less certain that a strategy of counterproliferation, based on American willingness to use unilateral force to confront dangerous dictators, can work over the long term. An American policy that leaves the United States alone to decide which states are threats and how best to deny them weapons of mass destruction will lead to a diminishment of multilateral mechanisms -- most important of which is the nonproliferation regime. The Bush administration has elevated the threat of WMD to the top of its security agenda without investing its power or prestige in fostering, monitoring, and enforcing nonproliferation commitments. The tragedy of September 11 has given the Bush administration the authority and willingness to confront the Iraqs of the world. But that will not be enough when even more complicated cases come along -- when it is not the use of force that is needed but concerted multilateral action to provide sanctions and inspections. Nor is it certain that a preemptive or preventive military intervention will go well; it might trigger a domestic political backlash to American-led and military-focused interventionism. America's well-meaning imperial strategy could undermine the principled multilateral agreements, institutional infrastructure, and cooperative spirit needed for the long-term success of nonproliferation goals. The specific doctrine of preemptive action poses a related problem: once the United States feels it can take such a course, nothing will stop other countries from doing the same. Does the United States want this doctrine in the hands of Pakistan, or even China or Russia? After all, it would not require the intervening state to first provide evidence for its actions. The United States argues that to wait until all the evidence is in, or until authoritative international bodies support action, is to wait too long. Yet that approach is the only basis that the United States can use if it needs to appeal for restraint in the actions of others. Moreover, and quite paradoxically, overwhelming American conventional military might, combined with a policy of preemptive strikes, could lead hostile states to accelerate programs to acquire their only possible deterrent to the United States: WMD. This is another version of the security dilemma, but one made worse by a neoimperial grand strategy. Another problem follows. The use of force to eliminate WMD capabilities or overturn dangerous regimes is never simple, whether it is pursued unilaterally or by a concert of major states. After the military intervention is over, the target country has to be put back together. Peacekeeping and state building are inevitably required, as are long-term strategies that bring the un, the World Bank, and the major powers together to orchestrate aid and other forms of assistance. This is not heroic work, but it is utterly necessary. Peacekeeping troops may be required for many years, even after a new regime is built. Regional conflicts inflamed by outside military intervention must also be calmed. This is the "long tail" of burdens and commitments that comes with every major military action. When these costs and obligations are added to America's imperial military role, it becomes even more doubtful that the neoimperial strategy can be sustained at home over the long haul -- the classic problem of imperial overstretch. The United States could keep its military predominance for decades if it is supported by a growing and increasingly productive economy. But the indirect burdens of cleaning up the political mess in terrorist-prone failed states levy a hidden cost. Peacekeeping and state building will require coalitions of states and multilateral agencies that can be brought into the process only if the initial decisions about military intervention are hammered out in consultation with other major states. America's older realist and liberal grand strategies suddenly become relevant again. A third problem with an imperial grand strategy is that it cannot generate the cooperation needed to solve practical problems at the heart of the U.S. foreign policy agenda. In the fight on terrorism, the United States needs cooperation from European and Asian countries in intelligence, law enforcement, and logistics. Outside the security sphere, realizing U.S. objectives depends even more on a continuous stream of amicable working relations with major states around the world. It needs partners for trade liberalization, global financial stabilization, environmental protection, deterring transnational organized crime, managing the rise of China, and a host of other thorny challenges. But it is impossible to expect would-be partners to acquiesce to America's self-appointed global security protectorate and then pursue business as usual in all other domains. The key policy tool for states confronting a unipolar and unilateral America is to withhold cooperation in day-to-day relations with the United States. One obvious means is trade policy; the European response to the recent American decision to impose tariffs on imported steel is explicable in these terms. This particular struggle concerns specific trade issues, but it is also a struggle over how Washington exercises power. The United States may be a unipolar military power, but economic and political power is more evenly distributed across the globe. The major states may not have much leverage in directly restraining American military policy, but they can make the United States pay a price in other areas. Finally, the neoimperial grand strategy poses a wider problem for the maintenance of American unipolar power. It steps into the oldest trap of powerful imperial states: self-encirclement. When the most powerful state in the world throws its weight around, unconstrained by rules or norms of legitimacy, it risks a backlash. Other countries will bridle at an international order in which the United States plays only by its own rules. The proponents of the new grand strategy have assumed that the United States can single-handedly deploy military power abroad and not suffer untoward consequences; relations will be coarser with friends and allies, they believe, but such are the costs of leadership. But history shows that powerful states tend to trigger self-encirclement by their own overestimation of their power.

===terrorism advantage=== 
====1nc terrorism f/l==== 

**No port terrorism –**

**a.) No means to execute an attack**
**Chalk 08** (Peter Chalk, political scientist at the RAND corporation, 2008, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security: Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” page 19, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf). Historically, the world’s oceans have not been a major locus of terrorist activity. Indeed, according to the RAND Terrorism Database, strikes on maritime targets and assets have constituted only two percent of all international incidents over the last 30 years. To be sure, part of the reason for this relative paucity has to do with the fact that many terrorist organizations have neither been located near coastal regions nor possessed the means to extend their physical reach beyond purely local theaters. There are also several problems associated with carrying out waterborne strikes which have, at least historically, helped to offset some of the tactical advantages associated with esoteric maritime environments outlined in Chapter Two. Most intrinsically, operating at sea requires terrorists to have mariner skills, access to appropriate assault and transport vehicles, the ability to mount and sustain operations from a non-land–based environment, and certain specialist capabilities (for example, surface and underwater demolition techniques).1 Limited resources have traditionally prevented groups from accessing options.

**b.) No motive**
**Chalk 08** (Peter Chalk, political scientist at the RAND corporation, 2008, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security: Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” page 19, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf). Very much related to this is the fact that terrorists are inherently conservative when it comes to choosing attack modalities. Precisely because they are constrained by ceilings in operational finance and skill sets, most groups have chosen to follow the path of least resistance. They adhere to the tried and tested methods that are known to work, that offer reasonably high chances of success, and whose consequences can be relatively easily predicted. Stated more directly, in a world of finite human and material assets, the costs and unpredictability associated with expanding to the maritime realm have typically trumped any potential benefits that might be garnered from initiating such a change in operational direction.

**No US retaliation – public backlash**
Ian **Bremmer**, 9-13-20**04**, New Statesman, “Suppose a new 9/11 hit America” What would happen if there were a new terrorist attack inside the United States on 11 September 2004? How would it affect the presidential election campaign? The conventional wisdom is that Americans - their patriotic defiance aroused - would rally to President George W Bush and make him an all but certain winner in November. But consider the differences between the context of the original 9/11 and that of any attack which might occur this autumn. In 2001, the public reaction was one of disbelief and incomprehension. Many Americans realised for the first time that large-scale terrorist attacks on US soil were not only conceivable; they were, perhaps, inevitable. A majority focused for the first time on the threat from al-Qaeda, on the Taliban and on the extent to which Saudis were involved in terrorism. This time, the public response would move much more quickly from shock to anger; debate over how America should respond would begin immediately. Yet it is difficult to imagine how the Bush administration could focus its response on an external enemy. Should the US send 50,000 troops to the Afghan-Pakistani border to intensify the hunt for Osama Bin Laden and 'step up' efforts to attack the heart of al-Qaeda? Many would wonder if that wasn't what the administration pledged to do after the attacks three years ago. The president would face intensified criticism from those who have argued all along that Iraq was a distraction from 'the real war on terror'. And what if a significant number of the terrorists responsible for the pre-election attack were again Saudis? The Bush administration could hardly take military action against the Saudi government at a time when crude-oil prices are already more than $45 a barrel and global supply is stretched to the limit. While the Saudi royal family might support a co-ordinated attack against terrorist camps, real or imagined, near the Yemeni border - where recent searches for al-Qaeda have concentrated - that would seem like a trivial, insufficient retaliation for an attack on the US mainland. Remember how the Republicans criticised Bill Clinton's administration for ineffectually 'bouncing the rubble' in Afghanistan after the al-Qaeda attacks on the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in the 1990s. So what kind of response might be credible? Washington's concerns about Iran are rising. The 9/11 commission report noted evidence of co-operation between Iran and al-Qaeda operatives, if not direct Iranian advance knowledge of the 9/11 hijacking plot. Over the past few weeks, US officials have been more explicit, too, in declaring Iran's nuclear programme 'unacceptable'. However, in the absence of an official Iranian claim of responsibility for this hypothetical terrorist attack, the domestic opposition to such a war and the international outcry it would provoke would make quick action against Iran unthinkable. In short, a decisive response from Bush could not be external. It would have to be domestic. Instead of Donald Rumsfeld, the defence secretary, leading a war effort abroad, Tom Ridge, the homeland security secretary, and John Ashcroft, the attorney general, would pursue an anti-terror campaign at home. Forced to use legal tools more controversial than those provided by the Patriot Act, Americans would experience stepped-up domestic surveillance and border controls, much tighter security in public places and the detention of a large number of suspects. Many Americans would undoubtedly support such moves. But concern for civil liberties and personal freedom would ensure that the government would have nowhere near the public support it enjoyed for the invasion of Afghanistan.

**Bioterror attack won’t happen**
**Leitenberg ‘5** (Milton Leitenberg, Senior Research Scholar, University of Maryland; Author, “Assessing the Biological Weapons and Bioterrorism Threat,” LA Times 2/17, lexis) A pandemic flu outbreak of the kind the world witnessed in 1918-19 could kill hundreds of millions of people. The only lethal biological attack in the United States – the anthrax mailings – killed five. But the annual budget for combating bioterror is more than $7 billion, while Congress just passed a $3.8-billion emergency package to prepare for a flu outbreak. The exaggeration of the bioterror threat began more than a decade ago after the Japanese Aum Shinrikyo group released sarin gas in the Tokyo subways in 1995. The scaremongering has grown more acute since 9/11 and the mailing of anthrax-laced letters to Congress and media outlets in the fall of 2001. Now an edifice of institutes, programs and publicists with a vested interest in hyping the bioterror threat has grown, funded by the government and by foundations. Last year, for example, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist described bioterrorism as "the greatest existential threat we have in the world today." But how could he justify such a claim? Is bioterrorism a greater existential threat than global climate change, global poverty levels, wars and conflicts, nuclear proliferation, ocean-quality deterioration, deforestation, desertification, depletion of freshwater aquifers or the balancing of population growth and food production? Is it likely to kill more people than the more mundane scourges of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, measles and cholera, which kill more than 11 million people each year? So what substantiates the alarm and the massive federal spending on bioterrorism? There are two main sources of bioterrorism threats: first, from countries developing bioweapons, and second, from terrorist groups that might buy, steal or manufacture them. The first threat is declining. U.S. intelligence estimates say the number of countries that conduct offensive bioweapons programs has fallen in the last 15 years from 13 to nine, as South Africa, Libya, Iraq and Cuba were dropped. There is no publicly available evidence that even the most hostile of the nine remaining countries -- Syria and Iran -- are ramping up their programs. And, despite the fear that a hostile nation could help terrorists get biological weapons, no country has ever done so – even nations known to have trained terrorists. 6.) Alt cause – other countries like Syria and Iran are developing bioweapons now – if they’re right that bioweapons can “get out of control very easily,” then accidental release of those bioweapons are far more likely than a terrorist attack

**Prolif is stabilizing – prevents conventional conflict and miscalc.**
Peter N **Madison**, Mar 20**06**, US Navy Lieutenant, “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN,” Naval Postgraduate School Thesis, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA445779 Owing to the vast destruction nuclear weapons can generate, they have ironically guaranteed security for the nations that possess them. Any attack against a nuclear state carries the risk of provoking a devastating response. Consequently, the benefits and dangers of nuclear weapon proliferation have been debated for decades. Perhaps the most debatable point is whether more nuclear states advance or weaken world security. Naturally, this issue remains moot. Yet, one must concede that the world has judiciously avoided the use of nuclear weapons for sixty years, suggesting the avoidance is attributable to more than luck. Professor Jan Breemer of the Navy War College asserts that at some point, luck loses its random nature and reflects skill.10 / 1. Nuclear Optimists: “More May Be Better”11 / Nuclear Optimists advocate a gradual increase in the number of nuclear states. They argue that a cautious increase does not correspond to an increased likelihood that nuclear weapons will be used. They further contend that this gradual spread is far better than if it were rapid or nonexistent.12 Supporters point to over sixty years in which deterrence helped prevent nuclear conflict. According to Professor Kenneth Waltz of the University of California at Berkeley, “The world has enjoyed more years of peace since 1945 than had been known in modern history.”13 Indeed, there has been no general war in this period, in spite of a variety of confrontations that could lead to rapid escalation and conflict.14 Instead nuclear weapons made nuclear war an unlikely possibility.15 / Professor Waltz argues that if deterrence produces the ideal, then the opposite must be correct: not having a clear balance of terror preventing a misstep leads to uncertainty of action by a state. He states that defeated countries like Germany following World War II, which fought conventionally, will at the very worst survive with limited suffering. Nuclear deterrence assures a totality of defeat; therefore, no rational actor will risk destruction.16 Instead of instability and uncertainty, nuclear weapons increase stability and certainty, making “miscalculation difficult and politically pertinent predictions easy.”17

**Iran miscalc inevitable without nuclear weapons – they will respond to the US conventional forces nearby – nuclear weapons stabilize their decision-making and prevent lash out.**
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Peter N **Madison**, Mar 20**06**, US Navy Lieutenant, “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN,” Naval Postgraduate School Thesis, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA445779 With India being Pakistan’s one, and apparently only foe, Pakistan faces a conventionally superior enemy, in both numbers and sophistication of weapons. Nevertheless, to date, Islamabad’s nuclear deterrent has proven suitable to defending that state from an otherwise more powerful enemy. / States acquiring nuclear weapons one at a time and with significant time between them may seem fraught with danger and uncertainty. However, Iran, as the most populous state in the region and the historical hegemon of the Arabian Gulf has lost its previous standing as regional arbiter to the United States. Detracting further from Iran’s image, the United States has rapidly removed two bordering regimes. Tehran cannot help but notice the capabilities of America’s armed forces and worry it could be next. This concern could lead Iran to behave irrationally, causing its decision making to become unstable. Nuclear weapons, with a clear C2 doctrine and regional deterrent relationships can garner Iran respect, domestic security, and the chance to add stability. Stability, for the purpose of this thesis, is considered to be the removal of the threat of conflict and its corresponding devastation.</span>

**No risk of nuke terror – barriers check**
**GSN ‘9** (Global Security Newswire, “Experts Debate Threat of Nuclear, Biological Terrorism,” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090113_7105.php) In even the most likely scenario of nuclear terrorism, there are 20 barriers between extremists and a successful nuclear strike on a major city, said John Mueller, a political science professor at Ohio State University / The process itself is seemingly straightforward but exceedingly difficult -- buy or steal highly enriched uranium, manufacture a weapon, take the bomb to the target site and blow it up. Meanwhile, variables strewn across the path to an attack would increase the complexity of the effort, Mueller argued / Terrorists would have to bribe officials in a state nuclear program to acquire the material, while avoiding a sting by authorities or a scam by the sellers. The material itself could also turn out to be bad / "Once the purloined material is purloined, [police are] going to be chasing after you. They are also going to put on a high reward, extremely high reward, on getting the weapon back or getting the fissile material back," Mueller said during a panel discussion at a two-day Cato Institute conference on counterterrorism issues facing the incoming Obama administration / Smuggling the material out of a country would mean relying on criminals who "are very good at extortion" and might have to be killed to avoid a double-cross, Mueller said. The terrorists would then have to find scientists and engineers willing to give up their normal lives to manufacture a bomb, which would require an expensive and sophisticated machine shop / Finally, further technological expertise would be needed to sneak the weapon across national borders to its destination point and conduct a successful detonation, Mueller said / Every obstacle is "difficult but not impossible" to overcome, Mueller said, putting the chance of success at no less than one in three for each. The likelihood of successfully passing through each obstacle, in sequence, would be roughly one in 3 1/2 billion, he said, but for argument's sake dropped it to 3 1/2 million / "It's a total gamble. This is a very expensive and difficult thing to do," said Mueller, who addresses the issue at greater length in an upcoming book, Atomic Obsession. "So unlike buying a ticket to the lottery ... you're basically putting everything, including your life, at stake for a gamble that's maybe one in 3 1/2 million or 3 1/2 billion." / Other scenarios are even less probable, Mueller said / A nuclear-armed state is "exceedingly unlikely" to hand a weapon to a terrorist group, he argued: "States just simply won't give it to somebody they can't control." / Terrorists are also not likely to be able to steal a whole weapon, Mueller asserted, dismissing the idea of "loose nukes." Even Pakistan, which today is perhaps the nation of greatest concern regarding nuclear security, keeps its bombs in two segments that are stored at different locations, he said (see GSN, Jan. 12) / Fear of an "extremely improbable event" such as nuclear terrorism produces support for a wide range of homeland security activities, Mueller said. He argued that there has been a major and costly overreaction to the terrorism threat -- noting that the Sept. 11 attacks helped to precipitate the invasion of Iraq, which has led to far more deaths than the original event / Panel moderator Benjamin Friedman, a research fellow at the Cato Institute, said academic and governmental discussions of acts of nuclear or biological terrorism have tended to focus on "worst-case assumptions about terrorists' ability to use these weapons to kill us." There is need for consideration for what is probable rather than simply what is possible, he said.

====2nc no motive xt==== 


**We’ll magnify it – terrorists won’t attack since ports are less accessible to the media**
**Chalk 08** (Peter Chalk, political scientist at the RAND corporation, 2008, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security: Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” page 20, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf). A further consideration has to do with the nature of maritime targets themselves: Because they are out of sight, they are generally out of mind (this is particularly true of commercial vessels). Thus, an attack on a ship is less likely to elicit the same publicity—either in scope or immediacy—as a strike on land-based targets, which, because they are ﬁxed and typically located near urban areas, are far more media- accessible (although, as argued below, this point may not apply with respect to contingencies involving heavily-laden cruise liners and ferries). This consideration is important because terrorism, at root, is a tactic that can only be eﬀective if it is able to visibly demonstrate its salience and relevance through the propaganda of the deed. Rather like the philosopher’s tree silently falling in the forest, if no one observes the event, does it have any reason for being?

====2nc no means xt==== 

**Container bombs are stupid – no container terrorism**
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">**Carafano and Quartel** 7-5-20**06** (James Jay Carafano, Deputy Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies; and Robert Quartel, former Member of the US Federal Maritime Commission, and an internationally recognized expert in international maritime and US national transportation policy. He currently serves as Chairman and CEO of FreightDesk Technologies, a leading provider of internet-based applications for international cargo management to shippers and Third Party Logistics Suppliers (3PLs); “Contain yourself”, The Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2006/07/contain-yourself) Some politicians want to require inspectors to look inside each container before it's shipped to U.S. ports. Supposedly, this would prevent terrorists from smuggling in a weapon of mass destruction or a "dirty" bomb (a large, conventional explosive laced with radiological material). But in reality, we'd be wasting our time and money. While it's true that a terrorist could put a bomb in a box, it's neither likely nor logical. In the case of all but a nuclear device, it would be easier and more certain to just build the weapon here. That's especially true for conventional explosives. Biological weapons can be produced with materials and equipment bought off the Internet or shipped here via any number of cargo delivery services. Potential chemical weapons surround us: chlorine tankers, gasoline trucks, pipelines and storage facilities. All a terrorist group needs for a dirty bomb is some low-grade radioactive material stolen from a hospital or a watch factory. Even the machines used to scan containers have radioactive material. Besides, if terrorists had a nuclear weapon, it's not at all clear why they would risk allowing it to leave their control. After all the time and trouble required to build a bomb, would they really wave good-bye and hope it gets to the right place? The terrorists would be far better off to hide their bomb in a private vessel (if they can afford a nuclear weapon, they can afford a boat to carry it in), a truck coming across from Canada, or a small tramp ship operating out of the Caribbean destined for, say, the Port of Richmond. If terrorists wanted to target a port, they would more likely use a truck, train or small boat. A McVeigh-style truck bomb, constructed domestically, would do the trick. And it would be much easier to approach a port from the land than from the sea. Finally, if foreign ports did attempt to screen every container of sneakers coming to America, they would likely fail. There aren't enough people and computers to scrutinize the millions of records that would be produced in real time before the containers reach their destination. It also isn't clear if any technology is fast, accurate and cheap enough to do the job with any degree of confidence.</span>

===economy advantage=== 
====1nc econ f/l==== 

**Ports aren’t key and empirics disprove**
Jon D. **Haveman and** Howard J. **Shatz** 20**06**- Director of the Economy Program at the Public Policy Institute of  California and Senior Economist; Professor, Pardee RAND Graduate School (Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost, Pg 30-31, http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf) In Chapter 2, Edward E. Leamer and Christopher Thornberg argue¶ that the actual costs of an attack on the Los Angeles–Long Beach port¶ complex may not be as high as many fear. For example, if a port is¶ closed, many shippers will reroute their shipments through other ports.¶ In addition, displaced workers will seek alternative employment. As a result, the economy will adjust. Some output will be lost, but it may be¶ so small in magnitude that it will not reveal itself in data that track¶ national or even regional macroeconomic trends.¶ The authors provide examples of other disruptions that might have¶ caused severe economic damage but did not, such as the terrorist attacks¶ of September 11, 2001. Consumer spending fell immediately after the¶ attacks but then rebounded sharply at the end of 2001, growing at an¶ unprecedented, seasonally adjusted annual rate of 7 percent. Likewise,¶ although retail sales fell immediately after the attacks, they returned to¶ trend in November, only two months later. Some sectors did suffer,¶ most notably the airline industry, which had already been in deep¶ trouble before the end of the technology boom in early 2001. But¶ consumer spending actually increased, suggesting that people reallocated¶ the money that they would have spent on airline travel to other forms of¶ consumption. Similarly, the authors argue that other disruptions such as¶ hurricanes, earthquakes, and even labor disputes at seaports did have¶ immediate negative economic effects but that these effects dissipated¶ quickly as the economy adjusted. The message in this is that most such¶ disruptions lead to business being delayed rather than business being¶ cancelled, which in turn results in much less economic harm than would¶ be expected.

**The economy’s resilience and excess physical capacity checks back**
J<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">on D. **Haveman** **and** Howard J. **Shatz** 20**06**- Director of the Economy Program at the Public Policy Institute of  California and Senior Economist; Professor, Pardee RAND Graduate School (Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost, Pg 67-69, http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf) A cursory look would seem to portend a dramatic, dangerous¶ scenario, but a closer look at the facts suggests otherwise. From an¶ input-output perspective, a wide variety of holes would be quickly¶ created in the flow of production that would seem to lead to a very sharp¶ downturn in economic activity. But our economy is not a mechanical¶ system; it is an organic self-healing system, much like that of a human¶ being: Large injuries take time to heal, but for the most part they do¶ eventually heal. To continue the analogy, a port attack is only a cut on the arm—quickly healed with little noticeable effect on the day-to-day¶ functioning of the person.¶ Although the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach certainly¶ represent a primary infrastructure target in the United States, a complete¶ shutdown of the ports is highly unlikely as a direct result of some¶ physical attack. There are two reasons for this: the sheer physical scale of¶ the facilities and the large amount of excess physical capacity (as opposed¶ to human capital capacity) currently in place. As shown in the port map¶ on p. xxiii, the two facilities take up approximately 12 square miles of¶ space in a six-by-four-mile area. The complex is broken into a number¶ of separate yards, each completely controlled by a number of¶ independent, competing major shipping lines, each of which have¶ substantial investment in the physical cranes and equipment on their¶ property. Some of these yards are on Terminal Island, connected to the¶ mainland by three road bridges and a railroad; others are on the¶ mainland itself. There are multiple access points into the area as the map¶ shows, including two highways. Even if these roads were shut down, it¶ would be relatively simple to construct a temporary bridge to the island,¶ and although it might have some implications for the movement of¶ ships, no yard would be effectively isolated.3¶ Conventional weapons would be able to damage, at best, only a¶ small portion of the complex, and would be unable to isolate a¶ substantial portion of the port given the multiple access routes into and¶ out of the area. Even a so-called “dirty bomb” could cover only one or¶ two square miles of area with radioactivity. Given the location on the¶ water, winds would quickly blow most of the radioactive materials away,¶ leaving even most of the initially affected area quickly reusable. The only¶ known weapon that could take out an area of this size for an extended¶ period of time would be a nuclear weapon. It seems more likely that the¶ target of such a horrific device would be a densely populated area, not a¶ port.</span>

**Terrorism doesn’t affect growth**
**Haveman and Shatz 06** (Jon and Howard, Public Policy Institute of California, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost” http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/R_606JHR.pdf) September 11 Did Not Cause the 2001 Recession There is a strong tendency to blame too many secondary effects on disasters. A good example of this phenomenon is found in the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington, D.C. In the days after the attacks, the rhetoric regarding the potential effect on the national economy was both loud and wrong. The theory proposed by many analysts and journalists was that psychologically fragile consumers in the United States would suffer a crisis and stop spending, driving the economy into a deeper recession. Support for this theory came from the first Gulf War, which supposedly caused a similar consumer crisis of confidence that in turn drove us into a recession in 1990. For example, the Wall Street Journal reported on September 13, 2001: “Past shocks to America’s sense of security, such as the Oklahoma City bombing or the Gulf War, have prompted consumers to pull back temporarily on major purchases and other discretionary spending,” said Richard Curtin, director of surveys of consumers at the University of Michigan. He expects a similar reaction now, which could mean a rough time in the next several weeks for the economy, which was already struggling with rising jobless rates and high consumer debt burdens. “We were teetering on the edge, and this might well push us over,” said Mr. Curtin. This hypothesis ignores the facts and completely overstates the psychological fragility of American consumers. The 1990 recession was not caused by the first Gulf War at all. Residential investment and expenditures on consumer durables typically are leading indicators of the economy. When spending on these items begins to fall as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP), this is a strong indication of an underlying weakness in the economy that will create a recession. Expenditures in these two sectors had dropped from 14 percent of GDP to below 12 percent of GDP in the three years preceding the 1990 downturn—and before the Gulf war. There has never been such a drop that did not eventually lead to a recession, with one exception—in 1967, when the economy was wobbling, appearing to be on the verge of recession, the sharp increase in spending for the Vietnam War propelled the economy forward. This was just the reverse of what Mr. Curtin suggested.

**No impact – 93 empirical examples**
**Miller 2K** (Morris Miller, economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, Winter 2000, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol. 25, Iss. 4, “Poverty as a cause of wars?” p. Proquest) The question may be reformulated. Do wars spring from a popular reaction to a sudden economic crisis that exacerbates poverty and growing disparities in wealth and incomes? Perhaps one could argue, as some scholars do, that it is some dramatic event or sequence of such events leading to the exacerbation of poverty that, in turn, leads to this deplorable denouement. This exogenous factor might act as a catalyst for a violent reaction on the part of the people or on the part of the political leadership who would then possibly be tempted to seek a diversion by finding or, if need be, fabricating an enemy and setting in train the process leading to war. According to a study undertaken by Minxin Pei and Ariel Adesnik of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, there would not appear to be any merit in this hypothesis. After studying ninety-three episodes of economic crisis in twenty-two countries in Latin America and Asia in the years since the Second World War they concluded that:19 Much of the conventional wisdom about the political impact of economic crises may be wrong ... The severity of economic crisis - as measured in terms of inflation and negative growth - bore no relationship to the collapse of regimes ... (or, in democratic states, rarely) to an outbreak of violence ... In the cases of dictatorships and semidemocracies, the ruling elites responded to crises by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).

**Econ’s resilient – innovations solve**
**Leonhardt,** New York Times, National Bureau of Economic Research, 20**05** [David, October 8, Business Cycle Data] MEMPHIS - The nearly empty Airbus 310 was coasting through the Alabama night sky when a message flashed in the cockpit. "DIVERT," it said, before using code to order the plane to land in Atlanta. The pilot banked the jet to the east and a half-hour later it was on the ground. There, its cargo door opened up to a group of waiting FedEx employees who began filling it with 17,000 pounds of cargo. It had been a busy day for Georgia businesses, and FedEx's regular nightly flights from Atlanta to the company's Memphis hub were overbooked with packages. So the local crew made a call to a sprawling, low-slung room here at headquarters, where people hunch over computer screens showing weather maps and flight plans, and asked for help from the five empty FedEx jets that roam over the United States every night. The recent birth of that small fleet, at a multimillion-dollar price tag, explains a lot about how the nation's economy has become so much more resilient. Think of it as the FedEx economy, a system that constantly recalibrates itself to cope with surprises. The United States has endured an almost biblical series of calamities in recent years - wars, hurricanes, financial scandals, soaring oil prices and rising interest rates - but the economy keeps chugging along at an annual growth rate of roughly 3 percent. It has been able to do so with the help of technology that allows businesses to react ever more quickly to changes. But with little notice, those reactions have also created a new feature of the business cycle: the micro-recession. When one of them strikes, activity slows for a few weeks, sometimes in just certain sectors or regions, as companies adjust to a dip in demand. It has happened much more often in the last few years than in earlier expansions, but growth has picked up each time, thanks in part to the adjustments that businesses have made. No company embodies this change, for better and worse, quite like FedEx. When Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, sees Frederick W. Smith, FedEx's chief executive, during halftime of Washington Redskins games, Mr. Greenspan uses the company's vast reach to check in on the economy. "He always asks, 'We still O.K.?' " said Mr. Smith, a part-owner of the team whose stadium suite abuts the one Mr. Greenspan uses. More formally, Federal Reserve staff members rely on FedEx and the nearly six million packages it delivers every day for real-time data that helps set interest rate policy. The company's around-the-world flights - fuller coming from Asia than going to it - are the shipping lanes of the global economy, bringing goods from Chinese factories to American shelves in just days. FedEx technology helps Procter & Gamble managers send more Crest to Wal-Mart whenever somebody buys a tube, and the managers can then watch the replacement move through the supply chain from their computer screens. All this - combined with financial innovations that allow companies to hedge their bets and, some say, the deregulation of pivotal transportation industries - has helped mute the economy's swings. The business cycle has certainly not been eliminated, as some dreamers suggested during the 1990's boom, but recessions really do seem to happen less often. There have been only two recessions in the last two decades. From the late 1960's through the early 80's, the economy endured four [recessions] of them, including two of the deepest in decades, which left millions of people out of work. "The more flexible an economy, the greater its ability to self-correct after inevitable, often unanticipated disturbances," Mr. Greenspan argued in a recent speech. "The impressive performance of the U.S. economy over the past couple of decades, despite shocks that in the past would have surely produced marked economic contraction, offers the clearest evidence of the benefits of increased market flexibility." Of course, new technologies and global shipping lanes are also big reasons that job growth has been so disappointing during this expansion and that the gains from recent economic growth have gone mainly to highly skilled white-collar workers. In Woodbridge, N.J., for example, a large FedEx shipping center can sometimes seem void of human beings. And revenue at the express-shipping division has grown almost 30 percent since 2002, while the full-time work force has declined slightly. The number of part-time workers has grown. Across the economy, quick reactions, like asking workers to put in more hours one week and fewer the next, have helped lead to the business cycle's new hiccups. Mr. Smith calls them "mini-recessions."

**Trade doesn’t decrease risk of conflict**
**Gelpi and Greico 05**, Associate Professor and Professor of Political Science, Duke University (Christopher, Joseph, “Democracy, Interdependence, and the Sources of the Liberal Peace”, Journal of Peace Research) As we have already emphasized, increasing levels of trade between an autocratic and democratic country are unlikely to constrain the former from initiating militarized disputes against the latter. As depicted in Figure 1, our analysis indicates that an increase in trade dependence by an autocratic challenger on a democratic target from zero to 5% of the former's GDP would increase the probability of the challenger’s dispute initiation from about 0.31% to 0.29%. Thus, the overall probability of dispute initiation by an autocratic country against a democracy is fairly high (given the rarity of disputes) at 23 nearly .3% per country per year. Moreover, increased trade does little or nothing to alter that risk. Increases in trade dependence also have little effect on the likelihood that one autocracy will initiate a conflict with another. In this instance, the probability of dispute initiation remains constant at 0.33% regardless of the challenger’s level of trade dependence.

==nib neg== 
===export-import bank cp=== 
====1nc exim==== 

**[CP TEXT: United States federal government should expand the mandate of the Export-Import bank to include dispersal of loans and grants for transportation infrastructure in the United States and relax all other restrictions and mandates on the Export-Import Bank. United States federal government should implement reforms to increase efficiency and transparency of the Export-Import bank.]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**Creation of an NIB under the ExIm bank solves faster and avoids backlash – our evidence is comparative**
Ed **Crooks and** Michelle **Quadt**, April 20th, 20**12** (vice president and in principal @ Booz Allen, “Rethinking Infrastructure Funding,” http://gov.aol.com/2012/04/20/rethinking-infrastructure-funding/ >:)
Creating a NIB will not be easy. But much of the challenge can be mitigated by increasing funding for an existing program with a long-term vision of reforming the system, rather than setting up a new government agency which would be much more costly and less effective. Both the U.S. Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) have experience in infrastructure lending, internal project screening and approval processes and staff of investment professionals experienced in project finance and related due diligence. Both have a proven track record of being successful in leveraging private investment for large projects, albeit in emerging markets. Housing the NIB under one of those institutions could help jumpstart the U.S-focused infrastructure credit program in a shorter period of time and potentially with a better public reception than setting up a brand new agency.

====at: p/ cp==== 

**CP is distinct for a few reasons**

**The CP does not increase funding for ExIm to do Transportation infrastructure investment – that makes it competitive since investment requires capital expenditure**
**Baker et. al 2** - professor in the finance area of the Harvard Business School, a program director for corporate finance at the National Bureau of Economic Research, and an associate editor for the Journal of Finance (Malcolm, Jeremy Stein, Jeffrey Wurgler, WHEN DOES THE MARKET MATTER? STOCK PRICES AND THE INVESTMENT OF EQUITY-DEPENDENT FIRMS, 7/17/02, http://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~jwurgler/papers/wurgler_baker_stein.pdf)//EM
b. Investment is deﬁned as capital expenditures over assets. Q is deﬁned as the market value of equity plus assets minus the book value of equity over assets. Cash ﬂow is deﬁned as operating cash ﬂow over assets.

**“National infrastructure bank” is a term of art – refers to a new bank – we just expand the mandate of an old bank**
Matt **Compton**, November 2011 (http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/11/03/five-facts-about-national-infrastructure-bank >:)
Today, the Senate is set to take up one idea that the President touted -- the creation of a national infrastructure bank.
Here's how it would work:
1) Congress would appropriate an initial $10 billion in startup money to capitalize the bank.
2) The new bank would identify transportation, energy, and water infrastructure projects that lack funding, offer a clear benefit for taxpayers, and are worth at least $100 million or $25 million for rural projects.

**CP competes – ‘establish’ means ‘to set up’ or ‘to bring about’ – the CP does not set up a new bank, rather expands the mandate of an old**
**dictionary.com no date** https://www.google.com/search?q=establish&rlz=1C1CHFX_enUS485US485&oq=establish&aqs=chrome.0.57j64l5.1402&sugexp=chrome,mod=15&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
es•tab•lish /iˈstabliSH/ Verb Set up (an organization, system, or set of rules) on a firm or permanent basis. Initiate or bring about (contact or communication).

===economy advantage=== 
====1nc econ f/l==== 

**Turn – the plan causes outsourcing which tanks the economy in a thousand different ways.**
**PRESTOWITZ** 20**11** - president of the Economic Strategy Institute and writes on the global economy for FP (Clyde, “Where the jobs went”. July 11. http://prestowitz.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/07/11/where_the_jobs_went)
The idea of stimulus incorporated in the standard economic models is that it will create demand for goods and services produced in America and thereby drive investment in new factories and jobs to produce more of those goods and services. The difficulty is that we do not want to stimulate a lot more construction or finance (those were the bubbles that collapsed after all), and greater stimulus to create demand for things we largely import does not drive new investment or creation of new jobs in America. It only increases our debt. What is needed is not just demand in the American economy, but demand that results in domestic production and that does not increase domestic or international debt. Think about this in the wake of the recent New York Times article reporting on the new Oakland Bay Bridge being made in and imported from China. Building infrastructure like bridges is a time-honored way of creating demand in the economy that creates jobs. Indeed, just this past weekend President Obama called for creation of an Infrastructure Bank that would enable a dramatic ratcheting up of U.S. investment in critical infrastructure. It's a good idea and one that I, along with others, have long promoted. But if the decision of the state of California to have the main structural elements of the Oakland Bay Bridge made in China is a harbinger of things to come, then an Infrastructure Bank is likely to create more jobs in Asia than in the United States. No doubt former Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and his cabinet thought they would save about $400 million on steel by buying the bridge in China because Chinese steel production has been heavily subsidized and China's government manages its yuan to be artificially undervalued versus the dollar. But what they didn't consider was that those subsidies tend to make U.S.-based production uncompetitive and not only put American workers out of jobs but exert downward pressure on wages generally while eroding critical investments in equipment and human skills, reducing state, municipal, and federal tax revenues, and contributing to the shrinkage of the national educational base. No one in California took a look at even the whole state picture, let alone the national picture, to determine whether buying a bridge in China was really going to be a net gain for the state (as it turns out, in the past two years the price of Chinese steel has risen much faster than that of U.S. steel so that even the initially projected savings are unlikely to be realized). Even worse, no one at the federal level of the U.S. government has any responsibility for evaluating the net impact of these kinds of deals or for reducing the leakage of stimulus spending abroad and maximizing the domestic production impact of government spending. Until our economists and officials begin to wrestle with the need for the United States not only to stimulate its economy but to do so in ways that will lay the basis for America to increase its wealth-producing capacity and pay its way, they are likely to find themselves in a continuous state of shock.

**Stimulus fails – empirically proven**
Steve **Stanek**, March 11th, 20**11** (research fellow at the Heartland Institute, managing editor of Budget & Tax News, “Two years of epic stimulus failures: Keynesian spending creates nothing but a wealth of debt,” pg. l/n >:)
We've just passed the second anniversary of "economic stimulus" under President Obama. Aside from spending on the stimulus itself - the actual price tag soon climbed from $787 billion to $821 billion - not much else has been stimulated. Nearly a trillion dollars have been poured into the U.S. economy, courtesy of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Result? Unemployment has barely budged, housing prices continue to fall in many markets and more mortgages slip into foreclosure. How can this be happening when so many people in government assure us that government spending spurs the economy? Because it's not true. For government to pour money into the economy, it must take money out of the economy in the first place. To hand out money, government must first take money from taxpayers. It's like moving money from the left pocket to the right pocket. It doesn't make us any wealthier. What it really stimulates is more government, not more economic activity. Or government can borrow money, which is simply taking money now and promising to pay it back later with money that will come from taxpayers who are around when "later" arrives. Government borrowing reduces the amount of money available for private businesses and individuals to borrow. The federal government also can create money, which leads to price inflation, making today's dollars worth less than yesterday's. We're already seeing the impact of a less-valuable dollar in items ranging from gold and silver to cotton and gasoline, all of which are at or near record prices. As high prices for essentials such as food and energy work their way through the economy, consumers will have less money to spend on everything else. The nonsensical idea that government should spend more in economic downturns stems from "Keynesianism," which is all the rage in government policy circles today, and for good reason. It provides cover to people who believe in expansive, interventionist government. Keynesianism claims government can spur demand for goods by spending money to make up for what private businesses and consumers are not spending. This provides an excuse to grow government, even when - especially when - the economy is slowing or contracting, and it gives government more power. But if government spending can boost an economy, how did the U.S. economy ever decline in the first place? When George W. Bush became president, total federal spending was $1.8 trillion. When he left office eight years later in January 2009, federal spending topped $3.4 trillion. And by 2009, the country was in the second year of the worst economic downturn since the 1930s. Spending under Mr. Bush increased at more than twice the rate of increase under President Clinton during the 1990s, a decade many Democrats now clamoring for even more government spending point to as years of strong economic growth. And let us not forget state and local governments. They did their part to supposedly prevent an economic slowdown by expanding their spending by more than $1 trillion - from $1.74 trillion in 2000 to $2.83 trillion in 2008 - when the financial crisis began. Record government spending did nothing to stop the recession. More government spending will do nothing to end it. Ah, but what about World War II spending, ending the Great Depression, you say? It did no such thing. Keynesian economists in the 1940s warned the end of war spending and return of millions of soldiers would result in an economy every bit as bad as or worse than we had during the Depression. Instead, federal spending plummeted from 40 percent of the economy to less than 15 percent (it's about 25 percent today), unemployment fell [falling] to less than 4 percent, and the economy boomed - the opposite of what many government economists said would happen, and another refutation of Keynesianism. The way to end this recession is for government to cut spending, shrink the deficit, end corporate welfare, stop using taxpayer money to bail out politically connected businesses and industries, and reduce regulations that make investing for the future more difficult.

**Congestion is structurally inevitable**
Anthony **Downs**, October 1st, 20**04** (Senior Fellow @ Brookings, scholar in public policy and public administration, “Why Traffic Congestion Is Here to Stay… and Will Get Worse,” http://www.uctc.net/access/25/Access%2025%20-%2004%20-%20Traffic%20Congestion%20is%20Here%20to%20Stay.pdf >:)
EVERYONE HATES TRAFFIC CONGESTION. But despite all attempted remedies, it keeps getting worse. Why don’t they do something about it? The answer: because rising traffic congestion is an inescapable condition in all large and growing metropolitan areas across the world, from Los Angeles to Tokyo, from Cairo to São Paulo. Peak-hour traffic congestion is a result of the way modern societies operate, and of residents’ habits that cause them to overload roads and transit systems every day. Traffic congestion is not essentially a problem. It’s the solution to our basic mobility problem, which is that too many people want to move at the same times each day. Efficient operation of the economy and our school systems requires that people go to work, go to school, and run errands during about the same hours so they can interact with each other. We cannot alter that basic requirement without crippling our economy and society. This problem marks every major metropolitan area in the world. In the United States, the vast majority of people wanting to move during rush hours use private vehicles, for two reasons. One is that most Americans reside in low-density settlements that public transit cannot serve effectively. Second, for most people private vehicles are more comfortable, faster, more private, more convenient in trip timing, and more flexible than public transit. Therefore, around the world, as household incomes rise, more and more people shift from less expensive public modes to privately owned cars and trucks. With 87.9 percent of America’s daily commuters using private vehicles, and millions wanting to move at the same times of day, our basic mobility problem is this: the road system does not have enough capacity to handle peak-hour loads without forcing people to wait in line for limited road space. “Waiting in line” is the definition of congestion.

**NIB can’t solve congestion or job growth – small scope of projects**
**Orski 11**-[Ken, New Geography, “Infrastructure Bank: Losing Favor with the White House,” 8/30/2011, http://www.newgeography.com/content/002408-infrastructure-bank-losing-favor-with-white-house, DKP]
If the proposed entity is to be a true bank – as proposed in a recent bill sponsored by Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and endorsed by the AFL-CIO and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce– its scope would be confined to projects that can repay interest and principal on their loans with a dedicated stream of revenue — in other words, the Bank could finance only income-generating facilities such as toll roads and bridges. By all estimates, such projects will constitute only a small fraction of the overall inventory of transportation improvements needed to be financed in the years ahead, the bulk of which will be reconstruction of existing toll-free Interstate highways. Hence, a true Infrastructure Bank would be of limited help in creating jobs and reviving the economy, critics argue.

**Manufacturing jobs are up – that is the key turning point for the economy**
**Markit 12/14** (Leading, global financial information services company with over 2,300 employees. The company provides independent data, valuations and trade processing across all asset classes in order to enhance transparency, reduce risk and improve operational efficiency. Its client base includes the most significant institutional participants in the financial market place, “Markit Flash U.S. Manufacturing PMI,” pdf ;)
“The U.S. manufacturing sector is showing signs of regaining momentum as the year comes to a close. Producers reported the largest monthly increase in output since April, with the rate of growth picking up for the third month in a row, suggesting output is now growing at an annualised rate of around 4% compared to the contraction seen back in October. “Such a steady run of improved growth of production is a good indication of a turning point in the economy as a whole, especially as it is feeding through to higher employment. The manufacturing sector has been acting as a drag on the official payroll numbers in recent months, but this situation looks to be changing as firms take on increasing numbers of workers in line with fuller order books. “Companies reported that demand showed further signs of picking up in the domestic market, while at the same time seeing new signs of life in export markets. “With exports rising for the second month, foreign trade gains as well as increased production should help to boost economic growth in the fourth quarter.”

**US competitiveness is inevitable**
Daron **Acemoglu and** James A. **Robinson**, April 19th, 20**12** (co-authors of ‘Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty,’ “World's next technology leader will be US, not China – if America can shape up,” http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Global-Viewpoint/2012/0419/World-s-next-technology-leader-will-be-US-not-China-if-America-can-shape-up >:)
But what matters for global leadership is innovation, which is not only the key driver of per capita income growth but also ultimately the main determinant of military and diplomatic leadership. It was the US that proved after Pearl Harbor how a prosperous economy can rapidly increase its military power and preparedness when push comes to shove. So the right question to ask is not who will be the military leader of the next century, but who will be the technological leader. The answer must be: most probably the US – but only if it can clean up its act. OPINION: 3 reasons why China isn't overtaking the US The odds favor the US not only because it is technologically more advanced and innovative than China at the moment, with an income per capita more than six times that of China. They do so also because innovation ultimately depends on a country’s institutions. Inclusive political institutions distribute political power equally in society and constrain how that power can be exercised. They tend to underpin inclusive economic institutions, which encourage innovation and investment and provide a level playing field so that the talents of a broad cross-section of society can be best deployed. Despite all of the challenges that they are facing, US institutions are broadly inclusive, and thus more conducive to innovation. Despite all of the resources that China is pouring into science and technology at the moment, its political institutions are extractive, and as such, unless overhauled and revolutionized soon, they will be an impediment to innovation.

**Downswings don’t cause war – 93 empirical examples**
**Miller 2K**
(Morris Miller, economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, Winter 2000, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol. 25, Iss. 4, “Poverty as a cause of wars?” p. Proquest)
The question may be reformulated. Do wars spring from a popular reaction to a sudden economic crisis that exacerbates poverty and growing disparities in wealth and incomes? Perhaps one could argue, as some scholars do, that it is some dramatic event or sequence of such events leading to the exacerbation of poverty that, in turn, leads to this deplorable denouement. This exogenous factor might act as a catalyst for a violent reaction on the part of the people or on the part of the political leadership who would then possibly be tempted to seek a diversion by finding or, if need be, fabricating an enemy and setting in train the process leading to war. According to a study undertaken by Minxin Pei and Ariel Adesnik of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, there would not appear to be any merit in this hypothesis. After studying ninety-three episodes of economic crisis in twenty-two countries in Latin America and Asia in the years since the Second World War they concluded that:19 Much of the conventional wisdom about the political impact of economic crises may be wrong ... The severity of economic crisis - as measured in terms of inflation and negative growth - bore no relationship to the collapse of regimes ... (or, in democratic states, rarely) to an outbreak of violence ... In the cases of dictatorships and semidemocracies, the ruling elites responded to crises by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).

**Econ’s resilient – innovations solve**
**Leonhardt**, New York Times, National Bureau of Economic Research, 20**05** [David, October 8, Business Cycle Data]
MEMPHIS - The nearly empty Airbus 310 was coasting through the Alabama night sky when a message flashed in the cockpit. "DIVERT," it said, before using code to order the plane to land in Atlanta. The pilot banked the jet to the east and a half-hour later it was on the ground. There, its cargo door opened up to a group of waiting FedEx employees who began filling it with 17,000 pounds of cargo. It had been a busy day for Georgia businesses, and FedEx's regular nightly flights from Atlanta to the company's Memphis hub were overbooked with packages. So the local crew made a call to a sprawling, low-slung room here at headquarters, where people hunch over computer screens showing weather maps and flight plans, and asked for help from the five empty FedEx jets that roam over the United States every night. The recent birth of that small fleet, at a multimillion-dollar price tag, explains a lot about how the nation's economy has become so much more resilient. Think of it as the FedEx economy, a system that constantly recalibrates itself to cope with surprises. The United States has endured an almost biblical series of calamities in recent years - wars, hurricanes, financial scandals, soaring oil prices and rising interest rates - but the economy keeps chugging along at an annual growth rate of roughly 3 percent. It has been able to do so with the help of technology that allows businesses to react ever more quickly to changes. But with little notice, those reactions have also created a new feature of the business cycle: the micro-recession. When one of them strikes, activity slows for a few weeks, sometimes in just certain sectors or regions, as companies adjust to a dip in demand. It has happened much more often in the last few years than in earlier expansions, but growth has picked up each time, thanks in part to the adjustments that businesses have made. No company embodies this change, for better and worse, quite like FedEx. When Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, sees Frederick W. Smith, FedEx's chief executive, during halftime of Washington Redskins games, Mr. Greenspan uses the company's vast reach to check in on the economy. "He always asks, 'We still O.K.?' " said Mr. Smith, a part-owner of the team whose stadium suite abuts the one Mr. Greenspan uses. More formally, Federal Reserve staff members rely on FedEx and the nearly six million packages it delivers every day for real-time data that helps set interest rate policy. The company's around-the-world flights - fuller coming from Asia than going to it - are the shipping lanes of the global economy, bringing goods from Chinese factories to American shelves in just days. FedEx technology helps Procter & Gamble managers send more Crest to Wal-Mart whenever somebody buys a tube, and the managers can then watch the replacement move through the supply chain from their computer screens. All this - combined with financial innovations that allow companies to hedge their bets and, some say, the deregulation of pivotal transportation industries - has helped mute the economy's swings. The business cycle has certainly not been eliminated, as some dreamers suggested during the 1990's boom, but recessions really do seem to happen less often. There have been only two recessions in the last two decades. From the late 1960's through the early 80's, the economy endured four [recessions] of them, including two of the deepest in decades, which left millions of people out of work. "The more flexible an economy, the greater its ability to self-correct after inevitable, often unanticipated disturbances," Mr. Greenspan argued in a recent speech. "The impressive performance of the U.S. economy over the past couple of decades, despite shocks that in the past would have surely produced marked economic contraction, offers the clearest evidence of the benefits of increased market flexibility." Of course, new technologies and global shipping lanes are also big reasons that job growth has been so disappointing during this expansion and that the gains from recent economic growth have gone mainly to highly skilled white-collar workers. In Woodbridge, N.J., for example, a large FedEx shipping center can sometimes seem void of human beings. And revenue at the express-shipping division has grown almost 30 percent since 2002, while the full-time work force has declined slightly. The number of part-time workers has grown. Across the economy, quick reactions, like asking workers to put in more hours one week and fewer the next, have helped lead to the business cycle's new hiccups. Mr. Smith calls them "mini-recessions."

**No impact to recession**
W. Michael **Cox**, senior vp and chief economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, IBD, 1-9-20**02**
Since 1960, the average recession lasted 11 months, with declines of 2.1 percentage points in total output and 1.7% in employment. The previous downturn, an eight-month pause from August 1990 to March 1991, saw just a 1.5% slump in economic activity and a 1.1% drop in the number of jobs. Before 1940, only one in seven recessions was over by 11 months. A third of them hung on for at least 23 months. Between 1887 and 1950, recessions meant an average decline of 13% in industrial production. Since 1960, the toll has been reduced to 7%. Shorter, milder recessions arise from a shift away from the dominance of boom-to-bust industries, such as farming and manufacturing. The economy has diversified, with volatile sectors not only being smaller slices of the pie, but also offset by more stable pieces, such as trade and services. Recessions are part of the system. Periods of economic slowdown serve a purpose in a capitalist economy. The pauses allow for time to correct excesses - rising inflation, bloated inventories, excess capacity, supply bottlenecks and misallocation of resources. Boom times hide the excesses, and they're wrung out during the down months. In recession an economy reorganizes itself, reallocating resources to emerge more efficient and productive. Layoffs are traumatic, but labor and other resources are freed for eventual use in the next wave of enterprises. Thousands of dot-com companies may have gone belly up, but we didn't lose their know-how. The technology and human resources are still here. Recession doesn't equal regression. We can reuse what we learned. Recessions are to some extent self-correcting. Now that a slump is here, the economy won't continue to spiral downward. Once down, it won't stay down. In an economy where markets provide continual feedback, behavior and expectations can change quickly. As demand falters, companies cut costs and reduce inventories. Prices adjust downward. Consumers react by buying more, reviving demand. Policy responses are part of the cure. The Federal Reserve moved aggressively in 2001 to lower interest rates. Credit is now cheaper than any time in the past 40 years. Looking ahead, the economy maintains considerable strength. Inflation remains tame at less than 2%. Real personal income continued to grow in 2001, so consumers have more money to spend. America still sits on a mother lode of new technologies - from electronics to medicine. The spirit of enterprise never lies dormant, not even in recession. Thus, the U.S. economy already has the makings of the next boom.

**Public investment is manipulated by project managers who cook the data to win project approval – exaggerates aff benefits and causes massive cost overruns**
**Flyvbjerg, ‘10** – [Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford University's Saïd Business School and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at Aalborg University, Denmark and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online]
This situation may need some explication, because it may sound to many like an unlikely state of affairs. After all, it may be agreed that project managers and other professionals involved in major infrastructure provision ought to be interested in being accurate and unbiased in their work. It is even stated in the Project Management Institute (PMI)’s Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct (PMI, 2006, pp. 4, 5) that project managers should ‘provide accurate information in a timely manner’ and they must ‘not engage in or condone behaviour that is designed to deceive others’. Economists, engineers, planners, and others involved in major infrastructure provision have similar codes of conduct. But there is a dark side to their work, which is remarkably underexplored in the literature (Flyvbjerg, 1996). On the dark side, project managers and planners ‘lie with numbers’. as Wachs (1989) has aptly put it. They are busy not with getting forecasts and business cases right and following the PMI Code of Ethics but with getting projects funded and built. And accurate forecasts are often not an effective means for achieving this objective. Indeed, accurate forecasts may be counterproductive, whereas biased forecasts may be effective in competing for funds and securing the go-ahead for a project. ‘The most effective planner,’ says Wachs (1989, p. 477), ‘is sometimes the one who can cloak advocacy in the guise of scientiﬁc or technical rationality.’ Such advocacy would stand in direct opposition to PMI’s ruling that project managers should ‘make decisions and take actions based on the best interests of society’ (PMI, 2006, p. 2). Nevertheless, seemingly rational forecasts that underestimate costs and overestimate beneﬁts have long been an established formula for project approval as we saw above. Forecasting is here mainly another kind of rent-seeking behaviour, resulting in a make-believe world of misrepresentation which makes it extremely difﬁcult to decide which projects deserve undertaking and which do not. The consequence is, as even one of the industry’s own organs, the Oxford-based Major Projects Association, acknowledges, that too many projects proceed that should not. One might add that many projects do not proceed that probably should, had they not lost out to projects with ‘better’ misrepresentation (Flyvbjerg et al., 2002). In this situation, the question is not so much what project managers can do to reduce inaccuracy and risk in forecasting, but what others can do to impose on project managers the checks and balances that would give managers the incentive to stop producing biased forecasts and begin to work according to their Code of Ethics. The challenge is to change the power relations that govern forecasting and project development. Better forecasting techniques and appeals to ethics will not do here; organizational change with a focus on transparency and accountability is necessary. As argued in Flyvbjerg et al. (2003), two basic types of accountability deﬁne liberal democracies: (i) public-sector accountability through transparency and public control; and (ii) private-sector accountability via competition and the market mechanism. Both types of accountability may be effective tools to curb misrepresentation in project management and to promote a culture which acknowledges and deals effectively with risk, especially where large amounts of taxpayers’ money are at stake and for projects with signiﬁcant social and environmental impacts, as is common with major infrastructure projects.

**Data cooking creates economic disasters – the worst projects are approved, and necessary infrastructure loses out – this turns the case**
**Flyvbjerg, ‘10** – [Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford University's Saïd Business School and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at Aalborg University, Denmark and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online]
In sum, the UK study shows that strong interests and strong incentives exist at the project-approval stage to present projects as favourably as possible—that is, with beneﬁts emphasized and costs and risks de-emphasized. Local authorities, local developers and land owners, local labour unions, local politicians, local ofﬁcials, local MPs, and consultants all stand to beneﬁt from a project that looks favourable on paper and they have little incentive actively to avoid bias in estimates of beneﬁts, costs, and risks. National bodies, such as certain parts of the Department for Transport and the Ministry of Finance who fund and oversee projects, may have an interest in more realistic appraisals, but so far they have had little success in achieving such realism, although the situation may be changing with the initiatives to curb bias set out in HM Treasury (2003) and UK Department for Transport (2006). Wachs (1986, 1990) found similar results for transit planning in the USA. Taken together, the UK and US studies both account well for existing data on cost underestimation and beneﬁt overestimation. Both studies falsify the notion that in situations with high political and organizational pressure the underestimation of costs and overestimation of beneﬁts is caused by non-intentional technical error or optimism bias. Both studies support the view that in such situations promoters and forecasters intentionally use the following formula in order to secure approval and funding for their projects: underestimated costs + overestimated beneﬁts = funding Using this formula, and thus ‘showing the project at its best’ as one interviewee said above, results in an inverted Darwinism, i.e the survival of the unﬁttest. It is not the best projects that get implemented, but the projects that look best on paper. And the projects that look best on paper are the projects with the largest cost underestimates and beneﬁt overestimates, other things being equal. But the larger the cost underestimate on paper, the greater the cost overrun in practice. And the larger the overestimate of beneﬁts, the greater the beneﬁt shortfall. Therefore the projects that have been made to look best on paper in this manner become the worst, or unﬁttest, projects in reality, in the sense that they are the very projects that will encounter most problems during construction and operations in terms of the largest cost overruns, beneﬁt shortfalls, and risks of non-viability. They have been designed like that, as disasters waiting to happen.

**Government spending decreases private investment which is the only way to create growth**
**Riedl, ’10** [1/09/10, Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, “Why Government Spending Does Not Stimulate Economic Growth: Answering the Critics,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703481004574646551469288292.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines]
Government spending can affect long-term economic growth, both up and down. Economic growth is based on the growth of labor productivity and labor supply, which can be affected by how governments directly and indirectly influence the use of an economy's resources. However, increasing the economy's productivity rate--which often requires the application of new technology and resources-- can take many years or even decades to materialize. It is not short-term stimulus.[13] In fact, large stimulus bills often reduce long-term productivity by transferring resources from the more productive private sector to the less productive government. The government rarely receives good value for the dollars it spends. However, stimulus bills provide politicians with the political justification to grant tax dollars to favored constituencies. By increasing the budget deficit, large stimulus bills eventually contribute to higher interest rates while dropping even more debt on future generations.

**Negative Multiplier—deadweight losses means spending creates a negative multiplier which outweighs**
**De Rugy and Debnam, ’10** [July 2010, Veronique de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University and Jakina Debnam is a research analyst at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, “Does Government Spending stimulate economies?” http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/MOP77_SBI_Spending%20Multiplier_web%20(2).pdf]
Barro and Redlick’s research estimates that the multiplier for changes in defense spending that people think will be temporary—spending for the Iraq war for example—is between 0.4 and 0.5 at the time of the spending and between 0.6 and 0.7 over two years. If the change in defense spending becomes permanent, then these multipliers increase by 0.1 to 0.2. 11 Over time, this is a maximum multiplier of 0.9. Thus even in the government’s best-case spending scenario, all of the estimated multipliers are significantly less than one. This means greater government spending crowds out other components of GDP, particularly investment. In addition, they calculate the impact on the economy if the government funds the spending with taxes. They find that the tax multiplier—the effect on GDP of an increase in taxes—is –1.1. This means that if the government raises taxes by $1, the economy will shrink by $1.1. When this tax multiplier is combined with the effects of the spending multiplier, the overall effect is negative. Barro and Redlick write that, “Since the tax multiplier is larger in magnitude than the spending multipliers, our estimates imply that GDP declines in response to higher defense spending and correspondingly higher tax revenue.” 12 Thus, they conclude that greater government spending financed by tax increases hurts the economy. Other economist have also calculated defense spending multipliers of less than or equal to 1. 13 Economists Bob Hall and Susan Woodward recently examined spending increases from World War II and the Korean War and found that the government spending multiplier is about 1. 14 Economist Valerie Ramey’s work on how U.S. military spending influences GDP gives a multiplier estimate of 1.2 in the short term, but in the long term, she finds that consumer and business spending fall after a rise in government purchases, offsetting the initial effect of the government spending. 15

====at: buy america solves outsourcing==== 

**Buy America turns the economy and free trade**
**Faiola,** **9** [Anthony Faiola, Washington Post Staff Writer,1/29/9, “'Buy American' Rider Sparks Trade Debate”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/01/28/AR2009012804002_2.html]
Proponents of expanding the "Buy American" provisions enacted during the Great Depression, including steel and iron manufacturers and labor unions, argue that it is the only way to ensure that the stimulus creates jobs at home and not overseas. Opponents, including some of the biggest blue-chip names in American industry, say it amounts to a declaration of war against free trade. That, they say, could spark retaliation from abroad against U.S. companies and exacerbate the global financial crisis. The provisions also confront President Obama with his first test on trade policy. He must weigh the potential consequences of U.S. protectionism against the appealing slogan of "Buy American" and the jobs argument. The administration has not addressed the issue publicly, and sources close to the issue said it appears that a response is still being formulated. "We're reviewing the Buy American plan proposal, and we are committed to a plan that will save or create at least 3 million jobs including jobs in manufacturing," White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said. The proposals are meant to regenerate heavy manufacturing jobs in the United States by forcing government contractors to use domestic materials and equipment, even if they are more expensive. Yet U.S. industrial giants including Caterpillar, General Electric and the domestic aerospace industry are emerging as strong opponents. The measures, they argue, could violate trade deals the United States has signed in recent years, including an agreement on expanding access to government procurements reached through the World Trade Organization. But most damaging, critics say, would be the "protectionist message" attached to imposing such barriers on foreign companies. Nations including China and many in Europe are preparing to spend billions of dollars of taxpayer money on stimulus projects. American companies are angling for a piece of those pies, and retaliatory measures against U.S. companies, executives argue, could significantly complicate those efforts. This week, a European Commission spokesman threatened countermeasures if the Buy American provisions are approved. "There is no company that is going to benefit more from the stimulus package than Caterpillar, but I am telling you that by embracing Buy American you are undermining our ability to export U.S. produced products overseas," said Bill Lane, government affairs director for Caterpillar in Washington. More than half of Caterpillar's sales -- including big-ticket items like construction cranes and land movers -- are sold overseas. "Any student of history will tell you that one of the most significant mistakes of the 1930s is when the U.S. embraced protectionism," Lane said. "It had a cascading effect that ground world trade almost to a halt, and turned a one-year recession into the Great Depression." There are early signs that nations are putting up trade barriers to protect domestic companies as the global downturn worsens. Despite promises offered during a major economic summit in November to refrain from taking such measures, countries from France to Indonesia have done so.

===cyberattacks advantage=== 
====1nc cyber f/l==== 

**Cyber-war impact would be small---infrastructure is resilient**
**Lawson 11** Sean, Ph.D., Department of Communication University of Utah "Beyond Cyber-Doom: Cyberattack Scenarios and the Evidence of History" Jan 11 mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/beyond-cyber-doom-cyber-attack-scenarios-evidence-history_1.pdf
In the last three years, cybersecurity has received perhaps more attention than at any time during the last three decades. Proponents of greater cybersecurity have deployed cyber-doom scenarios that frame prospective cyber-threats in terms of “war” and “disaster” and offer the possibility of total economic, social, or even civilizational collapse. In this paper, I have argued that cyber-doom scenarios are more a reflection of long-held, but ultimately incorrect, assumptions and fears about the fragility of modern societies and infrastructure systems than they are a realistic portrayal of what is possible as a result of cyberattack. Research by historians of technology, military historians, and disaster sociologists has shown consistently that modern technological and social systems are more resilient than military and disaster planners often assume. What’s more, they have shown that fears and assumptions to the contrary often lead to a centralized, militarized quest for top-down control that is ultimately counterproductive to achieving stated policy objectives. Influenced by cyber-doom scenarios, current U.S. cybersecurity policy, with its creation of a military Cyber Command and suggestions for an “Internet kill switch,” is tending towards the centralized, militarized, control-oriented, fortress mentality that research suggests is neither prudent nor effective. Instead, research suggests that effective prevention of, defense against, and mitigation in response to cyberattack requires the promotion of resilience by way of repair, maintenance, and modernization of our technological systems and decentralization, self-organization, economic strength, and good governance in our social systems.

**No impact**
James A. **Lewis**, Dec 20**02**, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Assessing the Risks of Cyber Terrorism,” CSIS publication, p http://www.securitymanagement.com/library/CSIS_Cyberthreat0303.pdf
Much of the literature on cyber-terrorism assumes that the vulnerability of computer networks and the vulnerability of critical infrastructures are the same, and that these vulnerabilities put national security at a significant risk. Given the newness of computer network technology and the rapidity with which it spread into economic activity, these assumptions are not surprising. A closer look at the relationships between computer networks and critical infrastructures, their vulnerability to attack, and the effect on national security, suggests that the assumption of vulnerability is wrong. A full reassessment is outside the scope of this paper, but a brief review suggests that while many computer networks remain very vulnerable to attack, few critical infrastructures are equally vulnerable. A reassessment of the cyber threat has four elements. First, we need to put cyber-warfare and cyber-terrorism in the historical context of attacks against infrastructure. Strategies that emphasize attacks on critical civil infrastructures have discussed for more than eighty years. Second, we need to examine cyber attacks against a backdrop of routine infrastructure failures. There is extensive data on power outages, flight delays and communications disruptions that occur normally and the consequences of these routine failures can be used to gage the effect cyber-warfare and cyber-terrorism. Third, we need to measure the dependence of infrastructure on computer networks and the redundancy already present in these systems. Finally, for the case of cyber-terrorism, we must consider the use of cyber-weapons in the context of the political goals and motivations of terrorists, and whether cyber-weapons are likely to achieve these goals. A preliminary review of these factors suggests that computer network vulnerabilities are an increasingly serious business problem but that their threat to national security is overstated. Modern industrial societies are more robust than they appear at first glance. Critical infrastructures, especially in large market economies, are more distributed, diverse, redundant and self-healing than a cursory assessment may suggest, rendering them less vulnerable to attack. In all cases, cyber attacks are less effective and less disruptive than physical attacks. Their only advantage is that they are cheaper and easier to carry out than a physical attack.

**Every routine service failure empirically disproves the terminal**
James A. **Lewis**, Dec 20**02**, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Assessing the Risks of Cyber Terrorism,” CSIS publication, p http://www.securitymanagement.com/library/CSIS_Cyberthreat0303.pdf
Critical infrastructure protection creates a new set of problems for national security. Different actors are involved. The focus is on civilian and commercial systems and services. Military force is less important. The scope of these new problems depends on how we define national security and how we set thresholds for acceptable damage. From a legal or public safety perspective, no country will accept even a single attack on infrastructure or interruption of services. If the goal is to prevent cyber-attacks from costing a single day of electric power or water service, we have set a very high standard for security. However, from a strategic military perspective, attacks that do not degrade national capabilities are not significant. From this perspective, if a cyber-attack does not cause damage that rises above the threshold of the routine disruptions that every economy experiences, it does not pose an immediate or significant risk to national security. / It is particularly important to consider that in the larger context of economic activity, water system failures, power outages, air traffic disruptions and other cyber-terror scenarios are routine events that do not affect national security. On a national level, where dozens or even hundreds of different systems provide critical infrastructure services, failure is a routine occurrence at the system or regional level, with service denied to customers for hours or days. Cyber-terrorists would need to attack multiple targets simultaneously for long periods of time to create terror, achieve strategic goals or to have any noticeable effect. For most of the critical infrastructure, multiple sustained attacks are not a feasible scenario for hackers, terrorist groups or nation states (particularly for nation states, where the risk of discovery of what would be universally seen as an act of war far outweigh the limited advantages gained from cyber attacks on infrastructure).

==evacuation neg== 
===woan kritik=== 
====1nc woan==== 

**The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of the subjugation of raced bodies.**
**Brenman ‘7** [Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]
Three major kinds of infrastructure in the United States contribute to the separation of races: housing, education, and transportation. Of these, transportation receives the least attention by those interested in social justice. Yet people must get from place to place. Social mobility is an important part of the story we tell ourselves as Americans. But historically, it has not been available to all, or available only in a way that has channeled some people to specific places and inequitable opportunities, sometimes involuntarily and even in chains. Ideas and their implications also have to get from one place to another. The notion of progress, enshrined in liberal thinking, often has not served people of color when the progress was mechanical. This article sets the context for examining the inequality caused by, and supported by, transportation. In some cases, existing extreme inequality make forced transportation impossible to resist. In the first section, a new view is taken, seeing slave ships as bringing inequality to America, and the Underground Railroad as an important part of transportation, civil rights history, and the escape from inequality. The next section discusses the legal context as it relates to transportation inequity. The third joins education to transportation inequity. The fourth shows how the modern civil rights movement has a transportation base. The fifth ties together the joining of America by railroads and the civil rights movement. The sixth brings road building and shipping into the discussion. The last section brings us up to date by referencing Hurricane Katrina and gasoline prices. The Original Discriminatory Transport: Slave Ships Civil rights in transportation in the United States has a long history, beginning with the involuntary transportation of slaves to the American colonies. One of the major points about transportation in the United States is made early—it is not necessarily voluntary. The U.S. Constitution addressed this importation, banning its regulation until 1808. An organized system to assist runaway slaves seems to have begun toward the end of the eighteenth century. In 1786, George Washington complained about how one of his runaway slaves was helped by a “society of Quakers, formed for such purposes.” The system grew, and around 1831 it was dubbed the Underground Railroad, after the then emerging steam railroads. The system even used terms used in railroading: the homes and businesses where fugitives would rest and eat were called “stations” or “depots” and were run by “stationmasters,” those who contributed money or goods were “stockholders,” and the “conductor” was responsible for moving fugitives from one station to the next. It effectively moved hundreds of slaves northward each year; according to one estimate, slave states lost 100,000 slaves between 1810 and 1850. Legally Institutionalizing Transport Inequity In part to address this system, the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, ch. 60, 9 Stat. 462 (1850), legislated the return of runaway slaves to their owners. Thus we introduce a second point that runs counter to the American mythic story of social mobility—restrictions on travel. We will much later see echoes of such restrictions in the form of travel to Cuba, starting in 1962, with the U.S. embargo against Cuba. It was codified into law in 1992 with the purpose of bringing democracy to the Cuban people. A third point appears—restrictions on travel as an instrument of U.S. foreign policy. The Fugitive Slave Act provides an extensive legal structure for enforcing the requirement of Article IV, Section 2, of the Constitution and lays out penalties for those impeding its enforcement. The necessity to do so reflects the growing conflict between opponents and proponents of slavery in the United States. The issue ultimately appeared before the Supreme Court, producing one of the most famous of the early race cases, Scott v. Sandford, 60 U.S. 393 (1857), known to history as the Dred Scott decision. The U.S. Supreme Court declared that all blacks—slaves as well as free—were not and could never become citizens of the United States. The Court also declared the 1820 Missouri Compromise unconstitutional, thus permitting slavery in all of the country’s territories. Scott, a slave who had lived in the free state of Illinois and the free territory of Wisconsin before moving back to the slave state of Missouri, had appealed to the Supreme Court in hopes of being granted his freedom. The Court’s majority opinion stated that, because Scott was black, he was not a citizen and therefore had no right to sue. The framers of the Constitution, the opinion stated, believed that blacks “had no rights which the white man was bound to respect; and that the negro might justly and lawfully be reduced to slavery for his benefit. He was bought and sold and treated as an ordinary article of merchandise and traffic, whenever profit could be made by it.” Id. at 407. The Civil Rights Act of 1875, 18 Stat. 335 (1875), required equal accommodations for blacks and whites in public facilities (other than schools). It represents the last congressional effort to protect the civil rights of African Americans for more than half a century. It stated that “all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States shall be entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of inns, public conveyances on land or water . . .” This legislation was effectively voided by the Supreme Court in 1883, through the Civil Rights Cases, 109 U.S. 3 (1883). These were a collection of cases involving the Civil Rights Act of 1875. Over a strong dissent by Justice John Marshall Harlan, the Supreme Court held the act unconstitutional as an exercise of Congress’s powers under Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court ruled 8–1 that Congress had overstepped its authority, and therefore the act was invalid. In 1878, in Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U.S. 485 (1878), the Supreme Court ruled that states cannot prohibit segregation on public transportation. A Louisiana Supreme Court had awarded damages to Josephine DeCuir, an African American woman denied access to a cabin set aside for white passengers during her voyage from New Orleans to Hermitage, Louisiana. The Court held that the Louisiana law on which the damages were based did not apply because the steamboat was a business involved in interstate commerce, which could only be regulated by the U.S. Congress. States could not require carriers engaged in interstate commerce to provide integrated facilities, even for trips that took place only within state borders. The Court’s opinion is said to have clearly indicated its interest in preserving existing racial customs and to have provided a rationale that was eventually used to support the “separate but equal” doctrine. In 1890, in Louisville, New Orleans & Texas Railway v. Mississippi, 133 U.S. 587 (1890), the Court permitted states to segregate public transportation facilities. In 1898, in Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U.S. 537 (1896), the Supreme Court upheld a Louisiana law compelling segregation of the races in rail coaches. To test the law’s constitutionality, Homer Plessy, a Louisianan of mixed race, made a point of exposing himself to arrest for sitting in the whites-only section of a train car. He was acting on the behalf of a Louisiana Citizen’s Committee formed to protest laws established to keep blacks and whites separate. When his case reached the Supreme Court, Plessy argued that enforced segregation in theoretically separate-but-equal accommodations compromised the principle of legal equality and marked blacks as inferior. The Court decided that the Louisiana law did not take away from the federal authority to regulate interstate commerce, nor did it violate the Thirteenth Amendment, which abolished slavery. Additionally, the law did not violate the Fourteenth Amendment, which gave all blacks citizenship, and forbade states from passing any laws that would deprive blacks of their constitutional rights. The Court believed that separate but equal was the most reasonable approach, considering the social prejudices that prevailed at the time. The years 1900 to 1920 brought full extension of segregation to all southern public transportation. More than four hundred state laws, constitutional amendments, and city ordinances legalizing segregation and discrimination were passed in the United States between 1865 and 1967. Several states even prohibited hearses from carrying both races. Even the dead could not be transported equally. The Transportation-Education Nexus Transportation is closely intertwined with education. For example, in Clarendon County, South Carolina, residents filed a lawsuit in 1947 to provide bus transportation to black children. That suit was dismissed, but in 1950, 107 parents and children signed onto a second lawsuit seeking equal school buildings, equal teacher pay, equal textbooks, and equal transportation. This case, Briggs v. Elliott, 342 U.S. 350 (1952), was combined with lawsuits in Delaware, Virginia, Washington, D.C., and Kansas to become Brown v. the Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954), ending segregation in public schools through holding the doctrine of separate but equal to be unconstitutional. Historian C. Vann Woodward has estimated that 106 new segregation laws were passed between the Brown decision and the end of 1956. By May 1964, the South had enacted 450 laws and resolutions to frustrate the Supreme Court’s decision. The Importance of Transport to Civil Rights The modern civil rights movement is tied up with transportation modes, including the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the Freedom Riders, and the desegregation of the interstate bus system. The Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U.S.C. 316(d), as early as 1887 had forbade any interstate common carrier by motor vehicle to subject any person to unjust discrimination. On December 1, 1955, Rosa Parks, a black seamstress and secretary of the local National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) chapter, was arrested for refusing to obey a Montgomery, Alabama, bus driver’s order to give her seat up for a boarding white passenger, as required by city ordinance. Outrage in Montgomery’s black community over her arrest sparked a boycott against the city’s bus line, the Montgomery Bus Boycott. Working closely with a long-active African American leadership in Montgomery, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. emerged as the president of the Montgomery Improvement Association (MIA), which organized the boycott. As the MIA’s demands expanded beyond more flexibility in bus seating to include more equal access to other municipal services, racial tensions increased. Preaching a course of nonviolence, Dr. King was convinced that the cause could be won through a combination of dignified behavior and economic pressure by the protesters. The boycott ended in December 1956, over a year after it began. That year, the MIA filed suit in federal district court to challenge the constitutionality of local bus segregation laws. The court ruled in favor of the MIA in June 1956, but the city challenged the ruling and the case went to the Supreme Court. This resulted in a ruling on November 13, 1956, that segregation on city buses was unconstitutional. The defendants were represented by Thurgood Marshall. In Boynton v. Virginia, 364 U.S. 454 (1960), the Supreme Court stated, “When a bus carrier has volunteered to make terminal and restaurant facilities and services available to its interstate passengers as a regular part of their transportation, and the terminal and restaurant have acquiesced and cooperated in this undertaking, the terminal and restaurant must perform these services without discriminations . . .” The Freedom Rides occurred in 1961, when journalists reported on the bus rides of whites and blacks who set off from Washington in a heroic action to test compliance with the court’s ruling. Angry white mobs attacked the Freedom Riders as they got off the buses. The Freedom Rides, organized primarily by the Congress on Racial Equality (CORE), were one of the first times in which the civil rights movement consciously used the power of the media, in this case mostly print journalists, to win people over to its cause. At the same time as African Americans were being victimized and deprived of their rights through transportation, so, too, were Native Americans. By 1842, Presidents Jackson and Van Buren had forcibly removed most of the Seminoles and Cherokee to Oklahoma along the now infamous Trail of Tears. In one of the meaner ironies of American history, some Cherokees brought their own slaves along. Railroads benefited from displacing Indians from the land on which they lived and hunted. President Lincoln and succeeding presidents gave the Union Pacific more land than the combined area of Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Vermont. The Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe received over 2,928,928 acres in Kansas. By 1872, the giveaway to the railroad owners of land taken by force from the Native Americans had amounted to 155,000,000 acres, an area almost equal to the New England states, New York, and Pennsylvania combined. Transportation is a tool of social policy, removal, and repression. Again, the issues reverberate in the present. Some tribes in the North Central states object to transportation of nuclear waste by railroad across their lands. This is a major environmental justice issue for Native Americans in that part of the country. During slavery, companies purchased slaves to work on the railroads. For example, it is documented that, as early as 1838, a southern railroad company purchased 140 slaves for $159,000 to work on constructing a railroad line in Mississippi. We see a similar use of people of color to build the nation’s transcontinental railways, by Chinese and Irish. We forget today that at that time the Irish were often considered colored. How Transport Spread Civil Rights From their beginning in 1868, plush Pullman train cars (named for George Pullman, owner of the Pullman Palace Car Company) were staffed mostly by black porters, many of them newly freed slaves. African Americans were concentrated in railroad work because they were excluded from many other occupations, while the Pullman Company and the railroad industry actively recruited them. By the 1920s, the Pullman Company, with 20,224 black employees, was the largest employer of black workers in the United States and Canada. The Pullman porters organized and spread the word of possible social mobility across the United States. The troubled relationship between African Americans and the labor move?ment is shown by the all-black Brother?hood of Sleeping Car Porters Union, because it was denied membership by the American Railway Union. Therefore, the porters did not join the famous 1894 strike against the Pullman Car Works in Chicago, led by Eugene Debs. Similarly, blacks were not permitted to join longshoremen’s and dockworker’s unions, and were used as scabs in the West Coast strikes in the 1930s until a deal was brokered, initiated by African Americans, to not be used as scabs if they were admitted to the unions. The Pullman Company had often used Asians to weaken the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters’ union recognition drive, and it is believed that this led to the opposition to Asian immigration to the United States by the leader of the sleeping car porters, A. Philip Randolph. This can be seen as one of the unfortunate antecedents to today’s tensions between Asian Americans and African Americans in inner cities, as the recently remembered fifteenth anniversary of the 1992 Los Angeles riots pointed out, which in part pitted African Americans against Korean American business owners. This is another theme of transportation equity in the United States—the setting of one group of people of color against another. There is a direct connection between the Sleeping Car Porters Union and the Montgomery Bus Boycott. E. D. Nixon was a leader in the union and a close associate of Randolph. He became president of the Voters League of Montgomery in 1944 and was also the leader of the NAACP in Alabama. He was a major organizer in building the bus boycott and became chairman of the MIA. Another veteran of the Sleeping Car Porters Union was Bayard Rustin, who worked with Randolph to open unions to black workers and set up apprentice training programs. Bayard became head of the A. Philip Randolph Institute in 1964, training black workers to move into decent union jobs. In Canada, the black porters’ struggle for unionization and equality is considered to be one of the great achievements of Canadian black history. Building—and Using—American Roads As the road net in the United States was improved, the chain gang was created. In several southern states, the criminal justice system was used to sentence blacks to chain gangs, where the mortality rate in some camps was over 40 percent. Many of these chain gangs worked on building roads. Chain gangs originated as a part of the mass organization at the turn of the twentieth century to create quality roads. In the 1890s, Good Roads Associations were developed in each of the southern states. They established a statutory labor system, in which every able-bodied road hand in the state was required to work for four or five days a year on public roads and highways. In one county in Florida in the 1920s, about 60 percent of those imprisoned and forced to work on chain gangs was black. Just as African Americans provided the free labor to build and maintain the economy of the pre–Civil War South, they did so again to build the South’s road net. In 1940, 74 percent of American blacks lived in the South. Approximately five million migrated north over the next twenty-five years. During the northern black migration, African American sleeping car porters who worked for railroads were an important link between North and South. Porters traveled the country, had connections in the black communities in the rural South and in northern cities, and facilitated the northern migration. Transportation has been an opportunity for advancement (for example, Pullman porter and teamster jobs), a way to obtain social mobility (the internal migration north of African Americans following the Civil War), a means of separation (“the wrong side of the tracks”), and a form of destruction of minority neighborhoods (Urban Renewal, also called Negro Removal). During World War II, many African Americans served in stevedore and transportation units in the segregated Army forces. The demands of the transportation industry helped fuel the migration of African Americans to the West Coast. During World War II, there was great demand for workers in shipyards and aircraft plants. Los Angeles, the San Francisco Bay Area, Portland, and Seattle all experienced large influxes of African Americans from the South and Texas to work in war industries. After World War II, the creation of the interstate highway system made white flight from cities possible and exacerbated social problems in inner cities. Lack of employment in African American communities was not addressed by this massive construction program because of a lack of local hiring preferences. Lack of economic opportunities for African Americans helped create the demand for affirmative action and disadvantaged business enterprise programs. Even today, the affirmative action programs of the U.S. Department of Transportation are controversial and subject to challenge. See, for example, the Adarand line of court decisions concerning preferences in contracts for road construction. There is also a close intersection between transportation and housing. Housing segregation contributed to the disconnect between workers and jobs. Many African American workers were confined to inner city neighborhoods, while jobs increasingly became located in outer suburban areas and around airports, requiring inordinately long and costly commutes. This disconnect has led to welfare-to-work programs, to try to join together those who use social welfare or benefits programs with work. Traveling to Where, Exactly? Transportation, education, and housing make up the three-legged stool that continues the vestiges of previous illegal (and legal) segregation. Today, we still see these vestiges. African American car ownership is the lowest of any racial or ethnic group in the United States. While some environmentalists may find this fact delightful, it has real negative implications when disaster strikes. In Hurricane Katrina in 2005, many African Americans could not evacuate using plans based on cars. At this writing, polls show that the rapidly rising price of gasoline in the United States is not yet a hardship for most of those polled. But African Americans, who have far less family wealth and discretionary income than whites, will inevitably feel the pinch of gasoline prices more than others. The travel of a group that already travels less than other groups will be restricted further. African Americans have made progress in the United States, but only from actual shackles on slave ships to the economic shackles of high gasoline prices, predatory lending, foreclosure, poor inner city schools, continuing job discrimination, and regressive taxes.

**The truth is, the populations of New Orleans were rendered disposable long before Katrina struck – focusing solely on the failures of evacuation infrastructure masks the structural issues of racism and poverty in New Orleans. Their speech act hides the root of the problem.**
Neil **deMause**, July/August 20**06** (columnist for Metro NY and a regular contributor to Extra! and the Village Voice, “Katrina’s Vanishing Victims,” http://www.fair.org/index.php?page=2933 >:)
It doesn't help that poverty is a complicated, multifaceted issue—"frankly, it's a story that's not very good on television," notes Deggans—at a time when staffing cutbacks have left most newspapers unable to devote reporters to any but the simplest topics. "I would be amazed if anybody but the biggest papers had anybody whose beat was poverty," says Deggans. "And for sure none of the TV networks do." The media's strongest coverage of Katrina and the poor, ultimately, came where they were on the most familiar ground: FEMA's bungled response to the emergency, culminating in widespread coverage of the "what did the president know and when did he know it?" angle when videotapes emerged revealing that Bush was warned of the likelihood of disaster well before the storm hit (MSNBC, 3/1/06; CNN, 3/2/06; USA Today, 3/1/06). Yet while the investigation of the failures of emergency response was important, it fell well short of the promise that media would finally confront the realities of poverty in the U.S. What Slate's Jack Shafer had written during the height of the storm (8/31/05) remained true months later: "I don't recall any reporter exploring the class issue directly by getting a paycheck-to-paycheck victim to explain that he couldn't risk leaving because if he lost his furniture and appliances, his pots and pans, his bedding and clothes, to Katrina or looters, he'd have no way to replace them. . . . What I wouldn't pay to hear a Fox anchor ask, 'Say, Bob, why are these African-Americans so poor to begin with?'"

**The problem with the affirmative is that, while they understand how racism in institutions implicated the failure of evacuation operations in Hurricane Katrina, their only possible resolution to this is to call for more state action – this ignores the ways in which racism has become institutionalized in civil society. The government’s everyday job is to uphold white supremacy – strategies for reformism will inevitably lead to further retrenchment of racism.**
Tansy **Woan**, 20**11**, Master of Arts in Philosophy, Politics, and Law in the Graduate School of Binghamton University, “THE VALUE OF RESISTANCE IN A PERMANENTLY WHITE, CIVIL SOCIETY,” http://gradworks.umi.com/14/96/1496586.html, p. 9-15
Stokely Carmichael and Charles V. Hamilton, in then influential Black Power, describe reformist strategies as "playing ball" with the white man. They argue that reform plays the white man's game in order to gain rights, i.e. appeal to a white supremacist government that is the precise agent responsible for the original harms they are seeking to alleviate.9 While this may very well result in the granting of new rights previously denied, it maintains a hierarchical system between whites and nonwhites, since the latter will have to continue to appeal to the former to ask for rights they never should have been denied in the first place. This places the former in a position of power to accept or deny such requests. Thus, in Carmichael and Hamilton's view, attempting to resist white supremacy by working within white supremacist institutions maintains a dangerous system of power relations that lock in place the hierarchy between whites and nonwhites. / It is unfortunate enough that members of minority groups face public and private racial discrimination. It is worse, however, to place the burden of combating this discrimination on them. What Carmichael and Hamilton aptly point out is that the hierarchy between races mentioned above is what is responsible for this undue burden. There is not only the constant physical struggle of protesting, writing letters, and being dragged through litigation that can often get expensive, but there is the psychological struggle as well. Why am I not worthy of equal protection under the law? Why is it that others do not even notice the disparate impact of the law? Or, even worse, why is it that those who do notice, seem to not care? / What inevitably comes with these types of reformist strategies is an emotional struggle, namely, an inferiority complex that makes the victimized individual stop and wonder — who put the white man in charge of my body? Appeals to the federal government to repeal discriminatory acts that deny minorities rights becomes analogous to asking whites to eliminate such policies and to allow others access to the same rights they enjoy every day. The racial state becomes in charge of what nonwhites can and cannot do, and when nonwhites continue to go to whites asking them to pass certain policies, nonwhites further legitimate this system of power relations. It is difficult to see how true equality can be achieved wider such a system. / B. Missing the Root Cause: The Racial State / Omi and Winant further support this claim and explain that it is not merely individual policies passed by the United States federal government that are racist, but that racial oppression is a structure of the government itself.10 They describe this structure as the "racial state" to show that the state does not merely support racism, but rather, it supports the concept of race itself. As will be discussed later in this paper, Omi and Winant explain how the state is the agent that has defined race, and that this definition has evolved over time, to maintain the concept of race and support racism. / Given the existence of the racial state, Omi and Winant critique reformist strategies as falling short of achieving normative goals of eliminating racism since the reforms merely get re-equilibriated. A look at the history of racial victories in the United States further supports this critique. Racial victories for one minority were often made possible only with the entrapment of another racial minority. For example, while many celebrate the racial victory of the 1954 Brown v. Board decision, many fail to see this happened the same year as Operation Wetback, which shifted the racial discrimination to a different population, removing close to one million illegal immigrants, mostly Mexicans, from the United States.11 Moreover, soon after the ratification of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments granting citizenship and suffrage to Blacks. Congress chose to deny citizenship to Chinese immigrants.12 In 1941, shortly after the establishment of the Committee on Fair Employment Practices permitted Blacks into defense industries, Japanese Americans were taken from their homes and sent off to internment camps.15 Pei-te Lien argues that all of these "coincidences" support critiques of reformist strategies that merely target individual policies, since without challenging the racial state as a whole, even the elimination of these individual policies will fail to eliminate racism, as they will simply replicate themselves or shift elsewhere and target racial minorities in different ways.14 / C. Separatist Movements / This helps to explain why political activists began adopting other more revolutionary strategies. Contrary to Martin Luther King Jr. and many of his followers during the Civil Rights Movement, the Black Power Movement emerged and began advocating for more separatist strategies that rejected making reformist appeals to the United States federal government. In his speech "The Ballot or the Bullet," Malcolm X argued: / When you take your case to Washington D.C., you're taking it to the criminal who's responsible: it's like miming from the wolf to the fox. They're all in cahoots together. They all work political chicanery and make you look like a chump before the eyes of the world. Here you are walking around in America, getting ready to be drafted and sent abroad, like a tin soldier, and when you get over there, people ask you what you are fighting for, and you have to stick your tongue in your cheek. No, take Uncle Sam to court, take him before the world. / Critics of reformist strategies, such as Malcolm X, understood the United States as being inherently racial and thus incapable of reform. They use the "coincidences" listed above as evidence to support this claim. They view the United States federal government as a racial state that will merely continue to define race in new and more modernized ways, ensuring the permanence of racism with the passage of new policies supporting these definitions. This is why they believe reformists are wrong to attack individual policies, rather than the racial state itself. / For example, the legal enforcement of a racially discriminatory housing covenant may have been justified due to a racist belief that members of the minority race restricted from acquiring title within that neighborhood is inferior to the Caucasian race. More specifically, one might support said covenant because one believes the inferiority of that minority race and the potential they might become your neighbor will result in a decrease in the fair market value of your property. After vigorous ongoing protests from civil rights activists, that particular law enforcing those covenants might get repealed. However, the reason for the repeal of that law might arise not from an ethical epiphany, but rather an economic rationale in which the homeowner is shown his property value will remain unaffected, or perhaps even increase. Thus, that particular act may get repealed, but the policymakers responsible for its original draft will still be in power, and will maintain the same beliefs that motivated that piece of legislation in the first place. Because there has been no ethical realization of the injustice in their conduct, the chances remain high that they will construct new, apparently different but equally discriminatory policies that will force activists to join forces once again and continue the same fight. / This is why it is not the individual policies, but the government itself that is the "preeminent site of racial conflict."17 Omi and Winant's proposal of the "racial state" views the government as "inherently racial," meaning it does not simply intervene in racial conflicts, but it is the locus of racial conflict.18 In addition to structuring conceptions of race, the government in the United States is in and of itself racially structured.19 State policies govern racial politics, heavily influencing the public on how race should be viewed. The ways in which it does so changes over time, often taking on a more invisible nature. For example, Omi and Winant describe the racial state as treating race in different ways throughout different periods of time, first as a biologically based essence, and then as an ideology, etc. These policies are followed by racial remedies offered by government institutions, in response to political pressures and in accordance to these different treatments of race, varying in degree depending on the magnitude of the threats those pressures pose to the order of society.20

**This flips all their education arguments – regardless of how they articulate their micro-level demand, their discourse is inexorably tied with the macro structures of whiteness.**
Pierre **Schlag**, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 19**90**, “Normative and Nowhere to Go,” Lexis-Nexis
All of this can seem very funny. That's because it is very funny. It is also deadly serious. It is deadly serious, because all this normative legal thought, as Robert Cover explained, takes place in a field of pain and death. n56 And in a very real sense Cover was right. Yet as it takes place, normative legal thought is playing language games -- utterly oblivious to the character of the language games it plays, and thus, utterly uninterested in considering its own rhetorical and political contributions (or lack thereof) to the field of pain and death. To be sure, normative legal thinkers are often genuinely concerned with reducing the pain and the death. However, the problem is not what normative legal thinkers do with normative legal thought, but what normative legal thought does with normative legal thinkers. What is missing in normative legal thought is any serious questioning, let alone tracing, of the relations that the practice, the rhetoric, the routine of normative legal thought have (or do not have) to the field of pain and death. / And there is a reason for that: Normative legal thought misunderstands its own situation. Typically, normative legal thought understands itself to be outside the field of pain and death and in charge of organizing and policing that field. It is as if the action of normative legal thought could be separated from the background field of pain and death. This theatrical distinction is what allows normative legal thought its own self-important, self-righteous, self-image -- its congratulatory sense of its own accomplishments and effectiveness. / All this self-congratulation works very nicely so long as normative legal [*188] thought continues to imagine itself as outside the field of pain and death and as having effects within that field. n57 Yet it is doubtful this image can be maintained. It is not so much the case that normative legal thought has effects on the field of pain and death -- at least not in the direct, originary way it imagines. Rather, it is more the case that normative legal thought is the pattern, is the operation of the bureaucratic distribution and the institutional allocation of the pain and the death. n58 And apart from the leftover ego-centered rationalist rhetoric of the eighteenth century (and our routine), there is nothing at this point to suggest that we, as legal thinkers, are in control of normative legal thought. / The problem for us, as legal thinkers, is that the normative appeal of normative legal thought systematically turns us away from recognizing that normative legal thought is grounded on an utterly unbelievable re-presentation of the field it claims to describe and regulate. The problem for us is that normative legal thought, rather than assisting in the understanding of present political and moral situations, stands in the way. It systematically reinscribes its own aesthetic -- its own fantastic understanding of the political and moral scene. n59 Until normative legal thought begins to deal with its own paradoxical postmodern rhetorical situation, it will remain something of an irresponsible enterprise. In its rhetorical structure, it will continue to populate the legal academic world with individual humanist subjects who think themselves empowered Cartesian egos, but who are largely the manipulated constructions of bureaucratic practices -- academic and otherwise. / To the extent possible, it is important to avoid this kind of category mistake. For instance, it is important to understand that your automobile insurance adjuster is not simply some updated version of the eighteenth century *189 individual humanist subject. Even though the insurance adjuster will quite often engage you in normative talk-- arguing with you about responsibility, fairness, fault, allocation of blame, adequacy of compensation, and the like-- he is unlikely to be terribly receptive or susceptible to any authentic normative dialogue. His normative competence, his normative sensitivity, is scripted somewhere else. It is important to be clear about these things. The contemporary lawyer, for instance, may talk the normative rhetoric of the eighteenth century individual humanist subject. But make no mistake: This normative or humanist rhetoric is very likely the unfolding of bureaucratic logic. The modern lawyer is very often a kind of meta-insurance adjuster. And that makes you and me, as legal academics, trainers of meta-insurance adjusters. This is perhaps an unpleasant realization. One of the most important effects of normative legal thought is to intercede here so that we, as legal academics, do not have to confront this unpleasant realization. Normative legal thought allows us to pretend that we are preparing our students to become Atticus Finch [FN61] while we are in fact training people who will enter the meta-insurance adjustment business. For our students, this role-confusion is unlikely to be very funny. It will get even less so upon their graduation -- when they learn that Atticus Finch has been written out of the script. For us, of course, it is a pleasant fantasy to think we are teaching Atticus Finch. When the fantasy is over, it becomes one hell of a category mistake. And in the rude transition from the one to the other, Atticus Finch can quickly turn into Dan Quayle. In fact, if you train your students to become Atticus Finch, they will likely end up as Dan Quayle – cognitively defenseless against the regimenting and monitoring practices of bureaucratic institutions. Atticus Finch, as admirable as he may be, has none of the cognitive or critical resources necessary to understand the duplicities of the bureaucratic networks within which we operate. Apart from the fantasies of the legal academy, there is no longer a place in America for a lawyer like Atticus Finch. There is nothing for him to do here -- nothing he can do. He is a moral character in a world where the role of moral thought has become at best highly ambivalent, a normative thinker in a world where normative legal thought is already largely the bureaucratic logic of institutions.

**White supremacy is a global modality of genocidal violence – slavery may have ended in name, but its operational logic continues to fester. Reformist measures simply provide fuel for Whiteness.**
**Rodriguez ’11** [Dylan, PhD in Ethnic Studies Program of the University of California Berkeley and Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of California Riverside, “The Black Presidential Non-Slave: Genocide and the Present Tense of Racial Slavery”, Political Power and Social Theory Vol. 22, pp. 38-43]
To crystallize what I hope to be the potentially useful implications of this provocation toward a retelling of the slavery-abolition story: if we follow the narrative and theoretical trajectories initiated here, it should take little stretch of the historical imagination, nor a radical distension of analytical framing, to suggest that the singular institutionalization of racist and peculiarly antiblack social/state violence in our living era - the US imprisonment regime and its conjoined policing and criminalization apparatuses - elaborates the social logics of genocidal racial slavery within the American nation-building project, especially in the age of Obama. The formation and astronomical growth of the prison industrial complex has become a commonly identified institutional marker of massively scaled racist state mobilization, and the fundamental violence of this apparatus is in the prison's translation of the 13th Amendment's racist animus. By "reforming" slavery and anti-slave violence, and directly transcribing both into criminal justice rituals, proceedings, and punishments, the 13th Amendment permanently inscribes slavery on "post-emancipation" US statecraft. The state remains a "slave state" to the extent that it erects an array of institutional apparatuses that are specifically conceived to reproduce or enhance the state's capacity to "create" (i.e., criminalize and convict) prison chattel and politically legitimate the processes of enslavement/imprisonment therein. The crucial starting point for our narrative purposes is that the emergence of the criminalization and carceral apparatus over the last forty years has not, and in the foreseeable future will not build its institutional protocols around the imprisonment of an economically productive or profitmaking prison labor force (Gilmore, 1999).16 So, if not for use as labor under the 13th Amendment's juridical mandate of "involuntary servitude," what is the animating structural-historical logic behind the formation of an imprisonment regime unprecedented in human history in scale and complexity, and which locks up well over a million Black people, significantly advancing numbers of "nonwhite" Latinos as, and in which the white population is vastly underrepresented in terms of both numbers imprisoned and likelihood to be prosecuted (and thus incarcerated) for similar alleged criminal offenses?17 In excess of its political economic, geographic, and juridical registers, the contemporary US prison regime must be centrally understood as constituting an epoch-defining statecraft of race: a historically specific conceptualization, planning, and institutional mobilization of state institutional capacities and state-influenced cultural structures to reproduce and/or reassemble the social relations of power, dominance, and violence that constitute the ontology (epistemic and conceptual framings) of racial meaning itself (da Silva, 2007; Goldberg, 1993). In this case, the racial ontology of the postslavery and post-civil rights prison is anchored in the crisis of social meaning wrought on white civil society by the 13th Amendment's apparent juridical elimination of the Black chattel slave being. Across historical periods, the social inhabitation of the white civil subject - - its self-recognition, institutionally affirmed (racial) sovereignty, and everyday social intercourse with other racial beings - is made legible through its positioning as the administrative authority and consenting audience for the nation- and civilization-building processes of multiple racial genocides. It is the bare fact of the white subject's access and entitlement to the generalized position of administering and consenting to racial genocide that matters most centrally here. Importantly, this white civil subject thrives on the assumption that s/he is not, and will never be the target of racial genocide.18 (Williams, 2010) .Those things obtained and secured through genocidal processes - land, political and military hegemony/dominance, expropriated labor - are in this sense secondary to the raw relation of violence that the white subject inhabits in relation to the racial objects (including people, ecologies, cultural forms, sacred materials, and other modalities of life and being) subjected to the irreparable violations of genocidal processes. It is this raw relation, in which white social existence materially and narratively consolidates itself within the normalized systemic logics of racial genocides, that forms the condition of possibility for the US social formation, from "abolition" onward. To push the argument further: the distended systems of racial genocides are not the massively deadly means toward some other (rational) historical ends, but are ends within themselves. Here we can decisively depart from the hegemonic juridical framings of "genocide" as dictated by the United Nations, and examine instead the logics of genocide that dynamically structure the different historical-social forms that have emerged from the classically identifiable genocidal systems of racial colonial conquest, indigenous physical and cultural extermination, and racial chattel slavery. To recall Trask and Marable, the historical logics of genocide permeate institutional assemblages that variously operationalize the historical forces of planned obsolescence, social neutralization, and "ceasing to exist." Centering a conception of racial genocide as a dynamic set of sociohistorical logics (rather than as contained, isolatable historical episodes) allows the slavery-to-prison continuity to be more clearly marked: the continuity is not one that hinges on the creation of late-20th and early-list century "slave labor," but rather on a re-institutionalization of anti-slave social violence. Within this historical schema, the post-1970s prison regime institutionalizes the raw relation of violence essential to white social being while mediating it so it appears as non-genocidal, non-violent, peacekeeping, and justice-forming. This is where we can also narrate the contemporary racial criminalization, policing, and incarcerating apparatuses as being historically tethered to the genocidal logics of the post-abolition, post-emancipation, and post-civil rights slave state. While it is necessary to continuously clarify and debate whether and how this statecraft of racial imprisonment is verifiably genocidal, there seems to be little reason to question that it is, at least, protogenocidal - displaying both the capacity and inclination for genocidal outcomes in its systemic logic and historical trajectory. This contextualization leads toward a somewhat different analytical framing of the "deadly symbiosis" that sociologist Loi'c Wacquant has outlined in his account of antiblack carceral-spatial systems. While it would be small-minded to suggest that the emergence of the late-20th century prison regime is an historical inevitability, we should at least understand that the structural bottom line of Black imprisonment over the last four decades - wherein the quantitative fact of a Black prison/jail majority has become taken-for-granted as a social fact - is a contemporary institutional manifestation of a genocidal racial substructure that has been reformed, and not fundamentally displaced, by the juridical and cultural implications of slavery's abolition. I have argued elsewhere for a conception of the US prison not as a selfcontained institution or isolated place, but rather as a material prototype of organized punishment and (social, civil, and biological) death (Rodriguez, 2006). To understand the US prison as a regime is to focus conceptually, theoretically, and politically on the prison as a pliable module or mobilized vessel through which technologies of racial domin8ance institutionalize their specific, localized practices of legitimated (state) violence. Emerging as the organic institutional continuity of racial slavery's genocidal violence, the US prison regime represents a form of human domination that extends beyond and outside the formal institutional and geographic domains of "the prison (the jail, etc.)." In this sense, the prison is the institutional signification of a larger regime of proto-genocidal violence that is politically legitimized by the state, generally valorized by the cultural common sense, and dynamically mobilized and institutionally consolidated across different historical moments: it is a form of social power that is indispensable to the contemporary (and postemancipation) social order and its changing structures of racial dominance, in a manner that elaborates the social logics of genocidal racial slavery. The binding presence of slavery within post-emancipation US state formation is precisely why the liberal multiculturalist narration of the Obama ascendancy finds itself compelled to posit an official rupture from the spectral and material presence of enslaved racial blackness. It is this symbolic rupturing - the presentation of a president who consummates the liberal dreams of Black citizenship. Black freedom, Black non-resentment, and Black patriotic subjectivity - that constructs the Black non-slave presidency as the flesh-and-blood severance of the US racial/racist state from its entanglement in the continuities of antiblack genocide. Against this multiculturalist narrative, our attention should be principally fixated on the bottom-line Blackness of the prison's genocidal logic, not the fungible Blackness of the presidency. CONCLUSION: FROM "POST-CIVIL RIGHTS" TO WHITE RECONSTRUCTION The Obama ascendancy is the signature moment of the post-1960s White Reconstruction, a period that has been characterized by the reformist elaboration of historically racist systems of social power to accommodate the political imperatives of American apartheid's downfall and the emergence of hegemonic (liberal-to-conservative) multiculturalisms. Byfocusing on how such reforms have neither eliminated nor fundamentally alleviated the social emergencies consistently produced by the historical logics of racial genocide, the notion of White Reconstruction departs from Marable's notion of the 1990s as the "twilight of the Second Reconstruction" (Marable. 2007. p. 216)19 and points toward another way of framing and narrating the period that has been more commonly referenced as the "post-civil rights" era. Rather than taking its primary point of historical departure to be the cresting of the Civil Rights Movement and its legacy of delimited (though no less significant) political-cultural achievements. White Reconstruction focuses on how this era is denned by an acute and sometimes aggressive reinvention and reorganization of the structural-institutional formations of racial dominance. Defined schematically, the recent half-century has encompassed a generalized reconstruction of "classically" white supremacist apparatuses of state-sanctioned and culturally legitimated racial violence. This general reconstruction has (1) strategically and unevenly dislodged various formal and de facto institutional white monopolies and diversified their personnel at various levels of access, from the entry-level to the administrative and executive levels (e.g., the sometimes aggressive diversity recruitment campaigns of research universities, urban police, and the military); while simultaneously (2) revamping, complicating, and enhancing the social relations of dominance, hierarchy, and violence mobilized by such institutions - relations that broadly reflect the long historical, substructural role of race in the production of the US national formation and socioeconomic order. In this sense, the notion of White Reconstruction brings central attention to how the historical logics of racial genocide may not only survive the apparent disruption of classical white monopolies on the administrative and institutional apparatuses that have long mobilized these violent social logics, but may indeed flourish through these reformist measures, as such logics are re-adapted into the protocols and discourses of these newly "diversified" racist and white supremacist apparatuses (e.g.. the apparatuses of the research university, police, and military have expanded their capacities to produce local and global relations of racial dominance, at the same time that they have constituted some of the central sites for diversity recruitment and struggles over equal access). It is, at the very least, a remarkable and dreadful moment in the historical time of White Reconstruction that a Black president has won office in an electoral landslide while well over a million Black people are incarcerated with the overwhelming consent of white/multiculturalist civil society.

**The very possibility of ethics and freedom resides in a rejection of the affirmative’s ratification of democracy, the state and civil society. Resisting the lure of anti-blackness through a genealogy of history’s constitutive void is the starting point for imagining a new world.**
**Kokontis** 20**11** (Kate, PhD in Performance Studies from UC-Berkeley, “Performative Returns and the Rememory of History: genealogy and performativity in the American racial state,” Dissertation available on Proquest)
On one hand, she addresses the literal politics that the theological narratives espouse. There is a long tradition of deploying the Exodus narrative toward the pursuit of social reform. That is, instead of appealing to it in a way that focuses on the next world, “[t]hrough biblical typology, particularly uses of Exodus, African Americans elevated their common experiences to biblical drama and found resources to account for their circumstances and respond effectively to them. [...] Exodus history sustained hope and a sense of possibility in the face of insurmountable evil. The analogical uses of the story enabled a sense of agency and resistance in persistent moments of despair and disillusionment.”64 But even these efforts have – not exclusively, but often – relied on a particular iteration of the social gospel that presupposes a set of moral and institutional imperatives (for instance, the ideal of training racial, religious, sexual, social, or institutional “deviants” or outlyers to behave according to an ostensibly correct set of moral principles) that run counter to a radical critique of the underlying terms of the state and civil society which tend to ratify, naturalize, and invisibilize antiblackness and/or policies that adversely impact black people who are not part of the middle class, rather than to critique or subvert it. Hartman, on the other hand, does call for, and mount, a radical critique of the terms of the state and civil society: for her, they are inherently unethical rather than redeemable, having engendered centuries of black social death and historical unknowability, and thus any struggle toward freedom demands an unflinching critical analysis rather than an implicit or explicit ratification of these institutions and the terms on which they are predicated. But more fundamentally, she addresses the political implications of the assumptive logic of a theological teleology. I interpret Hartman to posit that there is a kind of freedom that can be predicated on not-knowing: if there is no predetermined future, there is no divine imperative that might encourage an investment in the moral prescriptions of a conservative social gospel: a toppled faith in the redemptive possibilities of the struggle has the potential to open the door to invention, speculation, refashioning, and cobbling together something from nothing, presence from absence. I interpret her to posit that a viable freedom dream necessitates the acknowledgment of loss and absence and the history of processes of dehumanizing antiblackness, the acknowledgement of the wound and its psychic, social, political, and ethical causes – as well as an acknowledgement of its persistence – rather than being deluded by tidy or optimistic but under-analyzed narratives of progress or redemption. Only then can any realistic stock be taken toward re-imagining the world and the possibilities and imperatives of a black freedom struggle. While Haley and Gates draw on narratives that say that the past, including its suffering, was meaningful, Hartman offers what might appear to be a much bleaker interpretation that insists that it is meaningless insofar as it is not folded into any sort of teleology. But in that is a kind of freedom/dream, because the subjects of her narrative are free from a predetermination of the terms on which liberation is possible, the structures around its enactment. What she calls for is a profound refashioning of the epistemology of the invisible, which is as fundamental a component of the black freedom struggle as is an epistemology of verifiable evidence of oppression. That is, she advocates the excavation of psychic structures and historical silences to replace an implicit or explicit faith in a divine logic in the (racial) order of things. Genealogy cannot connect with the unknown, so it becomes a ghost story, an excavation. The term might then be interpreted less as a means of accessing literal ancestors, and more as a process toward understanding. Hartman constructs, in her text, not a genealogy of anyone’s family, but a genealogy of the stranger, of the slave; a genealogy of loss, of the lost, of searching. Projects that make use of imaginative, performative, quasi-fictional or poetic devices can’t rest with not-knowing: the imaginative devices emerge, in fact, from attempts to piece together or construct/invent evidence from its lack. They all insist on the importance of knowing, whether because of some large-scale sense of collective responsibility, or because of personal yearning, or both. The imaginative devices don’t exist for the sake of being imaginative; they exist for the sake of survival. But in being imaginative, they allow for radical possibilities to emerge that literality forecloses. Part of what performance might offer the study of history is a) different keys to be able to fill in the gaps, that aren’t so heavily reliant upon explicit, legible empiricism, and b) not only permission for, but encouragement of what uncertainty can yield. Genealogy, broadly understood, is what furnishes evidence: it is the key to filling in blanks that are impossible to fill. One version of it is capable of being profoundly literal; of making reconstruction possible; it is used to fill in the blank that has been lost to us – whomever the ‘us’ is: the dispossessed, displaced, marginalized – providing an object to slip into a gaping negative space. This I would call genealogy as an object. A different version is used in order to understand the gaps, to underscore or illuminate the negative spaces and ask how they came to be, and filling in the context around the blank spaces, inheriting the loss, becomes the way to trace the relationship between the past, present, and future. This I would call genealogy as a process. What, then, is or could be critical or even radical in roots-seeking genealogy projects? There is something inherently conservative about nostalgia, according to most interpretations; but not if a notion of “radical nostalgia,” such as that offered by Peter Glazer, is pursued: such an enactment of notalgia engages in worldmaking and invention; the definition takes for granted that nostalgia is for worlds and times that never existed, and that therefore it is not conservative (i.e. about returning to an idealized past), but that it is creative and always seeking something new. Performative returns are inevitably projects of yearning, of wishing for a past that was imagined to be better than the present (which has devolved in some way) or a future that has promise and potential. The mythical Aztec homeland Aztlán that was made popular during the Chicano Movement is a very elegant example: it is a wished-for, utopian space, acknowledged as being impossible to realize, but always animating the spirit of the concrete efforts of its adherents toward social justice and structural change (see Anaya and Lomelí 1991). Hartman writes: “To believe, as I do, that the enslaved are our contemporaries is to understand that we share their aspirations and defeats, which isn’t to say that we are owed what they were due but rather to acknowledge that they accompany our every effort to fight against domination, to abolish the color line, and to imagine a free territory, a new commons. It is to take to heart their knowledge of freedom. The enslaved knew that freedom had to be taken; it wasn’t something that could ever be given to you. The kind of freedom that could be given to you could just as easily be taken back. [...] The demands of the slave on the present have everything to do with making good the promise of abolition, and this entails much more than the end of property in slaves. It requires the reconstruction of society, which is the only way to honor our debt to the dead. This is the intimacy of our age with theirs – an unfinished struggle. To what end does one conjure the ghost of slavery, if not to incite the hopes of transforming the present?” (Hartman 2007, 269-270). But performative return is not necessarily critical, and part of what I demonstrate throughout this dissertation is how such projects are always more complicated than they seem; they work to challenge and bolster the racial state; they are in some ways radical and in others extremely conservative. And this question of criticality has precisely to do with normativity: do genealogical practices, the conclusions they draw and the worldmaking they do, work to undo or to reinscribe oppressive patterns, habits, worldviews, available roles of and categories for historically marginalized groups of people? All three of these projects attempt to re-write the terms of America, such that the circumstances of African-Americans are configured as being integral instead of outside the dominant narrative; constitutive rather than an aberration. But they waver between trying to write that as a narrative of progress, in which we have left slavery behind and have ascended to a space of constitutive normativity; and trying to underline the fundamental and unending nature of slavery – a kind of rejoinder to uncritical narratives that not only attends to the subjective space of social death that it has yielded but the possibilities and necessities of invent ion that have flourished in its wake. What they have in common is that they present the necessity of grappling with the past instead of ignoring it, allowing African-Americans’ movements and reinscriptions of migration to trouble the waters of complacency, forging a broader awareness of the fraught position they have historically occupied. Each contains kernels of great possibility for an inclusive vision of the future as well as more or less significant red flags. Hartman’s vision, however, seems to espouse a particularly liberating articulation of freedom, because it does not try to deny or occlude the presence or significance of ongoing disparity and loss: while Gates’ and Haley’s subjects and implied audience have already succeeded, gained access to civil society, and have implicitly ratified the fundamental terms on which it is predicated, Hartman’s are still struggling to make something from nothing; they have an urgency in attending to disparities, and no investment in a status quo that excludes or violates their well-being. What she claims or advocates is not a victimized stance, but rather a staunch activist one that is inflected by a rigorous and unflinching structural analysis, and a sensitive and equally rigorous understanding of desire, yearning, and the possibilities for reinvention and reconstruction that emerge when faced with profound absence and loss.

====2nc top-level==== 

**We must decolonize our education or face genocide.**
**Ani** (BA degree at the University of Chicago, and holds MA and Ph.D. degrees in anthropology from the Graduate Faculty of the New School University) 19**94**
(Marimba, “Yurugu: An African-centered Critique of European Cultural Thought and Behavior,” Book, pg 1-2)
This study of Europe is an intentionally aggressive polemic. It is an assault upon the European paradigm; a repudiation of its essence. It is initiated with the intention of contributing to the process of demystification necessary for those of us who would liberate ourselves from European intellectual imperialism. Europe's political domination of Africa and much of the "non-European" world has been accompanied by a relentless cultural and psychological rape and by devastating economic exploitation. But what has compelled me to write this book is the conviction that beneath this deadly onslaught lies a stultifying intellectual mystification that prevents Europe's political victims from thinking in a manner that would lead to authentic self-determination. Intellectual decolonization is a prerequisite for the creation of successful political decolonization and cultural reconstruction strategies. Europe's political imperialistic success can be accredited not so much to superior military might, as to the weapon of culture: The former ensures more immediate control but requires continual physical force for the maintenance of power, while the latter succeeds In long-lasting dominance that enlists the cooperation of its victims (i.e., pacification of the will). The secret Europeans discovered early in their history is that culture carries rules for thinking, and that if you could impose your culture on your victims you could limit the creativity of their vision, destroying their ability to act with will and intent and in their own interest. The truth is that we are all "intellectuals," all potential visionaries. / This book discusses the evolution of that process of imposition, as well as the characteristics of cultural beings who find it necessary to impose their will on others. It is not a simple process to explain, since the tools we need in order to dissect it have been taken from us through colonial miseducation. It is necessary to begin, therefore, with a painful weaning from the very epistemological assumptions that strangle us. The weaning takes patience and commitment, but the liberation of our minds is well worth the struggle. / My chosen field is African-Centered cultural science — the reconstruction of a revolutionary African culture. I teach Pan-African studies. The experience convinces me more and more, however, that teaching Pan-African studies well means teaching European studies simultaneously. To be truly liberated, African people must come to know the nature of European thought and behavior in order to understand the effect that Europe has had on our ability to think victoriously. We must be able to separate our thought from European thought, so as to visualize a future that is not dominated by Europe. This is demanded by an African-centered view because we are Africans, and because the future towards which Europe leads us is genocidal.

====at: simmons / state inevitable==== 

**The state’s not inevitable – individual rejection of the state in this debate round solves – even if not, we have an ethical obligation to attempt the impossible – this evidence will smoke them. [read it all]**
Walter **Block**, Summer 20**05** (Harold E. Wirth Eminent Scholar Endowed Chair and professor of economics, College of Business Administration, Loyola University, New Orleans, “Governmental Inevitability – reply to Holcombe,” http://mises.org/journals/jls/19_3/19_3_4.pdf >:)
RANDY HOLCOMBE’S “GOVERNMENT: UNNECESSARY but Inevitable” (2004) is an interesting and challenging, but ultimately fallacious, essay on government. In his view, this institution is “unnecessary, but inevitable.” I heartily agree with the former contention, but adamantly reject the latter. Worse is the implication for him of the supposed inevitability of the state: Since it will come about in any case, we men of good will should strive to set one up ourselves in cases where this has not yet come about, so that our version of it may serve to stave off a later and more virulent strain of it. Holcombe (2004, p. 326) writes: “If people create their own government preemptively, they can design a government that may be less predatory than the one that outside aggressors otherwise would impose on them.” This is akin to the cowpox smallpox technique. Infect the patient with the former, which is a mild strain, so that his white blood cells can create antibodies to fight it off; then, when the stronger smallpox attacks, the defenses would already be set up and strengthened, able to fight off the disease. (thedorsetpage 2000). In order to test this hypothesis, let us apply it not to any one nation, but to the possibility of world government. Hans-Hermann Hoppe (2004) speaks of this institution as follows: Imagine a world government, democratically elected according to the principle of one-man-one-vote on a worldwide scale. What would the probable outcome of an election be? Most likely, we would get a Chinese-Indian coalition government. And what would this government most likely decide to do in order to satisfy its supporters and be reelected? The government would probably find that the so-called Western world had far too much wealth and the rest of the world, in particular China and India, had far too little, and hence, that a systematic wealth and income redistribution would be called for. According to Holcombe’s hypothesis, we should forthwith, without hesitation, immediately create a world government? Why? Because if we do not, people worse than ourselves will eventually do so, and then we will be forced to suffer under their rule. Strictly, speaking, of course, world government is unnecessary. Private defense agencies and/or individual nations are perfectly capable of providing all the defense services and “public goods” any of us require, or ever will require. But a world government is inevitable. That being the case, better that we install one of our own as soon as possible, than that they, the evil ones, do so. When put in these terms, the “logic” of the argument is plain to see. First of all, we have survived all these many years, nay, centuries, without the benefits of any world government. It is difficult to see that it is “inevitable.” Second, even if it is unavoidable, arguendo, we are still required, as moral agents, to oppose this evil institution to our utmost. After all, no man is perfect. We all have flaws. In this sense, imperfection, too, is “inevitable.” Does this mean we are somehow off the hook if we fail to ethically improve ourselves? Of course not. The only proper course of action is to strive mightily against the evil in our own hearts, no matter that we are predestined never to fully eradicate it. Holcombe is saying, in effect, “If rape is inevitable, relax and enjoy it.” I am saying, “Even if rape is inevitable, keep fighting against this injustice.” Then, too, “inevitability” springs only awkwardly from the pen of an economist such as Holcombe, for all such claims run head on into the primordial fact of free will.1 If people can make choices—and they can—then nothing concerning human institutions can be “inevitable.” To attempt to deny free will is, of necessity, to engage in it. When something cannot be denied apart from pain of self-contradiction, we can interpret it as necessarily occurring. Thus, government is not inevitable; only free will is. And, with the latter, the inevitable status of the state cannot logically be entertained, let alone insisted upon, as per Holcombe. On the contrary, whether the state remains with us will stem from decisions people make; they are just as free to keep a government in their repertoire as to reject it.

====at: cede the political==== 

**The demand for political coherence and reformism obliterates the position of the slave – their integrationist optimism cannot take into account the gratuitous violence directed towards Blacknesa**
**Hartman and Wilderson ‘3** [Saidiya, professor of English and comparative literature and women's and gender studies at Columbia University, Frank, Associate Professor of African American Studies, Drama at UC Irvine, “THE POSITION OF THE UNTHOUGHT”, Qui Parle, Vol. 13, No. 2 Spring/Summer 2003, JSTOR]
What I mean, is that so often in black scholarship, people consciously or unconsciously peel away from the strength and the terror of their evidence in order to propose some kind of coherent, hopeful solution to things. Your book, in moving through these scenes of subjection as they take place in slavery, refuses to do that. And just as importantly, it does not allow the reader to think that there was a radical enough break to reposition the black body after Jubilee.' That is a tremendous and courageous move. And I think what's important about it, is that it corroborates the experience of ordinary black people today, and of strange black people like you and me in the academy [laughter]. But there's something else that the book does, and I want to talk about this at the level of methodology and analysis. If we think about the registers of subjectivity as being preconscious interest, unconscious identity or identifications, and positionality, then a lot of the work in the social sciences organizes itself around precon-scious interest; it assumes a subject of consent, and as you have said, a subject of exploitation, which you reposition as the subject of accumulation.2 Now when this sort of social science engages the issue of positionality — if and when it does — it assumes that it can do so in an un-raced manner. That's the best of the work. The worst of the work is a kind of multiculturalism that assumes we all have analogous identities that can be put into a basket of stories, and then that basket of stories can lead to similar interests. For me, what you've done in this book is to split the hair here. In other words, this is not a book that celebrates an essential Afrocentrism that could be captured by the multicultural discourse. And yet it's not a book that remains on the surface of preconscious interest, which so much history and social science does. Instead, it demands a radical racialization of any analysis of positionality. So. Why don't we talk about that? Saidiya V Hartman — Well! That's a lot, and a number of things come to mind. I think for me the book is about the problem of crafting a narrative for the slave as subject, and in terms of positionality, asking, "Who does that narrative enable?" That's where the whole issue of empathic identification is central for me. Because it just seems that every attempt to employ the slave in a narrative ultimately resulted in his or her obliteration, regardless of whether it was a leftist narrative of political agency — the slave stepping into someone else's shoes and then becoming a political agent — or whether it was about being able to unveil the slave's humanity by actually finding oneself in that position. In many ways, what I was trying to do as a cultural historian was to narrate a certain impossibility, to illuminate those practices that speak to the limits of most available narratives to explain the position of the enslaved. On one hand, the slave is the foundation of the national order, and, on the other, the slave occupies the position of the unthought. So what does it mean to try to bring that position into view without making it a locus of positive value, or without trying to fill in the void? So much of our political vocabu-lary/imaginary/desires have been implicitly integrationist even when we imagine our claims are more radical. This goes to the second part of the book — that ultimately the metanarrative thrust is always towards an integration into the national project, and partic-ularly when that project is in crisis, black people are called upon to affirm it. So certainly it's about more than the desire for inclusion with-in the limited set of possibilities that the national project provides. What then does this language — the given language of freedom —enable? And once you realize its limits and begin to see its inex-orable investment in certain notions of the subject and subjection, then that language of freedom no longer becomes that which res-cues the slave from his or her former condition, but the site of the re-elaboration of that condition, rather than its transformation. F. W. — This is one of the reasons why your book has been called "pessimistic" by Anita Patterson.' But it's interesting that she does-n't say what I said when we first started talking, that it's enabling. I'm assuming that she's white — I don't know, but it certainly sounds like it. S.V.H. — But I think there's a certain integrationist rights agenda that subjects who are variously positioned on the color line can take up. And that project is something I consider obscene: the attempt to make the narrative of defeat into an opportunity for cel-ebration, the desire to look at the ravages and the brutality of the last few centuries, but to still find a way to feel good about our-selves. That's not my project at all, though I think it's actually the project of a number of people. Unfortunately, the kind of social revisionist history undertaken by many leftists in the 1970s, who were trying to locate the agency of dominated groups, resulted in celebratory narratives of the oppressed.4 Ultimately, it bled into this celebration, as if there was a space you could carve out of the ter-rorizing state apparatus in order to exist outside its clutches and forge some autonomy. My project is a different one. And in partic-ular, one of my hidden polemics in the book was an argument against the notion of hegemony, and how that notion has been taken up in the context of looking at the status of the slave. F.W. — That's very interesting, because it's something I've been thinking about also in respect to Gramsci. Because Anne Showstack Sassoon suggests that Gramsci breaks down hegemony into three categories: influence, leadership, and consent.' Maybe we could bring the discussion back to your text then, using the examples of Harriet Jacobs,6 a slave, and John Rankin,' a white anti-slavery Northerner, as ways in which to talk about this. Now, what's really interesting is that in your chapter "Seduction and the Ruses of Power," you not only explain how the positionality of black women and white women differs, but you also suggest how blackness disarticulates the notion of consent, if we are to think of that notion as universal. You write: "[B]eing forced to submit to the will of the master in all things defines the predicament of slavery" (S, 110). In other words, the female slave is a possessed, accumulated, and fungible object, which is to say that she is ontologically different than a white woman who may, as a house servant or indentured laborer, be a subordinated subject. You go on to say, "The opportunity for nonconsent [as regards, in this case, sex] is required to establish consent, for consent is meaningless if refusal is not an option. . . . Consent is unseemly in a context in which the very notion of subjectivity is predicated upon the negation of will" (S, 111).

**Boggs flows neg y’all**
**Boggs 97**
“The Great Retreat: Decline of the Public Sphere in Late Twentieth-Century America” Carl Boggs, Professor of Social Sciences at National University in Los Angeles, Adjunct Professor at Antioch University in Los Angeles, “Theory and Society,” Vol. 26, No. 6 (Dec., 1997), pp. 741-780 <http://www.jstor.org/stable/657934>//DoeS
At the same time, any process of repoliticization will have to be carried out in a context where the whole field of political activity has been fundamentally altered. One of the major effects of corporate colonization is what Ulrich Beck refers to as the ``systemic transformation of the political'' ^ the considerable loss of power in the centralized political system itself, severely reducing its capacity to plan, regulate, and intervene in effective ways. As Beck observes: ``The concepts, foundations, and instruments of politics (and non-politics) are becoming unclear, open and in need of a historically new determination.'' 76 Where the Hobbesian ``solution'' to fragmentation or extreme localism does not or cannot work owing to historical and cultural traditions, the push toward decentralization may be irreversible. Many of the conventional functions of government will be more difficult to perform according to a model where strong leaders exercise more or less unchallenged authority. Hence a truly revitalized politics will have to be more open and collective, more decentralized, and more infused with civic virtues as the conditions favoring a single center of politics erode.

===neolib advantage=== 
====1nc neolib f/l==== 

**Linking race and class in the context of Katrina allows for justification of racial stratification through class dynamics, without recognition of race as the underlying issue**
Duke W. **Austin and** Michelle **Miles**, January 1st, 20**07** (University of Colorado at Boulder, “Crisis in Black and White: Katrina, Rita, and the Construction of Reality,” http://www.yale.edu/sociology/visitors/pages/duke/AustinMiles-Crisis-in-Black-and-White-FINAL >:)
White respondents reported having negative experiences with black evacuees following the hurricanes, but they reversed their position when discussing the rescue, relief, and recovery efforts. When asked if race played an issue, this respondent had the following to say. 33-year-old white female: Not at all. Do you think these disasters say anything about race in the U.S.? No, cause, no. I don’t look at what color your skin is. I cut myself, you cut yourself; we all bleed the same color. Other white respondents had similar things to say. The following respondent does not think that race had anything to do with the government’s response to the hurricanes. 46-year-old white male: Do you think the response for New Orleans would have been different if it were a predominantly white city? I don’t know. That’s a tough question. It coulda been. I don’t really look at it as race, cause I think . . . Course, you know, they’re more poor, and not as much possessions as the others, but I don’t look at it as a racial thing. Austin and Miles 165 While denying that race had anything to do with response efforts, the respondent links race to class. By linking race and class, many people are able to justify racial stratification through class dynamics. Eduardo Bonilla-Silva, a critical race theorist, identifies this type of justification as part of a new type of racism: colorblind racism. “[Color-blind racism] aids in the maintenance of white privilege without fanfare, without naming those who it subjects and those who it rewards” (Bonilla-Silva 2004). In this case, the respondent is able to note that a racial difference existed without naming race as a cause of the difference. The following respondent echoes the white reality that race was not a factor in the aftermath of the hurricanes. 67-year-old white female: Race did not matter. The first water breach was not a levee. The water breached at a ship canal, not a levee in the ninth ward. No, it was definitely not race. In fact, with only one exception, white respondents believed that race had nothing to do with the failures of the rescue, recovery, and relief efforts. The lone white dissenter is married to a black woman.

===race advantage=== 
====1nc race f/l==== 

**Government policy focused education hides racism under cultural differences and only establishes a new racial balance, at best.**
Tansy **Woan**, 20**11**, Master of Arts in Philosophy, Politics, and Law in the Graduate School of Binghamton University, “THE VALUE OF RESISTANCE IN A PERMANENTLY WHITE, CIVIL SOCIETY,” http://gradworks.umi.com/14/96/1496586.html, p. 15-19
Notable achievements during the Civil Rights Movement have served as a double-edged sword. While the reformist strategies utilized during that period helped make certain advances possible, it also drove other more overt expressions of racism underground. These more invisible instantiations of racial injustice are far more difficult to identify than its previously more explicit forms. Praising these victories risks giving off the illusion that the fight is over and that racism is a description of the past. / For example, the ratification of the Fifteen Amendment gave off the illusion that all citizens thereafter had equal access to the right to vote. Those who supported its ratification now felt entitled to the moral credentials necessary to legitimize their ability to express racially prejudiced attitudes.21 For example, voter turnout today remains relatively low for Asian-Americans, and many blame this on cultural differences between Asians and Americans.22 Asian-Americans are labeled as apathetic in the political community and they themselves have been attributed the blame for relatively low representation of Asian-Americans in the government today.23 This however, ignores the way in which other more invisible practices serve to obstruct Asian-Americans from being able to exercise their right to vote. / Research by the United States Election Assistance Commission by the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University, for example, indicates that restrictive voter identification requirements have effectively served to disenfranchise Asian Pacific Islanders (APIs) from voting.24 In the 2004 election, researchers found APIs in states where voters were required to present proper identification at the polls were 8.5% less likely to vote.25 This study confirmed that voter ID requirements prevented a large number of APIs from voting.26 / Voter suppression tactics also play a large role in the disenfranchisement of APIs. According to a Voter Intimidation and Vote Suppression briefing paper by Demos, a national public policy center, an estimated 50 Asian Americans were selectively challenged at the polls in Alabama during August of 2004, as being ineligible to vote due to insufficient English-speaking skills.27 Many states have allowed this selective challenging of voters to take place at the polls, resulting in a feeling of fear, intimidation, and embarrassment among APIs, driving them away from the polls. / The danger in treasuring monumental victories such as the ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment becomes apparent when people interpret this ratification as an indication that voting discrimination is no longer a problem, and that if the voter turnout of Asian-Americans is consistently low, it must be because they are politically apathetic or disinterested in American ideals. Because they originally supported the ratification of the amendment, whites can now feel as if they have the moral credentials to make conclusions such as the cultural differences rationale. The same can be seen after courts ordered the desegregation of public schools and after affirmative action programs became more widespread. People began assuming African-Americans now had an equal opportunity for education and that if they did not succeed, it must be a reflection of their intelligence or work-ethic, failing to see the ways the problem has not been solved, but rather disguised itself in other costumes, such as tracking programs in schools or teachers who view their presence as merely "affirmative action babies" and expect them to fail. / One might ask, then, why can we not change the racial state one policy at a time? Perhaps one could first work to gain the right to vote, and then move on to combat discriminatory identification requirements and political scare tactics. It would not seem entirely implausible to assume that the success of individual piecemeal reforms within the government could eventually result in a transformation of the institution itself. However, simply eliminating discriminatory policies is insufficient for an overhaul of a racial institution. / Understanding the motivating reasons for the elimination of individual racist policies is a critical factor in determining the success of a movement. While one justification for passing the Fifteenth Amendment might consist of arguments in favor of equality and exposing racial injustice, another justification might involve maintaining order and minimizing disruption, which is important to the federal government and its ability to run smoothly. Thus, the government often seeks out ways to normalize society through eliminating disruptions to preserve order. When those being denied certain rights grow significantly discontent, they rebel and become disruptions to the functioning of white, civil society. This can take the form of civil disobedience, such as protests, peaceful demonstrations, petitions, letters to the government, etc., or more revolutionary measures, such as damaging government offices or violently harassing officials to acknowledge the injustices and change policy. / All of these measures, however peaceful or violent, disrupt society. A town cannot run smoothly if protesters are filling up the streets or blocking frequently-used road paths, and most certainly cannot run smoothly if town halls are being lit on fire. Thus, in order to return to the desired homeostasis, those in power may often compromise and offer to rectify the situation at hand by granting rights to individuals through changes in legislation in order to appease them and "eliminate" the disruption (the protests, demonstrations, etc.). The lack of effort made towards protecting these rights bolsters Bell's argument that these reforms serve more of a symbolic value rather than functional. If still operating under the racial state, these piecemeal reforms will fail to solve the original racial injustices in the long term, as they will only succeed in establishing a new unstable equilibrium, only to be followed with the replication of new racial problems.28 These new problems will once again create resentment, generate protest, and the cycle will begin to replicate itself, ensuring the permanence of racism. Omi and Winant term this cycle of continuous disruption and restoration of order as the trajectory of racial politics.29 This trajectory supports the treatment of racism as inevitable since even if the racial state mitigates racial disruption over a particular policy and "restores order," another policy based off a new definition of race will emerge triggering another racial disruption, continuing this cycle of racial politics.

**Faith in American government makes White Supremacy impossible to overcome.**
Tansy **Woan**, 20**11**, Master of Arts in Philosophy, Politics, and Law in the Graduate School of Binghamton University, “THE VALUE OF RESISTANCE IN A PERMANENTLY WHITE, CIVIL SOCIETY,” http://gradworks.umi.com/14/96/1496586.html, p. 1-3
The effects of our political participation are profound. We have come a way over the last few centuries. The election of a nonwhite President says a great deal of what we have accomplished. And yet, what exactly is it that these engagements with the political process have helped us to accomplish? / A great barrier to racial equality has been this faith in the ability of our American government to effect real change. The government's treatment of race has often deceivingly convinced us that we have achieved what has been promised. In 1954, the United States Supreme Court overruled the separate but equal doctrine of racial segregation as unconstitutional.2 Many American civil rights activists prematurely celebrated what was thought to be the end of segregation. However, due to the passive, indirect nature of racism, segregation persisted through loopholes provided by the American legal system. / Twenty years after the Brown v. Board of Education decision, in spite of the clearly segregated result of Detroit public school busing systems. Milliken v. Bradley ruled that there was "no showing of significant violation" because the racism that arose in the Milliken decision was passive and indirect.3 It was ruled that the disparate impact shown through evidence submitted in court could not prove acmal intent of racial discrimination, and therefore could not warrant judicial remedy. Moreover, the Supreme Court decision in Brown could do little to prevent white flight from rendering desegregation practicably impossible, or the in-classroom segregation that results when special education placement programs result in classrooms that are predominantly African-American and gifted student programs result in classrooms that are predominantly white. The highest law in the land proved incapable of prohibiting these less explicitly but equally insidious instances of racial segregation. / This increasing invisibility of whiteness that has permeated society has blinded many Americans from recognizing racial injustices today. Derrick Bell warns that to interpret civil rights "victories" (such as the Brown decision) as signals that we have achieved what we wanted and that our work is now done runs the risk of masking the way in which many treasure these events merely as symbols to alleviate white guilt.4 For example, one might find value in them not based on material gains, but because of the ability they have to make one feel as if one is no longer a guilty participant of white supremacy and giving one the moral credentials to feel justified in making other racially prejudiced statements.5 / Recognizing the limits of traditional forms of political participation (such as civil protests, writing letters to local officials, and voting on Election Day) is a prerequisite for any activist seeking to eliminate racial injustice. Our faith in the American legal system has blinded us to its shortcomings and fooled us into believing that working with the government is the best, and only, venue for change.

====2nc state bad xt==== 

**Maintaining White Supremacy is the everyday job of American government.**
Tansy **Woan**, 20**11**, Master of Arts in Philosophy, Politics, and Law in the Graduate School of Binghamton University, “THE VALUE OF RESISTANCE IN A PERMANENTLY WHITE, CIVIL SOCIETY,” http://gradworks.umi.com/14/96/1496586.html, p. 5
My search for an answer To These questions has led me to my proposal that political participation in the government cannot be the sole method of resistance. Such participation would not disrupt white supremacy, but further legitimate it. In other words, the political system exemplifies white supremacist characteristics. For example, it is not difficult to see how its sanctioning of the intentional policing of predominantly black neighborhoods results in a disproportionate number of blacks imprisoned, or how its restrictions on immigration produce a disparate impact on those not of the Caucasian race. Policies such as these are a part of the everyday functioning of the American government. They help to maintain a white majority within the government, and help prevent the uprising of minority races through incarceration and legal exclusion. Thus, to participate in such a system would be to assume the system has the authority to order society through it’s passage of laws and judicial decisions. I hope to show how this legitimation reproduces more of the same injustices, only in more cleverly disguised ways.

==airport nomadz neg== 
===whiteness=== 
====1nc whiteness==== 

**You know something’s up when the 1AC discusses airport security policy for 8 minutes without once mentioning the racial profiling of minority passengers which the federal government continues to endorse through “behavioral detection” programs and the like. Their silence on the issue of race is not a neutral stance – it is a strategic silencing that denies white privilege and naturalizes white supremacy**
Carrie **Crenshaw,** Assistant Professor in the Department of Speech Communication, The University of Alabama, Summer 19**97**, “Resisting whiteness' rhetorical silence,” Western Journal of Communication 61.3, ebsco
In academic and political discourse, it is also rare for white people to explicitly reference their whiteness. The strictures of the "approved identity" in academic writing often prevent us from revealing our personal social locations and experiences (Blair, Brown and Baxter 402). Public political figures likewise avoid mentioning whiteness in their discourse (Nakayama and Krizek 297) even though the color of American politics is implicit in current debates about welfare, affirmative action, crime, and a host of other issues. Moreover, such discourse tends to ignore the ways in which race, gender, and class intersect with each other to perpetuate oppressive human hierarchies (Crenshaw, "Beyond"; Lorde). / Because discursive constructions of whiteness are typically unmarked and unnamed in personal, academic, and public discourse, they present a constellation of challenges for rhetorical scholars who are interested in the ideological role of whiteness in intersecting discourses about race, gender, and class. Previous rhetorical scholarship has focused on racist public discourse (e.g., Wander, "Salvation"; Wander, "The Savage"; Himelstein; Logue; Logue and Garner; Trank), but Nakayama and Krizek have recently taken our thinking a step further by mapping the terrain of whiteness. In a provocative study which names whiteness as a strategic rhetoric, they ethnographically "map" the "everyday" strategies of the spoken rhetoric of whiteness from a cultural studies perspective. They are "interested in ... the constructed space of whiteness, not the ways that it influences the margins" and "do[es] not address racism or racist ideology, although [they acknowledge that] these are closely aligned to many of the ways that whiteness is constructed" (306n). Their conclusion invites us to move beyond their initial topological project to investigate how the rhetoric of whiteness functions in the context of other social relations, particularly gender (303-305). In this essay, I accept their invitation and join the ongoing interdisciplinary conversation about whiteness (e.g., Allen; Dutcher; Dyer; Feagin and Vera; Frankenberg; Frye; Harris; hooks, Black; Mcintosh; Nakayama and Krizek; Roediger). Because whiteness and its intersections with gender and class are steeped in silence (hooks, Black; Mcintosh; Nakayama and Krizek), this essay argues that rhetoricians must do the critical ideological work necessary to make whiteness visible and overturn its silences for the purpose of resisting racism. / To do this, scholars must locate interactions that implicate unspoken issues of race, discursive spaces where the power of whiteness is invoked but its explicit terminology is not, and investigate how these racialized constructions intersect with gender and class. One such interaction was the debate between Carolyn Moseley Braun (D-IL) and Jesse Helms (R-NC) over the U.S. Senate's decision whether to grant a fourteen-year extension of the design patent for the United Daughters of the Confederacy (UDC) insignia. Because the UDC insignia contains a representation of the Confederate flag, the debate centered on whether a Senate approval of the patent would commend a charitable patriotic organization or commemorate an historical symbol of racism. Accounts of this debate were widely disseminated in the national news media and described Moseley Braun's argument as a dramatic history-making challenge to racism in the U.S. Senate (e.g., Clymer; Lee; McGrory). "For once Senators changed their minds. Things that are usually decided in the cloakroom, were settled on the floor in plain sight" (McGrory A2). Helms spoke first and Moseley Braun responded. After Helms' second speech, the motion to table the amendment was rejected 52 to 48. However, Moseley Braun was ultimately victorious; after her final speech, the patent extension was denied on a 75 to 25 vote. / This debate is a uniquely interesting rhetorical artifact because it was a direct and public clash of arguments about race in political discourse. It constitutes an important example of how two public political actors' discourse about race and how the personal dimensions of race, gender, and class entered into their public argument. In the next section, I argue that ideological rhetorical criticism is an appropriate avenue for analyzing interactions like this one. / Ideological Rhetorical Criticism / There is nothing essential, "natural," or biological about whiteness. Because the overwhelming unity of our genetic makeup swamps any human differences that have historically been attributed to race (Appiah 21; Shipman 269), race itself has been called a biological fiction (Gates 4). It is the historically located rhetorical meaning of whiteness that assigns it social worth (Nakayama and Krizek 292). / Whiteness functions ideologically when people employ it, consciously or unconsciously, as a framework to categorize people and understand their social locations. Within this framework, whiteness as a social position has value and has been treated legally as property (Bell; Crenshaw "Race"; Feagin and Vera; Harris). The term "white privilege" denotes a host of material advantages white people enjoy as a result of being socially and rhetorically located as a white person (Crenshaw, "Race"; Mcintosh; Wellman). Even though many white people sense that privilege accompanies whiteness (Feagin and Vera), they do not overtly acknowledge their white privilege because they think of themselves as average, morally neutral non-racists. They do not see racism as an ideology that protects the interests of all white people; rather, they envision racism in the form of white hooded Klansmen engaged in acts of racial hatred (Mcintosh 34; Ezekiel 1). Because this ideology can be produced and reproduced through spoken discourse (van Dijk; Goldberg), whiteness and its privilege have both ideological and rhetorical dimensions. / Ideological rhetorical criticism reveals the vested interests protected by a particular rhetorical framework for understanding social order. It assists the search for alternatives to oppression and enables us to engage in right action for good reasons (Wander, "The Ideological" 2, 18). While cultural and ethnographic approaches that name the complexities of our racialized social locations make the rhetoric of whiteness visible and displace its centrality (Nakayama and Krizek), an ideological approach helps to uncover the alliance between the submerged or silent rhetoric of whiteness and white material privilege. Ideological rhetorical criticism reveals how the public political rhetoric of whiteness relies upon a silent denial of white privilege to rationalize judicial, legislative, and executive decisions that protect the material interests of white people at the expense of people of color.[ 3] Beyond the realm of "everyday" discourse, public political actors often engage a submerged or silent rhetoric of whiteness to protect white privilege, and their arguments are authorized by the powerful institutions from which they speak. Those authorized arguments in turn sanction the rhetorical frameworks through which white individuals make sense of and justify their privileged social status (van Dijk; Wellman). / Stuart Hall's work is useful for grasping the rhetorical nature of ideology in general and racist ideologies in specific. He defines ideology as "those images, concepts and premises which provide the frameworks through which we represent, interpret, understand and 'make sense' of some aspect of social existence" ("The Whites" 18). Ideological struggles are struggles over meaning. Meaning is a social production, a practice of making the world mean something, and this meaning is produced through language. Language is not a synonym for ideology because the same terms can be used in very different ideological discourses. However, language is the principle medium of ideologies, and ideologies are sets or chains of meaning located in language ("The Rediscovery" 67, 81; "The Whites" 18). / These chains of meaning are not the products of individual intention even though they are statements made by individuals. Instead, intentions are formed within pre-existing ideologies because individuals are born into them. Ideologies live within what we take-for-granted. They exist in our assumptions and descriptive statements about how the world is. "Ideologies tend to disappear from view into the taken-for-granted 'naturalised' world of common sense. Since (like gender) race appears to be 'given' by Nature, racism is one of the most profoundly 'naturalised' of existing ideologies" (Hall, "The Whites" 19). / To understand how racist ideologies operate, Hall draws upon the work of Antonio Gramsci. While Gramsci did not explicitly theorize about race, he did investigate the ideological and cultural implications of region and nation. Hall embraces Gramsci's argument that ideologies function hegemonically to preserve powerful interests. That is to say, ideologies are taken-for-granted frameworks that naturalize our descriptions of the way the world is, including its current power structures. This power is not achieved solely by coercive might; it also operates through the consent of those who are subjugated. Hegemony is the production of consent that determines what is taken-for-granted. So, our taken-for-granted, naturalized assumptions of what makes common sense produce and reinforce our consent to the current social order and its power structures. The advantage of Gramsci's position is that it makes room for an oppositional consciousness because it recognizes that hegemony is historically contingent. Because hegemony is never stable and is always an ongoing and fluid process of gaining consent, social transformation through the critical examination of current relations of power is possible. / Following Gramsci, Hall also believes that it is essential to analyze the historical specificity of racist ideologies in a non-reductive manner. He rejects the gross form of economism in which everything is seen to be determined by class structures, and instead he highlights the need to understand and conceptualize other oppressive forms of social differentiation including culture, region, nationality, and ethnicity. Doing so enables a productive reconceptualization of the "class subject." The class subject is not homogenous; there is never simple unity among people said to be of the same "class." Rather, hegemony is a dynamic process of the production of consent within and between different sectors and segments within classes. Thus, Gramsci's work can help us to understand how race and class intersect. We need not accept the false choice between class based explanations and race based explanations. In addition, Hall argues that Gramsci's notion of hegemony helps us to understand one of the most common, least explained features of 'racism': the 'subjection' of the victims of racism to the mystifications of the very racist ideologies which imprison and define them. He reveals how different, often contradictory elements can be woven into and integrated within different ideological discourses; but also, the nature and value of ideological struggle which seeks to transform popular ideas and the 'common sense' of the masses. All of this has the most profound importance for the analysis of racist ideologies and for the centrality, within that, of ideological struggle. ("Gramsci's" 440) / A critical ideological approach to racialized discourse reveals the ongoing struggle over the meaning of race. It makes room for oppositional consciousness by helping us to "see" the meaning of racialized constructions and the vested interests they protect so that we can contest them. In addition, as the following analysis of the Braun-Helms debate illustrates, it enables our understanding of the intersections among racialized, gendered, and class discourses.

**A closer inspection reveals the paradox of so-called “airport security” programs – officers consistently target minorities even though it has been proven to increase the risk of a breach in security. Their analysis of the problem is wrong. The regime of “absolute visibility” in airports does not exist due to a drive for security; it is due to a deep-seated racist ideology that pushes minorities to the outside of society.**
**ETL**, August 12th, 20**12** (End the Lie, a constantly updated alternative news compendium for geopolitics, groundbreaking analysis and the latest news that really matters, “US airport security racially profiled minorities,” http://beforeitsnews.com/alternative/2012/08/us-airport-security-racially-profiled-minorities-2451180.html >:)
As part of a “behavioral detection” program to spot potential terrorists, federal airport security officers have been racially profiling minority passengers, including Middle Easterners, blacks and Hispanics. Officers working for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) at Logan International Airport in Boston have been questioning “suspicious” looking minorities, including Hispanics flying to Miami or blacks with backwards baseball caps, the New York Times reported. The racial profiling is linked to TSA’s pilot behavior detection program, which subjects passengers at pilot checkpoints to a “casual greeting” conversation with a Behavior Detection Officer (BDO) as they go through identity verification. If based on the conversation the BDO finds the passenger “suspicious,” he or she will undergo further screening. The officers look for inconsistencies in answers and other signs of strange behavior, like avoiding eye contact, sweating or fidgeting. But several BDO officers estimate that 80 percent of passengers searched are minorities. “They just pull aside anyone who they don’t like the way they look – if they are black and have expensive clothes or jewelry, or if they are Hispanic,” a white BDO officer told the Times. The program requires officers to profile a large number of people every day. To meet the demand, officers more frequently targeted minorities in the belief that those stops were more likely to yield drugs, arrest warrants or immigration problems. “The behavior detection program is no longer a behavior-based program, but it is a racial profiling program,” an officer wrote in an anonymous complaint. Thirty-two officers have submitted written complaints to the TSA over the targeting of minorities by their co-workers. Victims of racial profiling also flooded TSA with complaints. African-American psychologist and educational consultant Kenneth Boatner, 68, said he was humiliated when he was detained for nearly 30 minutes as agents looked through his personal belongings – including his checkbook, cell phone and clinical notes. But although nearly two dozen officers have been found to consistently target minorities, one officer said this method “takes officers away from the real threat, and we could miss a terrorist we are looking for.” And to this day, there is no scientific basis proving that behavioral detection is an effective way to find terrorists. The Government Accountability Office says the method allows officers to detect simple emotions like happiness and sadness, but has not been proven to determine “when individuals hold terrorist intent and beliefs,” according to an office report. “There is no place for racial profiling in any security program,” said TSA Executive Director David Mackey. “It is illegal, and it is not effective.”

**Genealogy doesn’t do anything to relieve racialized suffering and only makes things worse by re-centering power structures and abstracting racialized suffering, making it inevitable. We don’t have time for you to get your shit together – only a demand for the undoing of whiteness can solve.**
George **Yancy,** 20**08**, Associate Professor of Philosophy, Duquesne University, Black bodies, white gazes: the continuing significance of race, p. 299
Although there are many while antiracists who do fight and will continue to fight against the operations of white power, and while it is true that the regulatory power of whiteness will invariably attempt to undermine such efforts, it is important that white antiracists realize how much is at stake. While antiracist whites take time to get their shit together, a luxury that is a species of privilege, Black bodies and bodies of color continue to suffer, their bodies cry out for the political and existential urgency for the immediate undoing of the oppressive operations of whiteness. Here, the very notion of the temporal gets racialized. My point here is that even as whites take the time to theorize the complexity of whiteness, revealing its various modes of resistance to radical transformation, Black bodies continue to endure tremendous pain and suffering. Doing theory in the service of undoing whiteness comes with its own snares and seductions, its own comfort zones, and reinscription of distances. Whites who deploy theory in the service of fighting against white racism must caution against the seduction of white narcissism, the recentering of whiteness, even if it is the object of critical reflection, and, hence, the process of sequestration from the real world of weeping, suffering, and traumatized Black bodies impacted by the operations of white power. As antiracist whites continue to make mistakes and continue to falter in the face of institutional interpellation and habituated racist reflexes, tomorrow, a Black body will be murdered as it innocently reaches for its wallet. The sheer weight of this reality mocks the patience of theory.

**Let’s be real here, their “revolutionary politics” was invented by two rich white guys in France – postmodernism is a product of Western metaphysics, which means their discourse is inexorably tied to the power structures they criticize**
Will **Brooker**, 19**99** (“Eurocentrism,” http://faculty.washington.edu/cbehler/glossary/eurocent.html >:)
Eurocentrism. A term describing the way a particular cultural model, 'centred' upon European intellectual traditions and socio-political systems, has been generalized so as to apply to the world at large. The bias in this geocultural and largely, white, male perspective upon human history and world affairs has been especially exposed in postcolonial studies. Other contemporary critical theories have contributed to this decentring critique, but have not themselves been exempt from perpetuating some aspect of euro- or ethnocentrism. Thus Anglo-American and French feminism of the 1970s and 1980s, while they significantly diverged on other topics, consistently ignored the conditions and claims of African-American women and Third World women of colour. Deconstruction and postmodern theory also, while profoundly critical of the assumptions of Western philosophy and of modernity, remain in many ways the product of Western cultures and sensibilities. It might be said that this is true also of Western postcolonial theory. Homi Bhabha responds directly to the charge 'that the place of the academic critic is inevitably within the Eurocentric archives of an imperialist or neo-colonial West' (1994: 19). He proposes theorizing the concepts of negotiation and cultural difference as a way of moving beyond the divisive polarities of theory and activism, centre and periphery, self and other on which Eurocentricism is founded. [from Brooker, 1999]

**Their romanticization of mobility inexorably ties them to the power structures of Whiteness. Not only is the concept of ‘mobility’ rooted in Euro-American Enlightenment thought, but their discourse manifests itself in the ‘cosmic view’ – a violent frontier mindset which motivates Western imperialism and turns the whole world into a potential ‘site of battle.’**
Caren **Kaplan,** January 9th, 20**04** (cultural studies @ University of California at Davis, “Mobility and War: The Cosmic View of ‘Air Power’,” word doc >:)
So I want to talk about war and the discourses of space and time that are at work in the current conflicts. Given the event we are all attending, I would like to focus specifically on war and mobility. Here the question of what might be new or an alternative in relation to what might be the same or unchanged throughout modernity comes right to the fore. Because mobility is, of course, at the heart of modern warfare. If mobility is one of the markers of the modern--and it must be because we cannot understand the dictionary definition of mobility as freedom of movement without understanding the history of the rise of the notion of “freedom” as liberty to move as deeply grounded in Euro-American Enlightenment thought and political practice--then the mobile war and the war for mobility is the war of our generation and of our time. Thus, there are two aspects of war and mobility that I want to address today--the mobility of war as an articulation of the Enlightenment notion of free subjects and the mobility of war as an articulation of military strategy and the contest of technologies, old and new. They go together, of course. But pulling these strands apart a bit can give us some new insights. I am not yet convinced that mobility offers much in the way of alternatives--but we can come back to that in discussion and I look forward to hearing your views, particularly from the vantage point of the UK. To begin, then, I want to look back to the 2nd World War but I do not want to stop there. Because the discourse of the 2nd World War is always already in dialogue with the world war that preceded it and with other armed conflicts from which it can be differentiated or to which it can be linked. And it can only be read through the lens of the present. [IMAGE 1] For example, on the day I was reading Alexander de Seversky’s 1942 appeal for aerial defense strategies to protect the United States from German and Japanese attack, my Yahoo homepage was offering me a news story about possible infiltration of Air France flight crews by Al Queda with the intent to destroy targets in the United States once again. As I am writing this paper, the entire US is subject to an “orange” alert--one step below the greatest level of danger, signalled by the color “red.” We go about our business of observing our holidays with an underlying sense of apprehension. Where I live, even the most cynical person has to think twice about the necessity of crossing the Golden Gate Bridge since the media continues to identify it as a prime target of unspecified “terrorists.” Never mind logic. We are living in a time of profoundly heightened emotions mixed with inadequate education and information. As a consequence, binary views become more common and more urgently “remembered” as timeless and meaningful. People who never thought about Iraq and who cannot locate it on a map now think of themselves as always and forever opposed to the nation and its tyrannical regime. Such thinking cannot accommodate any complexities (such as the long-standing US government support for Saddam Hussein across several presidential administrations and not to mention support for the Taliban, for the mujihadeen, and for any number of vicious and despicable rulers, governments, and thugs of all kinds who, once the political winds blow differently, no longer count as favored “friends” but serve as blood enemies). Perhaps most problematic for people in the US is the tight fit between nation and religion. Thus, the US is always already a symbol of religious tolerance and secular governmentality yet Christianity is the official and dominant expression of a religiosity that is articulated as organic to US national identity. Under this bizarre mindset of official secular tolerance combined with intense Christian dominance in public and governmental discourse, Islam is dealt with as an oppositional construct rather than a variant of what we already experience in the US and other Western countries (Moallem 1999). Thus, countries with Islamic majorities are viewed as anti-secular and anti-tolerant (despite varied histories in this regard in different periods). Under this ideological regime, Islamicism becomes viewed as a nationalist enterprise that operates the same way in each country in which it is the dominant religion rather than understood as a profoundly transnational network that is articulated differently across cultures, classes, genders, nations, etc. The disastrous consequences of this misreading are unfolding before our eyes in the wars of our generation. I am visiting you from a nation that is trying as hard as it can to forget that anything bad has or can happen; a nation that is bringing home soldiers from Iraq who have the largest numbers of amputations and severe burns seen since the old days of the war in Indochina; a nation whose media is unable apparently to follow war on two fronts and thus almost never focuses on Afghanistan; a nation in the midst of some kind of economic free fall; a nation that enacts racialized profiling in more and more venues; a nation whose historic racist paranoia about foreigners and leaky borders has now reached an apotheosis in the post 9-11 moment. Nothing seems good anymore. Maybe technology can help. The newer technologies of surveillance and tracking are a boon for the immigration and transport arms of the government. We hear a fair amount about scanning eyeballs, fingers, and other parts of the body. We hear about cross-referencing of data (we do not hear much about the effect of downsizing post WWII area studies and the paucity of language and culture experts who can decipher the difference between one “Ahmed” and another --right after 9-11, people were thrown into jail without benefit of a lawyer or any other means of defense under war powers acts simply because someone who knew nothing about their language or culture of origin misunderstood the spelling of their name--these kinds of inanities could, perhaps, be better addressed through spanking new forms of information science but let’s face it: if the people using this fancy stuff have no education, there isn’t much hope for the technologies in situ). We hear about global positioning system applications for “keeping track” of suspects. We hear about the success of new technologies in armaments and defense--the precision and accuracy of bombs and missiles, the tremendous destructive capacities of these bombs and missiles (ie. the “bunker busters”). With each point I make here I could digress with a long laundry list of what we do not hear as much about--the things that don’t work as well as advertised, the things that cannot work in certain situations, the lack of education and ability to use technological tools intelligently in any widespread way, etc.). I could also talk about the interesting role of technology in the emerging peace and anti-globalization movements or the way in which the internet interpellated subjects in Iraq and many other locations during the US invasion. My point here is that in the US, a nation that has invaded several other countries and killed countless civilians as well as official combatants within the last two years alone, we often look to technology as a sign of hope, as a signal that we can prevail, and especially as a marker of our ability to defend ourselves from the horror of war’s immediate violence and to keep anything unspeakable and unimaginable at bay. The discourses of new technologies do this kind of work in the present moment. They are almost like paid advertisements for US nationalism and militarism. But on September 11, 2001, something went wrong with this belief system. The United States was revealed to be exceedingly vulnerable in specific kinds of ways. It is hard to convey how shattering of national identity these attacks were and how fragile is the mending of national psyche in the aftermath. Hence the discourse “everything changed”--a classic trope of modern rupture. But those of us old enough to have lived through WWII (or those of us old enough to have parents who lived through WWII) were reminded immediately of the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941--a date that President Roosevelt cemented in the public mind as “a day that will live in infamy.” Growing up in the 1950s and ‘60s, I learned about Pearl Harbor as the quintessential “sneak attack”--an action somehow apart from the “normal” conduct of war that signalled the almost inhumanly cruel “nature” of Japan. It’s a pretty short leap from that view to a form of virulent racism directed against Japanese people collectively and individually. And that dehumanization (with its accompanying incarceration of legal Japanese immigrants and US citizens of Japanese descent) itself cannot be separated from the violent revenge of Hiroshima and Nagasaki--no matter how often we are told it was more humane to drop an atomic bomb than prolong a war against an enemy who violated the values of civilization, it is tough to rationalize. But the threat was believed to be overwhelmingly great. It was the 1942 equivalent of “code orange.” [IMAGE 2] Here is an example of this discourse of threatened security --it’s a passage from Victory Through Air Power, a book published by Simon & Schuster in 1942 about a year after the attack on Pearl Harbor: From every point of the compass--across the two oceans and across the two Poles--giant bombers, each protected by its convoy of deadly fighter planes, converge upon the United States of America. There are thousands of these dreadnaughts of the skies. Each of them carries at least fifty tons of streamlined explosives and a hailstorm of light incendiary bombs. Wave after wave they come--openly, in broad daylight, magnificently armored and armed, surrounded by protective aircraft and equipped to fight their way through to their appointed targets. Aerial armadas now battle boldly and fiercely, just as great naval armadas used to do in the past, only with a destructive fury infinitely more terrifying. With the precision of perfect planning, the invading aerial giants strike at the nerve centers and jugular veins of a great nation. Unerringly, they pick their objectives: industrial centers and sources of power, government seats and fuel concentrations . . . The havoc they wreak is beyond description. New York, Detroit, Chicago, and San Francisco are reduced to rubble heaps in the first twenty four hours. Washington is wiped out before the government has a chance to rescue its most treasured records. A dozen crucial power plants . . . are wrecked, crippling a great section of American industrial life at a single blow. A thousand tons of explosives deposited expertly on a few great railroad depots like those at Chicago dislocate the country’s transportation system. . . (de Seversky 1942, 7-8) Thus does Alexander P. de Seversky, a Russian-born, commissioned major in the US Army Air Corps, describe the beginning of the end of the world--or, at least, the vanquishment of the United States of America. As a trope of national annihilation, this depiction of aerial attack is resonant with modern notions of enemies of the state. An overarching threat that can come from any and every direction will zero in on specific, fixed targets and, having made their coordinated attack without sufficient defense, conquer the subject of the attack. That the attack would come from the air was a key part of argument for the formation of a comprehensive aerial defense strategy. By 1942, the Nazi Blitzkrieg and the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor had signalled that air power was a force with which to contend. If we had more time today, we could explore the history of aerial bombardment in closer detail and think through a little more carefully the contest between land-based, sea-based, and air-borne technologies and strategies. As well, in the US, the rise of and dominance of the air force is closely tied to the militarization of so-called “outer space.” And information sciences and technologies are deeply entangled in the “space race” of the late 1950’s, ‘60’s and ‘70’s. We could talk more about when and where and how space is discerned as open territory and when it can be viewed as the property of states and governments and what “mobility” means vis a vis deep space. [IMAGE 3] But for today, I just want to remind us that the area above the earth--the sky and the first layers of outer space--have histories of representation that are, to a significant degree, constructed around military intentions and interests. Space is a zone of freedom. But like all aspects of freedom after the European Enlightenment, that zone is structured by property relations and contests between states and corporations for dominance and wealth. Seversky’s world view is, perhaps, understandably Hobbesian. His life was imbricated by war, politics, and industry (military school, the Russian Naval Academy, an ace flyer in the early days of WWI, emigré aeronautical engineer, US citizen and government consultant, designer of the world’s first fully automatic bombsight, founding director of an aircraft corporation, and the designer of many features of modern aircraft intended for military use). The print version of Victory Through Air Power was read “by millions,” promoted as it was by the widely subscribed to Book-of-the Month Club. In a special preface to the Book-of-the-Month Club edition signed by the club’s president and its distinguished editorial board, readers are warned that the first impact of the book “will be one of alarm” (Scherman et al. 1942, xi). In what seems like a remarkable effort to simultaneously heighten and assuage public concerns, the preface argues that Major de Seversky is a “prophet” and that unified, strategic air power is the only way for the US to win the war. To press their point, they link technological advances in warfare to a rationalized teleology that leads inexorably to aerial bombardment: The airplane has revolutionized war. It has done so as completely, this book shows, as gunpowder did in the fifteenth century; more so than the steel-clad Monitor revolutionized naval warfare seventy-five years ago. Just so this book will revolutionize all our thinking about the war. No informed person reading it will ever again read the morning’s news the same way” (Scherman et al 1942, xiv). Indeed. The force of the book’s polemic against conventional naval and land-based standing armies in favor of the flexibility and deadly force of stragetically deployed air power was underscored when Walt Disney, then in almost fulltime production of war and US government friendly propaganda films, produced an animated feature film of the same name in cooperation with Seversky. The film is difficult to see these days since it proposes the incineration of Japan under the rubric of “the best defense is a good offense,” offering a particularly graphic view of what was then still an imaginary future of fire, death, and destruction for that nation’s populace. The Disney corporation has pulled most of its more overtly racist and “controversial” film products out of circulation and one can only view these texts in their archives in Burbank (although Victory Through Air Power is about to be released on dvd along with other Disney animated “political” films--look for it this spring just in time to enjoy it along with other war-themed projects that are currently in production). Popular discourse holds that the combined effect of the book and film versions of Victory Through Air Power changed the minds of both Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt, altering the course of the war and changing national military strategy forever after. As I am in the middle of researching this text, I’ll have to wait until another time to let you know whether or not that line of argument is apocryphal or not. I suspect that the combined reach of the book and film generated greater consensus towards air defense and offense along with other cultural products and forms of discourse. There were certainly powerful interests invested in promoting this line of argument. The spatial logic that gripped Seversky’s mind was one that could be best characterized as the bird’s eye view--that is from unlimited space on down to the earth’s surface. In another section of the longer work of which this talk is a part, I refer to this bird’s eye perspective as a cosmic view; that is, the unifying gaze of an omniscient viewer of the globe from a distance (Kaplan 2002). In his work on the history of images of the earth as a globe, Denis Cosgrove, identifies this phenomenon as the “Apollonian gaze;” as a logic of vision that “pulls diverse life on earth into a vision of unity” while maintaining an “individualized,” “divine and mastering view from a single perspective” (Cosgrove 2001, xi). [IMAGE 4] As Cosgrove reminds us, the Apollonian gaze is far older than the European Enlightenment, stretching back to classical Greek cosmologies and cultural practices. But in the last several centuries a specific intensification of this cultural tradition, corresponding with European colonization and Euro-American globalization, has created the context for the cosmic view I am concerned with here--the sight of the world from the air and the question of one’s location in relation to it as a marker of subjectivity. The kind of vision and perceptual logic that I am discussing today emerges in the modern age of travelers and is linked, therefore, to the modern discourse of mobility. As Michel Foucault has argued, 18th century European imaginary was structured around two fundamental tropes or perceptual structures. The first was the situation of a child who is born without powers of sight and then, later, becomes able to see--hence, the shock of the new in a dazzling moment of revelation. And the second example concerns the point of view of the European traveler who is shocked out of complacency and certainty by the situation of being thrust into an unknown country full of strange, new sights, sounds, and customs (Stafford 1984, 20). IT is argued that these “primal” experiences alter European consciousness in a profound way that can be traced throughout cultural production over the next several centuries. Light, sight, and travel become structuring concepts for this European Enlightenment subject, a subject that is arguably generically masculine, raced, propertied, and individualized in a legal as well as political, psychological, and philosophical sense. I am moving quickly through this cultural history in order to bring us to the question of ways of seeing as a result of this privileging of cosmopolitan mobility, particularly in relation to a specific logic of sight, what I am calling a “cosmic view.” In thinking about how the “cosmic view” works in the modernity generated by capitalist expansion and European imperialism, let’s consider the hot air balloon, which some consider to be the birth of “space” travel in more ways than one. [IMAGE 5] Throughout the mid-late 1700s, balloon flights were conducted in Europe for scientific research. Indeed, the French word for balloon flight “expérience--was synonymous with experiment” (Stafford 1984, 22). Although balloon flights were intended to provide new answers to long-standing questions about topography and weather, they quickly became thoroughly involved in military operations. Balloon invasions stirred the imaginations of many French commanders. Yet, although balloons were used for both surveillance and the launching of artillery at the turn of the 18th century, the problem of guidance and precision overcame the dream of “military aeronauts.” It is not until the invention of modern rockets and the airplane that aerial photography and guided missiles become integral to military strategy and that space becomes seen as the most effective arena for war. But if the hot air balloon was not the perfect weapon, it can be argued that it initiated a significant shift in modes of perception. Dovetailing with the emergence of views of nature as a separate realm apart from the newly despoiled industrial centers of capitalism, ballooning offered views of the “uncharted vastness of space” as a kind of sublime experience (Stafford 1984, 355). Floating above the earth as high as humans had yet been able to go, the gaze that ballooning made possible, was one in which distance is an advantage--that is, distant objects appear with the most clarity. It is a subjective or particular gaze, one that is associated with interior consciousness, but it is articulated as a universal aesthetic or episteme. [IMAGE 6] The belief that this personal eye can see almost limitlessly and, therefore, with extreme clarity, is one of the hallmarks of a culture that privileged exploration and industrial expansion during a century that led to an intensification of colonialism, nationalist ventures, and economic globalization in the form of imperialism. This “cosmic view” promises to link subjects in a unified gaze for the purpose of viewing and therefore mastering a world that had been hitherto unknown or unobserved. Such a view also poses as benign, perhaps, as an experiment, much as early ballooning did, and yet, it can be argued that the “cosmic view” is drawn upon for war as much as for anything else.

**Our link argument about mobility is particularly true when they invoke the nomad**
Kevin **Hannam,** Mimi **Sheller and** John **Urry,** August 20th, 20**06** (*School of Arts, Design, Media and Culture @ University of Sunderland, **Department of Sociology and Anthropology @ Swarthmore College,** *Department of Sociology @ Lancaster, “Editorial: Mobilities, Immobilities and Moorings,” http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/17450100500489189 >:)
Mobilities also are caught up in power geometries of everyday life (Massey, 1994). There are new places and technologies that enhance the mobility of some peoples and places even as they also heighten the immobility of others, especially as people try to cross borders (Timothy, 2001; Verstraete, 2004; Wood & Graham, 2006). ‘Differential mobility empowerments reflect structures and hierarchies of power and position by race, gender, age and class, ranging from the local to the global’ (Tesfahuney, 1998, p.501). Rights to travel, for example, are highly uneven and skewed even between a pair of countries (Timothy, 2001; Gogia, 2006). Many feminist theorists have argued that nomadic theory rests on a ‘romantic reading of mobility’, and that ‘certain ways of seeing [arise] as a result of this privileging of cosmopolitan mobility’ (Kaplan, 2006; see also Pritchard, 2000; Tsing, 2002). Ahmed, for example, critiques mobile forms of subjectivity and argues that the ‘idealisation of movement, or transformation of movement into a fetish, depends upon the exclusion of others who are already positioned as not free in the same way’ (Ahmed, 2004, p.152). Skeggs further argues that the mobility paradigm can be linked to a ‘bourgeois masculine subjectivity’ that describes itself as ‘cosmopolitan’; she points out that ‘[m]obility and control over mobility both reflect and reinforce power. Mobility is a resource to which not everyone has an equal relationship’ (Skeggs, 2004, p.49; see also Morley, 2002; Sheller & Urry, 2006b). It is not a question of privileging a ‘mobile subjectivity’, therefore, but rather of tracking the power and politics of discourses and practices of mobility in creating both movement and stasis (Cresswell, 1999; Maurer, 2002; Franklin et al., 2000).

**White supremacy is a global modality of genocidal violence – slavery may have ended in name, but its operational logic continues to fester. Their project simply provides fuel for Whiteness.**
**Rodriguez ’11** [Dylan, PhD in Ethnic Studies Program of the University of California Berkeley and Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of California Riverside, “The Black Presidential Non-Slave: Genocide and the Present Tense of Racial Slavery”, Political Power and Social Theory Vol. 22, pp. 38-43]
To crystallize what I hope to be the potentially useful implications of this provocation toward a retelling of the slavery-abolition story: if we follow the narrative and theoretical trajectories initiated here, it should take little stretch of the historical imagination, nor a radical distension of analytical framing, to suggest that the singular institutionalization of racist and peculiarly antiblack social/state violence in our living era - the US imprisonment regime and its conjoined policing and criminalization apparatuses - elaborates the social logics of genocidal racial slavery within the American nation-building project, especially in the age of Obama. The formation and astronomical growth of the prison industrial complex has become a commonly identified institutional marker of massively scaled racist state mobilization, and the fundamental violence of this apparatus is in the prison's translation of the 13th Amendment's racist animus. By "reforming" slavery and anti-slave violence, and directly transcribing both into criminal justice rituals, proceedings, and punishments, the 13th Amendment permanently inscribes slavery on "post-emancipation" US statecraft. The state remains a "slave state" to the extent that it erects an array of institutional apparatuses that are specifically conceived to reproduce or enhance the state's capacity to "create" (i.e., criminalize and convict) prison chattel and politically legitimate the processes of enslavement/imprisonment therein. The crucial starting point for our narrative purposes is that the emergence of the criminalization and carceral apparatus over the last forty years has not, and in the foreseeable future will not build its institutional protocols around the imprisonment of an economically productive or profitmaking prison labor force (Gilmore, 1999).16 So, if not for use as labor under the 13th Amendment's juridical mandate of "involuntary servitude," what is the animating structural-historical logic behind the formation of an imprisonment regime unprecedented in human history in scale and complexity, and which locks up well over a million Black people, significantly advancing numbers of "nonwhite" Latinos as, and in which the white population is vastly underrepresented in terms of both numbers imprisoned and likelihood to be prosecuted (and thus incarcerated) for similar alleged criminal offenses?17 In excess of its political economic, geographic, and juridical registers, the contemporary US prison regime must be centrally understood as constituting an epoch-defining statecraft of race: a historically specific conceptualization, planning, and institutional mobilization of state institutional capacities and state-influenced cultural structures to reproduce and/or reassemble the social relations of power, dominance, and violence that constitute the ontology (epistemic and conceptual framings) of racial meaning itself (da Silva, 2007; Goldberg, 1993). In this case, the racial ontology of the postslavery and post-civil rights prison is anchored in the crisis of social meaning wrought on white civil society by the 13th Amendment's apparent juridical elimination of the Black chattel slave being. Across historical periods, the social inhabitation of the white civil subject - - its self-recognition, institutionally affirmed (racial) sovereignty, and everyday social intercourse with other racial beings - is made legible through its positioning as the administrative authority and consenting audience for the nation- and civilization-building processes of multiple racial genocides. It is the bare fact of the white subject's access and entitlement to the generalized position of administering and consenting to racial genocide that matters most centrally here. Importantly, this white civil subject thrives on the assumption that s/he is not, and will never be the target of racial genocide.18 (Williams, 2010) .Those things obtained and secured through genocidal processes - land, political and military hegemony/dominance, expropriated labor - are in this sense secondary to the raw relation of violence that the white subject inhabits in relation to the racial objects (including people, ecologies, cultural forms, sacred materials, and other modalities of life and being) subjected to the irreparable violations of genocidal processes. It is this raw relation, in which white social existence materially and narratively consolidates itself within the normalized systemic logics of racial genocides, that forms the condition of possibility for the US social formation, from "abolition" onward. To push the argument further: the distended systems of racial genocides are not the massively deadly means toward some other (rational) historical ends, but are ends within themselves. Here we can decisively depart from the hegemonic juridical framings of "genocide" as dictated by the United Nations, and examine instead the logics of genocide that dynamically structure the different historical-social forms that have emerged from the classically identifiable genocidal systems of racial colonial conquest, indigenous physical and cultural extermination, and racial chattel slavery. To recall Trask and Marable, the historical logics of genocide permeate institutional assemblages that variously operationalize the historical forces of planned obsolescence, social neutralization, and "ceasing to exist." Centering a conception of racial genocide as a dynamic set of sociohistorical logics (rather than as contained, isolatable historical episodes) allows the slavery-to-prison continuity to be more clearly marked: the continuity is not one that hinges on the creation of late-20th and early-list century "slave labor," but rather on a re-institutionalization of anti-slave social violence. Within this historical schema, the post-1970s prison regime institutionalizes the raw relation of violence essential to white social being while mediating it so it appears as non-genocidal, non-violent, peacekeeping, and justice-forming. This is where we can also narrate the contemporary racial criminalization, policing, and incarcerating apparatuses as being historically tethered to the genocidal logics of the post-abolition, post-emancipation, and post-civil rights slave state. While it is necessary to continuously clarify and debate whether and how this statecraft of racial imprisonment is verifiably genocidal, there seems to be little reason to question that it is, at least, protogenocidal - displaying both the capacity and inclination for genocidal outcomes in its systemic logic and historical trajectory. This contextualization leads toward a somewhat different analytical framing of the "deadly symbiosis" that sociologist Loi'c Wacquant has outlined in his account of antiblack carceral-spatial systems. While it would be small-minded to suggest that the emergence of the late-20th century prison regime is an historical inevitability, we should at least understand that the structural bottom line of Black imprisonment over the last four decades - wherein the quantitative fact of a Black prison/jail majority has become taken-for-granted as a social fact - is a contemporary institutional manifestation of a genocidal racial substructure that has been reformed, and not fundamentally displaced, by the juridical and cultural implications of slavery's abolition. I have argued elsewhere for a conception of the US prison not as a selfcontained institution or isolated place, but rather as a material prototype of organized punishment and (social, civil, and biological) death (Rodriguez, 2006). To understand the US prison as a regime is to focus conceptually, theoretically, and politically on the prison as a pliable module or mobilized vessel through which technologies of racial domin8ance institutionalize their specific, localized practices of legitimated (state) violence. Emerging as the organic institutional continuity of racial slavery's genocidal violence, the US prison regime represents a form of human domination that extends beyond and outside the formal institutional and geographic domains of "the prison (the jail, etc.)." In this sense, the prison is the institutional signification of a larger regime of proto-genocidal violence that is politically legitimized by the state, generally valorized by the cultural common sense, and dynamically mobilized and institutionally consolidated across different historical moments: it is a form of social power that is indispensable to the contemporary (and postemancipation) social order and its changing structures of racial dominance, in a manner that elaborates the social logics of genocidal racial slavery. The binding presence of slavery within post-emancipation US state formation is precisely why the liberal multiculturalist narration of the Obama ascendancy finds itself compelled to posit an official rupture from the spectral and material presence of enslaved racial blackness. It is this symbolic rupturing - the presentation of a president who consummates the liberal dreams of Black citizenship. Black freedom, Black non-resentment, and Black patriotic subjectivity - that constructs the Black non-slave presidency as the flesh-and-blood severance of the US racial/racist state from its entanglement in the continuities of antiblack genocide. Against this multiculturalist narrative, our attention should be principally fixated on the bottom-line Blackness of the prison's genocidal logic, not the fungible Blackness of the presidency. CONCLUSION: FROM "POST-CIVIL RIGHTS" TO WHITE RECONSTRUCTION The Obama ascendancy is the signature moment of the post-1960s White Reconstruction, a period that has been characterized by the reformist elaboration of historically racist systems of social power to accommodate the political imperatives of American apartheid's downfall and the emergence of hegemonic (liberal-to-conservative) multiculturalisms. Byfocusing on how such reforms have neither eliminated nor fundamentally alleviated the social emergencies consistently produced by the historical logics of racial genocide, the notion of White Reconstruction departs from Marable's notion of the 1990s as the "twilight of the Second Reconstruction" (Marable. 2007. p. 216)19 and points toward another way of framing and narrating the period that has been more commonly referenced as the "post-civil rights" era. Rather than taking its primary point of historical departure to be the cresting of the Civil Rights Movement and its legacy of delimited (though no less significant) political-cultural achievements. White Reconstruction focuses on how this era is denned by an acute and sometimes aggressive reinvention and reorganization of the structural-institutional formations of racial dominance. Defined schematically, the recent half-century has encompassed a generalized reconstruction of "classically" white supremacist apparatuses of state-sanctioned and culturally legitimated racial violence. This general reconstruction has (1) strategically and unevenly dislodged various formal and de facto institutional white monopolies and diversified their personnel at various levels of access, from the entry-level to the administrative and executive levels (e.g., the sometimes aggressive diversity recruitment campaigns of research universities, urban police, and the military); while simultaneously (2) revamping, complicating, and enhancing the social relations of dominance, hierarchy, and violence mobilized by such institutions - relations that broadly reflect the long historical, substructural role of race in the production of the US national formation and socioeconomic order. In this sense, the notion of White Reconstruction brings central attention to how the historical logics of racial genocide may not only survive the apparent disruption of classical white monopolies on the administrative and institutional apparatuses that have long mobilized these violent social logics, but may indeed flourish through these reformist measures, as such logics are re-adapted into the protocols and discourses of these newly "diversified" racist and white supremacist apparatuses (e.g.. the apparatuses of the research university, police, and military have expanded their capacities to produce local and global relations of racial dominance, at the same time that they have constituted some of the central sites for diversity recruitment and struggles over equal access). It is, at the very least, a remarkable and dreadful moment in the historical time of White Reconstruction that a Black president has won office in an electoral landslide while well over a million Black people are incarcerated with the overwhelming consent of white/multiculturalist civil society.

**Vote negative to recognize the racial contract and reject the affirmative’s romantic reading of mobility and nomadic politics. Resisting the view of the world as a “purified order” is key to challenge oppression. Recognition of white supremacy as the sine qua non of contemporary politics is a key starting point. This is a pre-requisite to envisioning a world not upheld by the racial contract.**
Charles **Mills,** 19**97**, The Racial Contract, p. 1-3
White supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it is today. You will not find this term in introductory, or even advanced, texts in political theory. A standard undergraduate philosophy course will start off with Plato and Aristotle, perhaps say something about Augustine, Aquinas, and Machiavelli, move on to Hobbes, Locke, Mill, and Marx, and then wind up with Rawls and Nozick. It will introduce you to notions of aristocracy, democracy, absolutism, liberalism, representative government, socialism, welfare capitalism, and libertarianism. But though it covers more than two thousand years of Western political thought and runs the ostensible gamut of political systems, there will be no mention of the basic political system that has shaped the world for the past several hundred years. And this omission is not accidental. Rather, it reflects the fact that standard textbooks and courses have for the most part been written and designed by whites, who take their racial privilege so much for granted that they do not even see it as political, as a form of domination. Ironically, the most important political system of recent global history—the system of domination by which white people have historically ruled over and, in certain important ways, continue to rule over nonwhite people—is not seen as a political system at all. It is just taken for granted; it is the background against which other systems, which we are to see as political, are highlighted. This book is an attempt to redirect your vision, to make you see what, in a sense, has been there all along. / Philosophy bias remained remarkably untouched by the debates over multiculturalism, canon reform, and ethnic diversity racking the academy; both demographically and conceptually, it is one of the "whitest" of the humanities. Blacks, for example, constitute only about 1 percent of philosophers in North American universities—a hundred or so people out of more than ten thousand—and there are even fewer Latino, Asian American, and Native American philosophers.1 Surely this underrepresentation itself stands in need of an explanation, and in my opinion it can be traced in part to a conceptual array and a standard repertoire of concerns whose abstractness typically elides, rather than genuinely includes, the experience of racial minorities. Since (white) women have the demographic advantage of numbers, there are of course far more female philosophers in the profession than nonwhite philosophers (though still not proportionate to women's percentage of the population), and they have made far greater progress in developing alternative conceptualizations. Those African American philosophers who do work in moral and political theory tend cither to produce general work indistinguishable from that of their white peers or to focus on local issues (affirmative action, the black "underclass") or historical figures (W. E. B. Du Bois, Alain Locke) in a way that does not aggressively engage the broader debate. / What is needed is a global theoretical framework for situating discussions of race and while racism, and thereby challenging the assumptions of white political philosophy, which would correspond to feminist theorists' articulation of the centrality of gender, patriarchy, and sexism to traditional moral and political theory. What is needed, in other words, is a recognition that racism (or, as I will argue, global white supremacy) is itself a political system, a particular power structure of formal or informal rule, socioeconomic privilege, and norms for the differential distribution of material wealth and opportunities, benefits and burdens, rights and duties. The notion of the Racial Contract is, 1 suggest, one possible way of making this connection with mainstream theory, since it uses the vocabulary and apparatus already developed for contractarianism to map this unacknowledged system. Contract talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.

====2nc ani==== 

**We must decolonize our education or face genocide.**
Marimba **Ani**, 19**94**, Yurugu: An African-centered Critique of European Cultural Thought and Behavior, p. 1-2
This study of Europe is an intentionally aggressive polemic. It is an assault upon the European paradigm; a repudiation of its essence. It is initiated with the intention of contributing to the process of demystification necessary for those of us who would liberate ourselves from European intellectual imperialism. Europe's political domination of Africa and much of the "non-European" world has been accompanied by a relentless cultural and psychological rape and by devastating economic exploitation. But what has compelled me to write this book is the conviction that beneath this deadly onslaught lies a stultifying intellectual mystification that prevents Europe's political victims from thinking in a manner that would lead to authentic self-determination. Intellectual decolonization is a prerequisite for the creation of successful political decolonization and cultural reconstruction strategies. Europe's political imperialistic success can be accredited not so much to superior military might, as to the weapon of culture: The former ensures more immediate control but requires continual physical force for the maintenance of power, while the latter succeeds In long-lasting dominance that enlists the cooperation of its victims (i.e., pacification of the will). The secret Europeans discovered early in their history is that culture carries rules for thinking, and that if you could impose your culture on your victims you could limit the creativity of their vision, destroying their ability to act with will and intent and in their own interest. The truth is that we are all "intellectuals," all potential visionaries. / This book discusses the evolution of that process of imposition, as well as the characteristics of cultural beings who find it necessary to impose their will on others. It is not a simple process to explain, since the tools we need in order to dissect it have been taken from us through colonial miseducation.1 It is necessary to begin, therefore, with a painful weaning from the very epistemological assumptions that strangle us. The weaning takes patience and commitment, but the liberation of our minds is well worth the struggle. / My chosen field is African-Centered cultural science — the reconstruction of a revolutionary African culture. I teach Pan-African studies. The experience convinces me more and more, however, that teaching Pan-African studies well means teaching European studies simultaneously. To be truly liberated, African people must come to know the nature of European thought and behavior in order to understand the effect that Europe has had on our ability to think victoriously. We must be able to separate our thought from European thought, so as to visualize a future that is not dominated by Europe. This is demanded by an African-centered view because we are Africans, and because the future towards which Europe leads us is genocidal.

====2nc deconstruction link==== 

**Their Holloway evidence is a link – endless deconstruction leads to anti-humanism and the denial of agency. This makes resistance to white supremacist power structures impossible**
Will **Brooker,** 19**99** (“Agency,” http://faculty.washington.edu/cbehler/glossary/agency.html>:)
Agency A term referring to the role of the human actor as individual or group in directing or effectively intervening in the course of history. Liberal humanism sees the individual or subject as unified and self-determining. It therefore ascribes agency to this subject as a more or less unrestricted actor in shaping her/his own life and a more general social destiny. Marxism and other theories recognizing the influence of social and economic determinations beyond the individual offer a more qualified and complex view. 'Men make their own history,' Karl Marx famously declared, but 'do not make it under circumstances chosen by themselves'. For Marx, the working class was denied agency and would only assume its role as actor in the world through the revolutionary transformation of economic and social relations inspired by class consciousness. Critics of this view, within Marxism and poststructuralism, see it as no more than a postponement of the humanist ideal. Non-humanist positions, developed for example by Louis Althusser and Michel Foucault, appear to deny agency altogether. For Foucault, for example, power is omnipresent and though exercised with aims and objectives has no presiding 'headquarters,’ no specific source in the decisions of groups or individuals (1979: 94-5). As Anthony Giddens comments, 'Foucault's history tends to have no active subjects at all. It is history with the agency removed' (1987: 98). For some, the anti-humanism of poststructuralism comes unnervingly close to a belief such as Margaret Thatcher's that 'there is no such thing as society': a view which surrenders agency to market forces. Nevertheless, poststructuralist arguments have challenged the traditional Marxist emphasis upon class and party as the agencies of radical change and significantly influenced models of the operation of power and ideology. They have proved relevant if problematic, too, for feminist and other oppositional theories interested in the strategies which would render women and other subjugated peoples the 'subjects' (i.e. agents) of their own rather than the 'objects' of an imposed history. Debating the implications of poststructuralist theory for political action, Michele Barrett highlights the problem posed by deconstruction: 'Feminists recognise that the "naming" of women and men occurs within an opposition that one would want to challenge and transform, yet political silencing can follow from rejecting these categories altogether' (1991: 166). To deconstruct existing relations of power, she implies, threatens to deconstruct the concept of agency itself and thus to undermine any counter-strategy.

==guam road network neg== 
===inherency=== 
====1nc inherency==== 

**Interpretation – the aff has to be a change from status quo policies; it can’t be happening now**

**Substantially means real at present time**
**Words and Phrases ‘64**
(40W&P 759)
The words" outward, [...] true; not including

**Violation – road network improvements are happening now**
Randolph R. **Stone,** February 8th, 2012, **2/8** (Deputy Inspector General, Policy and Oversight, Department of Defense, “Report on the Program and Contract Infrastructure Technical Requirements Development for the Guam Realignment Program,” http://www.dodig.mil/Inspections/PDFs/DODIG-2012-052.pdf >:)
There are 49 [...] initial military realignment.

**Vote neg – inherency should be the starting point for policy analysis**
Tennyson **Williams,** Director of Debate at Macalaster College, 19**79** (“Revitalizing the Concept of Inherency,” Foreign Policy: A New Decade — Debater’s Research Guide, Published by Wake Forest University, Available Online at http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Williams1979ForPol.htm, Accessed 05-02-2011)
In recent years [...] and negative analysis.

====2nc violation==== 

**AND – seriously, they’re happening now**
Randolph R. **Stone,** February 8th, 2012, **2/8** (Deputy Inspector General, Policy and Oversight, Department of Defense, “Report on the Program and Contract Infrastructure Technical Requirements Development for the Guam Realignment Program,” http://www.dodig.mil/Inspections/PDFs/DODIG-2012-052.pdf >:)
The Joint Guam [...] and FY 2011.

====2nc standards==== 

**AND – you have to pull the trigger here – simply changing funding levels leaves the neg without any unique DA, destroying debate**
Phil **Kerpen,** Debate Theorist and Research Assistant at the Club for Growth, 19**99** (“Debate Theory Ossification," Rostrum, April, Available Online at http://debate.uvm.edu/NFL/rostrumlib/KerpenApr99.pdf, Accessed 09-01-03)
But affirmatives have [...] unique disad ground.

**Education – inherency’s key to understand the motives behind policymakers – teaches debaters why their affs haven’t been implemented yet, allowing for policymaking skills**
Tennyson **Williams**, Director of Debate at Macalaster College, 19**79** (“Revitalizing the Concept of Inherency,” Foreign Policy: A New Decade — Debater’s Research Guide, Published by Wake Forest University, Available Online at http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Williams1979ForPol.htm, Accessed 05-02-2011)
Perhaps the greatest [...] likely to continue.

===road network pic=== 
====1nc rnn==== 

**[CP TEXT: United States federal government should;**
**- give NAVFAC PAC authority to obligate funds for upgrading Guam wastewater plants to meet primary treatment standards and enable sufficient capacity,**
**- ask the government of Guam to increase the reliability and transmission security of its electrical system, and**
**- provide the Port Authority of Guam with the non-monetary requisites to upgrading the Port of Guam’s cargo handling capacity to achieve required throughput.]**
**We’ll clarify.**

**Wastewater treatment plants suck now – they’ll prevent realignment; CP solves**
Randolph R. **Stone,** February 8th, 20**12** (Deputy Inspector General, Policy and Oversight, Department of Defense, “Report on the Program and Contract Infrastructure Technical Requirements Development for the Guam Realignment Program,” http://www.dodig.mil/Inspections/PDFs/DODIG-2012-052.pdf >:)
Currently, the Guam [...] the military realignment.

**The Port of Guam must be upgraded to support realignment – working together with Guam solves**
Randolph R. **Stone**, February 8th, 20**12** (Deputy Inspector General, Policy and Oversight, Department of Defense, “Report on the Program and Contract Infrastructure Technical Requirements Development for the Guam Realignment Program,” http://www.dodig.mil/Inspections/PDFs/DODIG-2012-052.pdf >:)
The Port of [...] modern safe standard.”

**Failing electrical systems collapse realignment – reliability and transmission security are key**
**GAO**, May 1st, 20**08** (Government Accountability Office, “DEFENSE INFRASTRUCTURE Planning Efforts for the Proposed Military Buildup on Guam Are in Their Initial Stages, with Many Challenges Yet to Be Addressed” http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a481050.pdf >:)
Guam’s electrical system [...] the military buildup.

====2nc highway racism nb==== 

**The net benefit is transportation racism – highway infrastructure disproportionately hurts minorities**
Robert D. **Bullard**, Glenn S. **Johnson, and** Angel O. **Torres,** Publish 20**04**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Pg 182-194 :)
A 2001 Surface [...] and smart growth.

**Opposing racism is the precondition to moral coherence**
Albert **Memmi, 2k**, Racism, p. 159-161
Evidently, I am [...] like a beast.

===south guam urbanization=== 
====1nc sgu==== 

**South Guam isn’t heavily developed now, and its road network is simple – the plan urbanizes the region**
**Natural Resources Atlas of Southern Guam**, November 4th, 2012, **11/4** (Water and Environmental Research Institute of the Western Pacific Island Research and Education Initiative, “Southern Guam Infrastructure,” http://www.hydroguam.net/population-infrastructure.php >:)
Guam is one [...] and Santa Rita.

**Specifically, the plan destroys South Guam’s beaches and increases recreational misuse**
**Guam Buildup EIS**, July 20**10** (no seriously, it’s the most recent Environmental Impact Assessment conducted to determine the effects of the military buildup, “Chapter 11: Recreational Resources,” http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch11_Recreational_Resources.pdf >:)
Road improvements within [...] the South Region.

**Urbanization and recreational misuse destroy South Guam’s biodiversity – kills coral reefs, wetlands and marine biodiversity**
**Natural Resources Atlas of Southern Guam**, November 4th, 2012, **11/4** (Water and Environmental Research Institute of the Western Pacific Island Research and Education Initiative, “Environment of Southern Guam,” http://www.hydroguam.net/environment-overview.php >:)
Despite its small [...] and recreational misuse.

**Biodiversity loss causes extinction**
Bruce E. **Tonn**, Urban Planning Prof @ Tennessee, November 20**07**, Futures v. 39, no. 9, “Futures Sustainability”, ln
The first principle [...] must be protected.

====2nc impact wall==== 

**Loss of marine biodiversity ends all life**
**Craig**, 20**03**, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana U School Law, McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis
Biodiversity and ecosystem [...] biosphere with us.

**Destruction of coral reefs causes extinction**
**US Department of State 2k** (“Coral Reefs: Fertile Gardens of the Sea” http://usinfo.state.gov/products/pubs/biodiv/coral.htm)
According to the [...] the 21st century.

**Wetland destruction causes stagnation**
**RCW 96** (The Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, November 15, 1996, “Wetlands and biological diversity,” online: http://www.ramsar.org/about/about_biodiversity.htm)
Wetlands - including (inter [...] forests and grasslands.

===takazato=== 
====1nc takazato==== 

**Relocation of US bases to Guam spreads the institutionalized violence of the military, racism against Asians, and patriarchal social structure**
Suzuyo **Takazato**, February 20**07** (co-chair of Okinawa Women Act against Military Violence, “Outposts of Violence: Sixty Years of Women’s Activism against US Military Bases,” http://www.peaceworkmagazine.org/node/451 >:)
Okinawa Women Act [...] its military bases.

**US control of Guam furthers militarism, kills self-determination and ensures regional instability – makes war inevitable**
**Kirk** 20**08** Gwyn, Women for Genuine Security, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific” March 14 http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) SS
Militarism is a [...] the feminized role.

**Thus, United States military presence ought not to exist.**
Myrla **Baldonado**, 19**98** (statement coordinator, People’s Task Force for Base Clean Up, Philippines, http://www.nuclearfiles.org/hinonproliferationtreaty/98npt_ngo2.html)
Genuine peace can [...] toward nuclear disarmament.

==waterways neg== 
===wind power bad=== 
====1nc wind==== 

**Wind power supplies less than 1% of electricity now**
Christopher **Cotter**, published 20**07** (JD candidate @ University of Dayton School of Law, “Comment: Wind Power and the Renewable Portfolio Standard: An Ohio Analysis,” 32 Dayton L. Rev. 405, l/n)
Wind power currently [...] or "RPS policy"). n9

**The plan’s modernization of inland waterways is crucial to wind energy**
**NEED**, 20**09** (National Energy Education Development Project, releases publications by experts to inform students and teachers about renewable energy, “Energy and Our Rivers,” http://www.riverworksdiscovery.org/downloads/need_curriculum/StudentBackgrounder.pdf)
How does the energy [...] sources to work.

**Specifically, modernized waterways are key to access wind farms in hard-to-navigate locations – rail and roads can’t sustain the wind industry**
Brad **Hall**, April 16th, 20**09** (American Commercial Lines’ Vice President, General Manager Dry Cargo, “Inland waterways have an abundance of unused capacity,” http://www.pes.eu.com/assets/misc/ask-the-experts-american-commercial-linespdf-79.pdf >:)
PES: Often, wind [...] and for the future.

**Wind power is bad – disrupts US warning radars and missile defense systems**
**DoD R&E**, written 20**06** (Office of the Director of Defense Research and Engineering, “The Effect of Windmill Farms on Military Readiness,” http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/windfarmreport.pdf >:)
There is growing [...] and clutter effects.

**Missile defense is key to deter and deny all missile threats – specifically, solves war with North Korea and Syrian bioweapons use**
Robert **Pfaltzgraff**, et al, January 30th, 20**09**, PhD and professor of international security studies at Tufts, president of the IFPA, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship & the Twenty-First Century,” https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf
Twenty-first century threats [...] greater detail below.

**Korea war causes extinction**
**Hayes and Hamel-Green, ‘10** Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University – 1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf
The international community [...] the international community.

**Bioweapons cause extinction**
Richard J **Ochs**, 6-9-20**02****, frmr president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project and a member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.htmlOf all the [...] IS NOW POSSIBLE.

====2nc bioweapons top-level==== 

**Magnitude**
**Zakaria et al, ‘05**
(Fareed, NewsWeek Staff Correspondent, Melinda, Beijing Bureau Chief, Rod, Chief Foreign Correspondent, and Dr. Paul, Lead Epidemiologist Bayor College of Medicine Flu Research Center, October 31, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” NewsWeek, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/9787690/site/newsweek/).
A flu pandemic is [...] our priorities right?

====2nc turns econ==== 

**Crashes the housing market**
**Pie** 12/4/**07**, Protect Illinois’ Environment, grass-roots organization concerned with environmental preservation in Illinois, [[http://www.protectillinoisenvironment.com/]]
My own rationale for asking the IWC to decide to adopt a management regime of permanent protection for whales from consumptive commercial exploitation on a global basis is both simple and complex. It is grounded i pragmatic practicalities of both fact and feeling regarding 'Whales in a Modern World'. I am not here arguing for the sanctity of all life on earth. I am not advocating equal rights for all animal species. I am seeking to set forth a rational and moral basis for a future determination by one, specialised, international, human agency that one order of marine mammals should be managed in this manner. Why whales? My rationale most simply is that whales are uniquely special! They really are in a class by themselves. Let me cite four major categories of uniqueness. First, whales are biologically special. Whales include by far the largest animals on earth, growing to be over 30 metres in length - the blue whale (Balenoptera musculus). Whales include the possessors of by far the largest brain of any creature ever to have lived on our planet, weighing four or five times as much as the human brain - the sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). Whales include the creators of the most complex, long - lasting, repetitive sound patterns of any non - human animal - the humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae). And whales include species (Tursiops truncatus and some other odontocetes) which exceed humans and all other groups as well in convolutedness or fissurisation of the cerebral cortex. Marine mammal veterinarian Sam Ridgway, of the U.S. Naval Ocean Systems Centre in San Diego, has reported findings that the bottlenose dolphin, in particular, by a variety of measurements (encephalisation quotient, volume of cortex, ratio of brain weight to spinal cord weight, etc.) ranks just below humans and considerably above other higher primates, including gorillas, chimpanzees, and orangutans. In all these ways whales are truly unique biologically! Second, whales are ecologically special. Whales have evolved as marine mammals over millions of years, with both baleen and toothed whales probably appearing up to 25 million years ago, long before the development of human beings and the latter's intrusion in the ocean ecosystem. Whales are at the top of the vast food chain of the sea. Baleen whales consume the largest amount of zooplankton, and the killer whale (Orcinus orca) is the world's greatest non- human predator. Whales affect the ocean ecosystem in a uniquely global manner, and any exploitation of other marine resources, whether krill or fish, must uniquely take into account cetaceans. Human life depends upon a proper balance in the amount of oxygen in earth's atmosphere produced from the plankton that is kept in check most critically by whale consumption.

**That collapses the economy**
**Fraser**, 12/9/**07** (Steve, writer and editor and author of "Wall Street: America's Dream Palace" to be published by Yale University Press, p. LA Times)
No one wants [...] things have become.

====2nc turns heg==== 

**Wind power turns heg – creates hazards preventing military power**
**iEPA**, June 11th, 20**08** (Inside EPA, “DoD Needs Comprehensive Strategy on Wind Energy Policy, Expert Says,” http://insideepa.com/pdf/Energy-Washington-Week/Energy-Washington-Week-06/11/2008/dod-needs-comprehensive-strategy-on-wind-energy-policy-expert-says/menu-id-93.pdf >:)
In a report [...] use of renewable energy.

====2nc whales impact==== 

**Wind Turbines devastate whale populations**
Dona **Tracy**, August 21st, 20**07** (reporter, Gather, “Greenpeace: Promotes Deadly Hazard to Whales and Dolphins,” http://www.gather.com/viewArticle.jsp?articleId=281474977092483 >:)
There was a [...] construction is over.

**Extinction**
**Barstow ’89** (Robbins, PhD, Exec Dir – Cetasean Society International, The Magazine of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society, No. 2, Autumn, http://www.highnorth.no/Library/Movements/General/be-wh-s2.htm)
My own rationale for asking the IWC to decide to adopt a management regime of permanent protection for whales from consumptive commercial exploitation on a global basis is both simple and complex. It is grounded i pragmatic practicalities of both fact and feeling regarding 'Whales in a Modern World'. I am not here arguing for the sanctity of all life on earth. I am not advocating equal rights for all animal species. I am seeking to set forth a rational and moral basis for a future determination by one, specialised, international, human agency that one order of marine mammals should be managed in this manner. Why whales? My rationale most simply is that whales are uniquely special! They really are in a class by themselves. Let me cite four major categories of uniqueness. First, whales are biologically special. Whales include by far the largest animals on earth, growing to be over 30 metres in length - the blue whale (Balenoptera musculus). Whales include the possessors of by far the largest brain of any creature ever to have lived on our planet, weighing four or five times as much as the human brain - the sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). Whales include the creators of the most complex, long - lasting, repetitive sound patterns of any non - human animal - the humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae). And whales include species (Tursiops truncatus and some other odontocetes) which exceed humans and all other groups as well in convolutedness or fissurisation of the cerebral cortex. Marine mammal veterinarian Sam Ridgway, of the U.S. Naval Ocean Systems Centre in San Diego, has reported findings that the bottlenose dolphin, in particular, by a variety of measurements (encephalisation quotient, volume of cortex, ratio of brain weight to spinal cord weight, etc.) ranks just below humans and considerably above other higher primates, including gorillas, chimpanzees, and orangutans. In all these ways whales are truly unique biologically! Second, whales are ecologically special. Whales have evolved as marine mammals over millions of years, with both baleen and toothed whales probably appearing up to 25 million years ago, long before the development of human beings and the latter's intrusion in the ocean ecosystem. Whales are at the top of the vast food chain of the sea. Baleen whales consume the largest amount of zooplankton, and the killer whale (Orcinus orca) is the world's greatest non- human predator. Whales affect the ocean ecosystem in a uniquely global manner, and any exploitation of other marine resources, whether krill or fish, must uniquely take into account cetaceans. Human life depends upon a proper balance in the amount of oxygen in earth's atmosphere produced from the plankton that is kept in check most critically by whale consumption.

====2nc dekker==== 

**Don’t buy their impact defense—the west underestimates Syrian bioweapons**
**Dekker, ‘07** - consultant to the NATO Defense Establishment in bio-warfare and counter terrorism, Jill, “Syria’s Bio-Warfare Threat: an interview with Dr. Jill Dekker”, Interviewed by Jerry Gordon in the New English Review, Dec, http://www.newenglishreview.org/custpage.cfm/frm/13108/sec_id/13108
Dekker: It is similar [...] the very near future.

====at: radar not key==== 

**US radar is key to maintain the missile defense shield and deter attacks from rogue states**
**Agence France Presse**, AFP, July 8th, 20**08** (global news agency, “Russia threatens to ‘react’ against US missile shield,” http://www.canada.com/topics/news/story.html?id=d20546d6-cbf0-4584-8079-74532c8c50d6)
The deal with Prague [...] Polish talks stall.

==hsr neg== 
===incremental service improvements=== 
====1nc isi==== 

**[CP TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a network of transnational “fast enough” railroads through incremental service improvements.]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**CP solves best – generates support for future increases while avoiding political backlash**
**Gulliver** Business Travel, July 3rd, 20**11** (writer, The Economist, “How fast is fast enough?” http://www.economist.com/blogs/gulliver/2011/07/high-speed-rail >:)
Yes, bullet trains [...] Mr Longman argues.

====at: ridership==== 

**CP’s key to ensure adequate ridership – true HSR kills ridership by increasing ticket fares and only increasing top speeds -- empirics go our way**
Road **Frank**, June 29th, 20**11** (writer, Orphan Road, “Medium Speed Rail,” http://www.orphanroad.com/blog/2011/06/medium-speed-rail >:)
Having recently made the case for blowing up the long-range plan and starting over again on the Amtrak Cascades, let me offer some time to a more incrementalist vision. In the current Washington Monthly, Phillip Longman cites Cascades as a winning example of “not-quite-so-high-speed rail.”This principle is also illustrated by Amtrak’s highly successful “Cascades” service on the 187-mile line between Portland and Seattle. The Spanish-designed Talgo “tilt” train sets look futuristic, and with their on-board bistros and comfy chairs they are a joy to ride. But because they run on conventional track through mountainous country shared by freight trains, their current top speed is only 79 mph, and their average speed is just 53. Still, that’s enough to make taking the train faster than driving, and ridership has swelled to more than 700,000 passengers a year. Using federal stimulus dollars plus state spending, work is currently under way to boost top train speeds to 110-125 mph, simply by adding better signaling and more sidings to let freight trains get out of the way. This incremental investment will also boost reliability and allow for increased frequency, which will further bump up ridership. But numerous studies show there is no point in making trains go faster than 125 mph on a segment this short because of the great cost involved and the limited gains to total trip times. Moreover, if a new bullet train line were built between Portland and Seattle, the tremendous cost of its construction would require fares too high for all but well-heeled business travelers to afford. Fair point. Longman also argues persuasively that, in the medium term, frequency and reliability are much more important to increasing ridership than pure speed. I do wonder, though, how much better frequency and reliability can get so long as the freight companies own the tracks.

====at: p/ cp==== 

**The plan and CP are functionally distinct – here’s evidence from the author our 1NC solvency advocate cites directly comparing high-speed rail with the CP**
Phillip **Longman** (senior fellow at the Washington Monthly and the New America foundation, “The Case for Not-Quite-So-High-Speed Rail,”July/August 20**11**, http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/julyaugust_2011/features/the_case_for_notquite_sohighsp030492.php?page=1 >:)
Because of its [...] throughout the Rhine Valley.

===i liek trainz=== 
====1nc fto==== 

**The US freight train network is amazing now – the plan reduces efficiency**
Yonah **Freemark**, July 24th, 20**10** (transportation writer, The Transport Politic, “The U.S. Emphasis on Passenger Rail and the Future of Freight,” http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/07/24/the-u-s-emphasis-on-passenger-rail-and-the-future-of-freight/ >:)
» Industry, citing experience [...] possible in most cases.

**Supply disruptions kill the chemical industry and turns case**
Bernard L **Weinstein and** Terry L **Clower**, February 9th, 19**98** (Ph.D., Center for Economic Development and Research, UNT, “The Impacts of the Union Pacific Service Disruptions on the Texas and National Economies: An Unfinished Story,” http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc30377/m1/9/ >:)
The Gulf Coast's [...] to twelve months.

**Chemical industry’s key to solve bioterror**
**NAS**, posted 20**03** (National Academy of Sciences, “Beyond the Molecular Frontier: Challenges for Chemistry and Chemical Engineering,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=10633#toc, pg. 175 >:)
How can chemists [...] must be developed.

**Extinction**
**Kellman, ‘08** (Barry Kellman is the director of the International Weapons Control Center, “Bioviolence: A Growing Threat”, The Futurist, May-June 2008, http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf)
A looming danger [...]is profoundly dangerous.

====2nc turns warming==== 

**Freight rail reduces emissions – comparably better than trucks**
**Hamberger 8** (Ed, chief executive of the American Association of Railroads, “Railroad lobby touts freight rail as best option for cleaner, more affordable goods movement,” http://www.eenews.net/tv/transcript/826 ;)
It would be [...] freight by rail.

====2nc turns econ==== 

**Freight rail k2 trucks of the road and leads to growth**
**Booen 11** (Bret, writer for Supply Change Digital, “How Freight Rail is Getting the Economy Back on Track,” 4/18/12 http://www.teamidslogistics.com/news/how-freight-rail-is-getting-the-us-economy-back-on-track ;)
There are 565 [...] and job creation.”

**Congestion hurts the economy**
**Staley** (senior research fellow at Reason Foundation and associate director of the DeVoe L. Moore Center at Florida State University in Tallahassee where he teaches college students) 1-5-**12** (Samuel, “Traffic Congestion and the Economic Decline of Cities,” http://reason.org/news/show/traffic-congestion-and-the-economic ;)
As the economic [...] America's cities productive.

==climate adaptation neg== 
===climate mitigation / co2 ions cp=== 
====1nc co2 ions==== 

[CP TEXT: United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in climate mitigation, including but not limited to ionization and radio-wave propulsion of carbon dioxide.]

We’ll clarify. Ionization and radio wave propulsion removes CO2 from the atmosphere – solves warming
Winchester Whisperer, June 11th, 2007 (“CO2 solution,” http://winchesterwhisperer.blogspot.com/2007/06/co2-solution.html >:)
Dr Alfred Wong of the University of California has an interesting solution for eradicating excess CO2. He spends much time in Alaska manufacturing fireworks displays in the form of artificial auroras. The magnetic shield of the Earth opens to space at the poles and anything travelling along the magnetic field could be forced vertically upwards at the poles and ejected into space. Dr Wong's idea is to release electrons into the atmosphere which would pair up with the CO2 molecules and form CO2 ions which are negatively charged. Using radio waves to propel them at an altitude of 125km, these ions would then spiral along the magnetic shield of the Earth until they fly out of the holes into space.

====at: p/ both==== 

The plan and CP are mutually exclusive – climate adaptation and mitigation investments are zero-sum
Richard S. J. Tol, May 30th, 2006 (Research Unit Sustainability and Global Change, Centre for Marine and Atmospheric Sciences, Economic and Social Research Institute, Hamburg, Germany, “The double trade-off between adaptation and mitigation for sea level rise: an application of FUND,” http://fnu.zmaw.de/fileadmin/fnu-files/publication/tol/RM2373.pdf >:)
Many people phrase climate policy’s basic trade-off as that between mitigation and adaptation (e.g., Barbier and Pearce 1990; Nordhaus 1991; Schelling 1992; Parry et al. 1998). If we would mitigate more, climate change and its impacts are lower and we would have to adapt less. Optimal climate policy would balance the marginal costs of emission reduction and the marginal damage costs of climate change (Nordhaus 1992; Manne et al. 1995; Tol 1999), itself a trade-off between adaptation and residual damage (Smith and Lenhart 1996; Fankhauser et al. 1999; Mendelsohn 2000).1 However, if we would mitigate more, we would have less resources left for adaptation, and climate change impacts may be higher. This argument is often overlooked, although eloquently made by Schelling (1992, 1995), and demonstrated by Tol and Dowlatabadi (2001) and Tol (2002c). This paper revisits this argument, focussing on sea level rise.

Adaptation would force a trade-off – it shares the budget with mitigation
Ray et al ’11- Writers for the UNEP rise center on energy, climate and sustainable development (Lars Christiansen, Aaron D. Ray, Joel B. Smith, Erik Haite, 2011, “Accessing International Funding for Climate Change Adaptation – A Guidebook for Developing Countries”, pg. 6 || RT)
One of the challenges in assessing the state of adaptation finance is the variance in estimates of the amount of money available. The variance of estimates presented here is due to use of different methodologies when accounting for adaptation finance; different sources being included in the sums; and the use of different time frames. Despite the variance in the estimates, there are two common findings. First, adaptation funding lags behind funding for mitigation. Second, the majority of adaptation funding has come from the public sector. Table 2.2 shows data from UNEP on the financial instruments used by the public sector to fund climate change mitigation and adaptation projects and their distribution in 2010. It is clear that mitigation projects capture the vast majority of the funding, while in both cases, concessional loans are the most commonly used financial instrument. Concessional loans are typically provided to developing countries and carry lower interest rates and longer repayment periods than market rate (or non-concessional) loans. When considering financing options from public institutions, developing countries often pursue these financial instruments.

Mitigation’s better than adaptation –doing both kills the effectiveness of both
Joe Romm, March 28th, 2008 (“The adaptation trap and the nonskeptical delayers (like Roger Pielke) — Part 1,” http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2008/03/28/202053/adaptation-trap-and-nonskeptical-deniers-roger-pielke-1/ >:)
The L.A. Times, with the help of the delayer-1000 du jour, Roger Pielke, Jr., has brought to prominence (and fallen for) what I call the “adaptation trap”: The adaptation trap is the belief that 1) “it would be easier and cheaper to adapt than fight climate change” [as the Times puts it in the sub-head] and/or 2) “adaptation” to climate change is possible in any meaningful sense of the word absent an intense mitigation effort starting now to keep carbon dioxide concentrations below 450 ppm. Sorry for the long definition, but as we’ll see, the second part is especially critical in what has now becaome an important emerging policy debate, which is cleverly devoid of specifics. (Indeed, on his blog, Pielke says he was misquoted and denies he believes the first part, which actually makes the L.A.T. piece even lamer, as Grist’s Dave Roberts shows). And being misquoted doesn’t mean Pielke isn’t very wrong anyway — as we’ll see at the end, Pielke is so confused about adaptation and mitigation that he takes the prize for the most backward analogy in the history of the climate debate and unintentionally proves just how wrong he is. You see, as I’ve been arguing, the real question for the world is not whether we can stabilize below 450 ppm of atmospheric carbon dioxide if we try hard enough and fast enough — of course we can, and at a very low cost according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which self-described “nonskeptical heretics” like Pielke claim to believe in. The real question for humanity is whether we can avoid 800 to 1000 ppm or more. That is what the delayers and nonskeptical heretics simply don’t understand. At 800 to 1000 ppm, the world faces faces multiple catastrophes, including: Sea level rise of 80 feet to 250 feet at a rate of 6 inches a decade (or more). Desertification of one third the planet and drought over half the planet, plus the loss of all inland glaciers. More than 70% of all species going extinct, plus extreme ocean acidification. [I will explore these and other impacts in more detail in Part 2.] This Hell and High Water could be “adapted” to by billions and billions of people only in the sense that the citizens of New Orleans “adapted” to Hurricane Katrina or that people in Darfur have “adapted” to their military conflict. Such “adaptation” is better called “suffering” as former AAAS President John Holdren describes it in talks. What will it take to avoid 800 to 1000 ppm? Remember the IPCC bombshell from last year: Based on current understanding of climate carbon cycle feedback … to stabilise at 1000 ppm this feedback could require that cumulative emissions be reduced from a model average of approximately 1415 [1340 to 1490] GtC to approximately 1100 [980 to 1250] GtC. That means that to have confidence of avoiding 1000 ppm, we need to have average annual carbon emission substantially below 11 billion tons a year, or average annual carbon dioxide emissions much below 40 billion tons a year. Note: We’re at about 30 billion tons of CO2 annually and rising more than 3% a year. We’ll probably be over 40 billion by 2020. Just staying at the 2020 level for another 8 decades would require immediate action and strong national and global measures for a century.

Warming outweighs everything
Deibel, ‘07 (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. Scientists worldwide have been observing the gathering of this threat for three decades now, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty. Indeed not one of more than 900 articles on climate change published in refereed scientific journals from 1993 to 2003 doubted that anthropogenic warming is occurring. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming.” Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports shows: an international panel predicts “brutal droughts, floods and violent storms across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; the only debate is how much and how serious the effects will be. As the newspaper stories quoted above show, we are already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in more violent storms, spread of disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and threatened inundation of low-lying countries like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that “humankind’s continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life support system. At worst, says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University, “we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to heat the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then everything will collapse.” During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possibly end life on this planet. Global warming is the post-Cold War era’s equivalent of nuclear winter at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. Over the long run it puts dangers from terrorism and traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.

Magnitude – none of their evidence makes an extinction level claim and nuclear war doesn’t cause it
Martin 84, physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA (Brian, May 16th, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html)
By the 1950s, a large number of people had come to believe that the killing of much or all of the world's population would result from global nuclear war. This idea was promoted by the peace movement, among which the idea of 'overkill' - in the sense that nuclear arsenals could kill everyone on earth several times over - became an article of faith. Yet in spite of the widespread belief in nuclear extinction, there was almost no scientific support for such a possibility. The scenario of the book and movie On the Beach,[2] with fallout clouds gradually enveloping the earth and wiping out all life, was and is fiction. The scientific evidence is that fallout would only kill people who are immediately downwind of surface nuclear explosions and who are heavily exposed during the first few days. Global fallout has no potential for causing massive immediate death (though it could cause up to millions of cancers worldwide over many decades).[3] In spite of the lack of evidence, large sections of the peace movement have left unaddressed the question of whether nuclear war inevitably means global extinction. The next effect to which beliefs in nuclear extinction were attached was ozone depletion. Beginning in the mid-1970s, scares about stratospheric ozone developed, culminating in 1982 in the release of Jonathan Schell's book The Fate of the Earth.[4] Schell painted a picture of human annihilation from nuclear war based almost entirely on effects from increased ultraviolet light at the earth's surface due to ozone reductions caused by nuclear explosions. Schell's book was greeted with adulation rarely observed in any field. Yet by the time the book was published, the scientific basis for ozone-based nuclear extinction had almost entirely evaporated. The ongoing switch by the military forces of the United States and the Soviet Union from multi-megatonne nuclear weapons to larger numbers of smaller weapons means that the effect on ozone from even the largest nuclear war is unlikely to lead to any major effect on human population levels, and extinction from ozone reductions is virtually out of the question.[3] The latest stimulus for doomsday beliefs is 'nuclear winter': the blocking of sunlight from dust raised by nuclear explosions and smoke from fires ignited by nuclear attacks. This would result in a few months of darkness and lowered temperatures, mainly in the northern mid-latitudes.[5] The effects could be quite significant, perhaps causing the deaths of up to several hundred million more people than would die from the immediate effects of blast, heat and radiation. But the evidence, so far, seems to provide little basis for beliefs in nuclear extinction. The impact of nuclear winter on populations nearer the equator, such as in India, does not seem likely to be significant. The most serious possibilities would result from major ecological destruction, but this remains speculative at present. As in the previous doomsday scenarios, antiwar scientists and peace movements have taken up the crusading torch of extinction politics. Few doubts have been voiced about the evidence about nuclear winter or the politics of promoting beliefs in nuclear extinction. Opponents of war, including scientists, have often exaggerated the effects of nuclear war and emphasized worst cases. Schell continually bends evidence to give the worst impression. For example, he implies that a nuclear attack is inevitably followed by a firestorm or conflagration. He invariably gives the maximum time for people having to remain in shelters from fallout. And he takes a pessimistic view of the potential for ecological resilience to radiation exposure and for human resourcefulness in a crisis. Similarly, in several of the scientific studies of nuclear winter, I have noticed a strong tendency to focus on worst cases and to avoid examination of ways to overcome the effects. For example, no one seems to have looked at possibilities for migration to coastal areas away from the freezing continental temperatures or looked at people changing their diets away from grain-fed beef to direct consumption of the grain, thereby greatly extending reserves of food. Nuclear doomsdayism should be of concern because of its effect on the political strategy and effectiveness of the peace movement. While beliefs in nuclear extinction may stimulate some people into antiwar action, it may discourage others by fostering resignation. Furthermore, some peace movement activities may be inhibited because they allegedly threaten the delicate balance of state terror. The irony here is that there should be no need to exaggerate the effects of nuclear war, since, even well short of extinction, the consequences would be sufficiently devastating to justify the greatest efforts against it. The effect of extinction politics is apparent in responses to the concept of limited nuclear war. Antiwar activists, quite justifiably, have attacked military planning and apologetics for limited nuclear war in which the effects are minimized in order to make them more acceptable. But opposition to military planning often has led antiwar activists to refuse to acknowledge the possibility that nuclear war could be 'limited' in the sense that less than total annihilation could result. A 'limited' nuclear war with 100 million deaths is certainly possible, but the peace movement has not seriously examined the political implications of such a war. Yet even the smallest of nuclear wars could have enormous political consequences, for which the peace movement is totally unprepared.[6]

Extinction first
Bostrom, 5 Professor of Philosophy @ Oxford (Nick, http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/view/id/44)
Now if we think about what just reducing the probability of human extinction by just one percentage point. Not very much. So that’s equivalent to 60 million lives saved, if we just count currently living people. The current generation. One percent of six billion people is equivalent to 60 million. So that’s a large number. If we were to take into account future generations that will never come into existence if we blow ourselves up then the figure becomes astronomical. If we could you know eventually colonize a chunk of the universe the virgo supercluster maybe it will take us a hundred million years to get there but if we go extinct we never will. Then even a one percentage point reduction in the extinction risk could be equivalent to this astronomical number 10 to the power of 32 so if you take into account future generations as much as our own every other moral imperative or philanthropic cause just becomes irrelevant. The only thing you should focus on would be to reduce existential risk, because even the tiniest decrease in existential risk would just overwhelm any other benefit you could hope to achieve. Even if you just look at the current people and ignore the potential that would be lost if we went extinct it should still be a high priority.

Extinction shatters your decision frame – it outweighs everything S
chell ‘82 (Jonathan, professor at Wesleyan University, former writer and editor at the New Yorker, “The Fate of the Earth,” pg. 93) Up to now, every risk has been contained within the frame of life; extinction would shatter the frame. It represents not the defeat of some purpose but an abyss in which all human purposes would be drowned for all time. We have no right to place the possibility of this limitless, eternal defeat on the same footing as risks that we run in the ordinary conduct of our affairs in our particular transient moment of human history.

Warming causes nuclear war for a bunch of reasons the aff can’t solve
Campbell et al, 7 (Kurt, “The Age of Consequences: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Global Climate Change,” CSIS, November, p. 3, http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/071105_ageofconsequences.pdf)
In the case of severe climate change, corresponding to an average increase in global temperature of 2.6°C by 2040, massive nonlinear events in the global environment give rise to massive nonlinear societal events. In this scenario, addressed in Chapter IV, nations around the world will be overwhelmed by the scale of change and pernicious challenges, such as pandemic disease. The internal cohesion of nations will be under great stress, including in the United States, both as a result of a dramatic rise in migration and changes in agricultural patterns and water availability. The flooding of coastal communities around the world, especially in the Netherlands, the United States, South Asia, and China, has the potential to challenge regional and even national identities. Armed conflict between nations over resources, such as the Nile and its tributaries, is likely and nuclear war is possible. The social consequences range from increased religious fervor to outright chaos. In this scenario, climate change provokes a permanent shift in the relationship of humankind to nature.

Probability –

a.) Intervening actors
Hansen, 7 – Professor of Environmental Science @ Columbia (James et al, http://www.atmos-chem-phys.net/7/2287/2007/acp-7-2287-2007.html)
These stark conclusions about the threat posed by global climate change and implications for fossil fuel use are not yet appreciated by essential governing bodies, as evidenced by ongoing plans to build coal-fired power plants without CO2 capture and sequestration. In our view, there is an acute need for science to inform society about the costs of failure to address global warming, because of a fundamental difference between the threat posed by climate change and most prior global threats. In the nuclear standoff between the Soviet Union and United States, a crisis could be precipitated only by action of one of the parties. In contrast, the present threat to the planet and civilization, with the United States and China now the principal players (though, as Fig. 10 shows, Europe also has a large responsibility), requires only inaction in the face of clear scientific evidence of the danger.

b.) Comparatively
New York End Times, 6 (The New York End Times is a non-partisan, non-religious, non-ideological, free news filter. We monitor world trends and events as they pertain to two vital threats - war and extinction. We use a proprietary methodology to quantify movements between the extremes of war and peace, harmony and extinction. http://newyorkendtimes.com/extinctionscale.asp)
We rate Global Climate Change as a greater threat for human extinction in this century. Most scientists forecast disruptions and dislocations, if current trends persist. The extinction danger is more likely if we alter an environmental process that causes harmful effects and leads to conditions that make the planet uninhabitable to humans. Considering that there is so much that is unknown about global systems, we consider climate change to be the greatest danger to human extinction. However, there is no evidence of imminent danger. Nuclear war at some point in this century might happen. It is unlikely to cause human extinction though. While several countries have nuclear weapons, there are few with the firepower to annihilate the world. For those nations it would be suicidal to exercise that option. The pattern is that the more destructive technology a nation has, the more it tends towards rational behavior. Sophisticated precision weapons then become better tactical options. The bigger danger comes from nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists with the help of a rogue state, such as North Korea. The size of such an explosion would not be sufficient to threaten humanity as a whole. Instead it could trigger a major war or even world war. Under this scenario human extinction would only be possible if other threats were present, such as disease and climate change. We monitor war separately. However we also need to incorporate the dangers here.

Timeframe – the brink is now
Podesta and Ogden, 7 *President of the Center for American Progress and ** Senior National Security Analyst at the Center for American Progress (John and Peter, The Security Implications of Climate Change, The Washington Quarterly 31.1, Winter 2007)
Consequently, even though the IPCC projects that temperature increases at higher latitudes will be approximately twice the global average, it will be the developing nations in the earth's low latitudinal bands, as well as sub-Saharan African countries, that will be most adversely affected by climate change. In the developing world, even a relatively small climatic shift can trigger or exacerbate food shortages, water scarcity, destructive weather events, the spread of disease, human migration, and natural resource competition. These crises are all the more dangerous because they are interwoven and self-perpetuating: water shortages can lead to food shortages, which can lead to conflict over remaining resources, which can drive human migration, which can create new food shortages in new regions. Once underway, this chain reaction becomes increasingly difficult to stop. It is therefore critical that policymakers do all they can to prevent the domino of the first major climate change consequence, whether it be food scarcity or the outbreak of disease, from toppling. The most threatening first dominos, where they are situated, and their cascading geopolitical implications are identified in this essay.

Warming’s a D-Rule
Cerutti, 7 (Furio Cerutti, Professor of Political Philosophy at the University of Florence, “Global Challenges for Leviathan: A Political Philosophy of Nuclear Weapons and Global Warming.” Lexington Books. p. 112-113)
In ethical terms the inertia phenomenon burdens on us a still greater responsibility towards future generations (granted we recognize any such responsibility, a fundamental problem which shall be discussed later in this book). If we live in an environment threatened by possibly irreversible inertial processes, we are responsible for not worsening the life conditions of those who will later dwell on a planet that will be more endangered than it is for us, because the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and their inertial impact will be in any case greater than it is in our time. Hence arises to us an obligation to decrease emissions as far as it is compatible with the preserva¬tion not of our "life style," but of acceptable standards of civilization and consumption, which entails economic growth, but not growth of any kind and at any cost. Further enhancement of our knowledge about climate change and especially the role of inertia may justify strengthening or abating the precautionary measures the present stand of knowledge leads us to take. The "precautionary principle" is a wide and (because of its costs) problematic ethical matter, which shall not be examined in this book. For our inquiry suffice it to say that precaution in matters of global challenges establishes an obligation to act for the care of future generations with measures whose volume may seem to be disproportionate to the present degree of certainty about the threat level. In other words, if our doing nothing or little can endanger their elementary life conditions, we are justified by the dimension of what might be at stake if we take those measures. Even if there is no certainty, the simple likelihood of a very large human suffering is reason enough to be cautious, as we have seen in the risk chapter (one) of this book. The need to learn more and not draw wholesome and hurried conclusions is one thing, cheap skepticism on present knowledge versus reasonable preoccupation with it is another."

Warming kills the economy
Washington Post, 6 (Warming Called Threat To Global Economy. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/10/30/AR2006103000269.html)
Failing to curb the impact of climate change could damage the global economy on the scale of the Great Depression or the world wars by spawning environmental devastation that could cost 5 to 20 percent of the world's annual gross domestic product, according to a report issued yesterday by the British government. The report by Nicholas Stern, who heads Britain's Government Economic Service and formerly served as the World Bank's chief economist, calls for a new round of international collaboration to cut greenhouse gas emissions linked to global warming. "There's still time to avoid the worst impacts of climate change, if we act now and act internationally," Stern said in a statement. "But the task is urgent. Delaying action, even by a decade or two, will take us into dangerous territory. We must not let this window of opportunity close."

Try or die.
James E. Hansen and Makiko Sato, 2011, NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and Columbia University Earth Institute, “Paleoclimate Implications for Human-Made Climate Change,” http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/mailings/2011/20110118_MilankovicPaper.pdf
Milankovic climate oscillations help define climate sensitivity and assess potential human-made climate effects. We conclude that Earth in the warmest interglacial periods was less than 1°C warmer than in the Holocene and that goals of limiting human-made warming to 2°C and CO2 to 450 ppm are prescriptions for disaster. Polar warmth in prior interglacials and the Pliocene does not imply that a significant cushion remains between today's climate and dangerous warming, rather that Earth today is poised to experience strong amplifying polar feedbacks in response to moderate additional warming. Deglaciation, disintegration of ice sheets, is nonlinear, spurred by amplifying feedbacks. If warming reaches a level that forces deglaciation, the rate of sea level rise will depend on the doubling time for ice sheet mass loss. Gravity satellite data, although too brief to be conclusive, are consistent with a doubling time of 10 years or less, implying the possibility of multi-meter sea level rise this century. The emerging shift to accelerating ice sheet mass loss supports our conclusion that Earth's temperature has returned to at least the Holocene maximum. Rapid reduction of fossil fuel emissions is required for humanity to succeed in preserving a planet resembling the one on which civilization developed.

(__) MAGNITUDE – Warming poses more certain threats that are as threatening as war and will be impossible to recover from – risks human extinction.
Alan Dupont, July 2008, Michael Hintze Prof of International Security and Director of the Centre for International Security Studies at the U of Sydney, “The Strategic Implications of Climate Change,” Survival 50.3, p 46-47
War has customarily been considered the main threat to international security because of the large number of deaths it causes and the threat it poses to the functioning and survival of the state. Judged by these criteria, it is clear that climate change is potentially as detrimental to human life and economic and political order as traditional military threats.57 Environmental dangers, such as climate change, stem not from competition between states or shifts in the balance of power; rather, they are human-induced disturbances to the fragile balance of nature. But the consequences of these disturbances may be just as injurious to the integrity and functioning of the state and its people as those resulting from military conflict. They may also be more difficult to reverse or repair. / Protecting and stabilising our climate is a legitimate long-term objective of security policy, since human survival is dependent on the health of the biosphere and the coupled ocean–atmosphere. Climate change of the magnitude and time frames projected by climate scientists poses fundamental questions of human security, survival and the stability of nation-states which necessitate judgements about political and strategic risk as well as economic and environmental cost. Based on the evidence to date, it is difficult to see climate change alone compelling a major reconfiguration of the global balance of power in the foreseeable future. Shifts of this order pre-suppose substantial redistributions of the relative productive capacities of nation-states, but current climate models are still not accurate enough to describe in detail how most individual states will be affected.

PROBABILITY – four of the last five previous mass extinctions happened during warming periods – many past societies have been toppled by climate change.
Alan Dupont, July 2008, Michael Hintze Prof of International Security and Director of the Centre for International Security Studies at the U of Sydney, “The Strategic Implications of Climate Change,” Survival 50.3, p 47
While state weakness and destabilising internal conflicts are a more likely outcome than inter-state war, climate change acts as a stress multiplier on all societies and states. In assessing the long-term consequences of climate change for international security we should be mindful of Jared Diamond’s warning that in many historical cases a society that was depleting its environmental stocks could absorb losses as long as the climate was benign, but when it became more variable or harsh these societies were pushed over the edge and even collapsed. It was the combination of environmental impact and climate change that proved fatal.58 Whether or not Diamond’s observations are germane to our milieu remains to be seen, but can we afford to ignore the risk? It is sobering that on four out of five previous occasions of mass extinction in the Earth’s history, at least half of all animal and plant species are estimated to have been wiped out during periods of warming that are comparable to those in prospect.59

Because climate change is irreversible we must err on the side of preventing it even if the scientific evidence is debatable
Cass R. Sunstein—Professor in the Department of Political Science and at the Law School of the University of Chicago—2007 (“Worst-Case Scenarios”, Harvard University Press)
Most worst-case scenarios appear to have an element of irreversibility. Once a species is lost, it is lost forever. The special concern for endangered species stems from the permanence of their loss (outside of Jurassic Park). One of the most serious fears associated with genetically modified organisms is that they might lead to irreversible ecological harm. Because some greenhouse gases stay in the atmosphere for centuries, the problem of climate change may be irreversible, at least for all practical purposes. Transgenic crops can impose irreversible losses too, because they can make pests more resistant to pesticides. If we invest significant wealth in one source of energy and neglect others, we may be effectively stuck forever, or at least for a long time. One objection to capital punishment is that errors cannot be reversed. In ordinary life, our judgments about worst-case scenarios have everything to do with irreversibility. Of course an action may be hard but not impossible to undo, and so there may be a continuum of cases, with different degrees of difficulty in reversing. A marriage can be reversed, but divorce is rarely easy; having a child is very close to irreversible; moving from New York to Paris is reversible, but moving back may be difficult. People often take steps to avoid courses of action that are burdensome rather than literally impossible to reverse. In this light, we might identify an Irreversible Harm Precautionary Principle, applicable to a subset of risks.' As a rough first approximation, the principle says this: Special steps should be taken to avoid irreversible harms, through precautions that go well beyond those that would be taken if irreversibility were not a problem. The general attitude here is "act, then learn," as opposed to the tempting alternative of "wait and learn." In the case of climate change, some people believe that research should be our first line of defense. In their view, we should refuse to commit substantial resources to the problem until evidence of serious harm is unmistakably clear.' But even assuming that the evidence is not so clear, research without action allows greenhouse gas emissions to continue, which might produce risks that are irreversible, or at best difficult and expensive to reverse. For this reason, the best course of action might well be to take precautions now as a way of preserving flexibility for future generations. In the environmental context in general, this principle suggests that regulators should proceed with far more aggressive measures than would otherwise seem justified.

====at: warming irreversible / solomon==== 

Err neg on solvency – their ‘warming inevitable’ author doesn’t assume the CP
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">NOAA, January 6th, 2009 (“New Study Shows Climate Change Largely Irreversible,” http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories2009/20090126_climate.html >:) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">A new scientific study led by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration reaches a powerful conclusion about the climate change caused by future increases of carbon dioxide: to a large extent, there’s no going back. The pioneering study, led by NOAA senior scientist Susan Solomon, shows how changes in surface temperature, rainfall, and sea level are largely irreversible for more than 1,000 years after carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions are completely stopped. The findings appear during the week of January 26 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. “Our study convinced us that current choices regarding carbon dioxide emissions will have legacies that will irreversibly change the planet,” said Solomon, who is based at NOAA’s Earth System Research Laboratory in Boulder, Colo. “It has long been known that some of the carbon dioxide emitted by human activities stays in the atmosphere for thousands of years,” Solomon said. “But the new study advances the understanding of how this affects the climate system.” The study examines the consequences of allowing CO2 to build up to several different peak levels beyond present-day concentrations of 385 parts per million and then completely halting the emissions after the peak. The authors found that the scientific evidence is strong enough to quantify some irreversible climate impacts, including rainfall changes in certain key regions, and global sea level rise. If CO2 is allowed to peak at 450-600 parts per million, the results would include persistent decreases in dry-season rainfall that are comparable to the 1930s North American Dust Bowl in zones including southern Europe, northern Africa, southwestern North America, southern Africa and western Australia. The study notes that decreases in rainfall that last not just for a few decades but over centuries are expected to have a range of impacts that differ by region. Such regional impacts include decreasing human water supplies, increased fire frequency, ecosystem change and expanded deserts. Dry-season wheat and maize agriculture in regions of rain-fed farming, such as Africa, would also be affected. Climate impacts were less severe at lower peak levels. But at all levels added carbon dioxide and its climate effects linger because of the ocean. “In the long run, both carbon dioxide loss and heat transfer depend on the same physics of deep-ocean mixing. The two work against each other to keep temperatures almost constant for more than a thousand years, and that makes carbon dioxide unique among the major climate gases,” said Solomon. The scientists emphasize that increases in CO2 that occur in this century “lock in” sea level rise that would slowly follow in the next 1,000 years. Considering just the expansion of warming ocean waters—without melting glaciers and polar ice sheets—the authors find that the irreversible global average sea level rise by the year 3000 would be at least 1.3–3.2 feet (0.4–1.0 meter) if CO2 peaks at 600 parts per million, and double that amount if CO2 peaks at 1,000 parts per million. “Additional contributions to sea level rise from the melting of glaciers and polar ice sheets are too uncertain to quantify in the same way,” said Solomon. “They could be even larger but we just don’t have the same level of knowledge about those terms. We presented the minimum sea level rise that we can expect from well-understood physics, and we were surprised that it was so large.” Rising sea levels would cause “…irreversible commitments to future changes in the geography of the Earth, since many coastal and island features would ultimately become submerged,” the authors write. Geoengineering to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere was not considered in the study. “Ideas about taking the carbon dioxide away after the world puts it in have been proposed, but right now those are very speculative,” said Solomon.</span>

====at: nuclear winter==== 

No impact to winter
Martin ‘84 (Brian Martin, physicist, research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA, associate professor in Science, Technology and Society at the University of Wollongong, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html#n3)

The latest stimulus for doomsday beliefs is 'nuclear winter': the blocking of sunlight from dust raised by nuclear explosions and smoke from <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">fires ignited by nuclear attacks. This would result in a few months of darkness and lowered temperatures, mainly in the northern mid-latitudes.[5] The effects could be quite significant, perhaps causing the deaths of up to several hundred million more people than would die from the immediate effects of blast, heat and radiation. But the evidence, so far, seems to provide little basis for beliefs in nuclear extinction. The impact of nuclear winter on populations nearer the equator, such as in India, does not seem likely to be significant. The most serious possibilities would result from major ecological destruction, but this remains speculative at present. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Science disagrees </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Nyquist ‘99 (JR, IR Analyst; Columnist, WorldNetDaily, “Is nuclear war survivable?” http://www.worldnetdaily.com/index.php?fa=PAGE.view&pageId=6341) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">I patiently reply to these correspondents that nuclear war would not be the end of the world. I then point to studies showing that "nuclear winter" has no scientific basis, that fallout from a nuclear war would not kill all life on earth. Surprisingly, few of my correspondents are convinced. They prefer apocalyptic myths created by pop scientists, movie producers and journalists. If Dr. Carl Sagan once said "nuclear winter" would follow a nuclear war, then it must be true. If radiation wipes out mankind in a movie, then that's what we can expect in real life. But Carl Sagan was wrong about nuclear winter. And the movie "On the Beach" misled American filmgoers about the effects of fallout. It is time, once and for all, to lay these myths to rest. Nuclear war would not bring about the end of the world, though it would be horribly destructive. The truth is, many prominent physicists have condemned the nuclear winter hypothesis. Nobel laureate Freeman Dyson once said of nuclear winter research, "It's an absolutely atrocious piece of science, but I quite despair of setting the public record straight." Professor Michael McElroy, a Harvard physics professor, also criticized the nuclear winter hypothesis. McElroy said that nuclear winter researchers "stacked the deck" in their study, which was titled "Nuclear Winter: Global Consequences of Multiple Nuclear Explosions" (Science, December 1983). Nuclear winter is the theory that the mass use of nuclear weapons would create enough smoke and dust to blot out the sun, causing a catastrophic drop in global temperatures. According to Carl Sagan, in this situation the earth would freeze. No crops could be grown. Humanity would die of cold and starvation. In truth, natural disasters have frequently produced smoke and dust far greater than those expected from a nuclear war. In 1883 Krakatoa exploded with a blast equivalent to 10,000 one-megaton bombs, a detonation greater than the combined nuclear arsenals of planet earth. The Krakatoa explosion had negligible weather effects. Even more disastrous, going back many thousands of years, a meteor struck Quebec with the force of 17.5 million one-megaton bombs, creating a crater 63 kilometers in diameter. But the world did not freeze. Life on earth was not extinguished. Consider the views of Professor George Rathjens of MIT, a known antinuclear activist, who said, "Nuclear winter is the worst example of misrepresentation of science to the public in my memory." Also consider Professor Russell Seitz, at Harvard University's Center for International Affairs, who says that the nuclear winter hypothesis has been discredited. Two researchers, Starley Thompson and Stephen Schneider, debunked the nuclear winter hypothesis in the summer 1986 issue of Foreign Affairs. Thompson and Schneider stated: "the global apocalyptic conclusions of the initial nuclear winter hypothesis can now be relegated to a vanishingly low level of probability."</span>

====<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">at: links to politics</span>==== 

It’s popular in Congress – both warming believers and skeptics like it
Michaelson 98, Jay ale Law School, 1997; B.A., Columbia University, 1993, An earlier version of this Article was awarded the 1997 Ambroze Gherini Prize in international law and policy by Yale Law School. Much of the Article was written during a postgraduate summer research fellowship with the Olin Foundation for Law, Economics and Public Policy at Yale Law School “GEOENGINEERING: A CLIMATE CHANGE MANHATTAN PROJECT” http://www.metatronics.net/lit/geo2.html
From a policy perspective--which is the primary focus of this Article-- geoengineering, though perhaps counterintuitive, should be very attractive to both greenhouse "True Believers" and the most ardent of skeptics. To the skeptic, and the policymaker, geoengineering offers a relatively painless, relatively cheap alternative to costly and unpopular regulation. Allowing airplanes to fly dirtier (the "sunscreen proposal") may involve some implementation and secondary costs, but compared with the economic upheavals associated with even modest reductions in carbon dioxide emissions, it is a bargain, especially if implementation may be delayed while our uncertainty about climate change lessens. [FN22] To the greenhouse True Believer, geoengineering offers both hope and despair: hope for a solution to climate change, despair at retreating from prevention as that solution. To any thoughtful environmentalist, a Big Fix is woefully counterintuitive--it treats symptoms, not causes, and allows the rapacious consumerism of the West to progress unchecked. Indeed, that is what makes it popular with skeptics. But a geoengineering policy can work. True, it does not make the polluter pay, or halt the destruction of ancient forests. And, as discussed below, there are serious ecological concerns associated with any tampering with the Earth's climatic systems. *79 But because, as argued in this Article, geoengineering avoids the pitfalls of a traditional, regulation-based climate change strategy, the True Believer should still be convinced. Climate Change "Marshall Plans," [FN23] designed to curtail greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, tend to fail before they begin. Developing technology to affect the climate directly--a Climate Change Manhattan Project-- can work.

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">**sunshades**</span>=== 
====1nc sunshades==== 

**[CP TEXT: United States federal government should develop and deploy sufficient space sunshades.]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**That solves global warming at the source, even if we’re past the tipping point**
**TGO ‘9**
(The Green Optimistic, “Reducing Global Warming,” http://www.greenoptimistic.com/2009/03/02/reducing-global-warming-with-a-huge-space-mounted-mirror-shade/)
Humans have always [...] will be solved.

====2nc turn shield==== 

**Their turns are non-unique –**

**1.) Geo-engineering is inevitable –**

**a.) Human nature**
Brian **Green**, June 12th, 20**12** (writer, the moral mindfield, “Is Geoengineering Now Inevitable, or is the Only Solution to a Technological Problem More Technology?” http://moralmindfield.wordpress.com/2012/06/12/is-geoengineering-now-inevitable-or-is-the-only-solution-to-a-technological-problem-more-technology/ >:)
We are then, [...] engineering as grace.)

**b.) Technological culture**
Dane **Scott**, 20**12** (director, Mansfield Center’s Ethics and Public Affairs Program, assistant professor of ethics @ College of Forest, “Geoengineering and Environmental Ethics,” http://www.nature.com/scitable/knowledge/library/geoengineering-and-environmental-ethics-80061230 >:)
For the environmental [...] a tremendous force.

====at: weather wars==== 

**1.) China and US weather mod now should’ve triggered the impact – and, no tech for military use of weather**
Ajey **Lele**, October 12th, 20**09** (writer @ Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, “China’s Experiments with Weather Modification; A Cause for Concern,” http://www.idsa.in/idsastrategiccomments/ChinasExperimentswithWeatherModification_ALele_121009 >:)
China’s weather modification [...] the ENMOD Convention.

**2.) Weather mod tech now – only question is whether it’s used for military or ecological purposes – CP solves weather wars by focusing on environment**
Dr. Nick **Begich and** Jeane **Manning**, February 4th, 20**06** (former president, Anchorage Council of Education, “The Military’s Pandora’s Box,” http://newyorkskywatch.com/2009/03/31/new-york-skywatch-march-30-2009 >:)
Avalanches of energy [...] potentially risky topic.”

**3.) Even if other nations start to geo-engineer, the result is cooperation – checks the impact**
David **Victor**, October 15th, 20**08** (Stanford University and Council on Foreign Relations professor at the School of International Relations and Pacific Studies and co-director of the School's new Laboratory on International Law “On the Regulation of Geoengineering” http://www.kysq.org/docs/322.pdf)
Such a scenario [...] geoengineering systems.

===microbubbles cp=== 
====1nc microbubbles==== 

**[CP TEXT: United States federal government should fully fund a program to cover 4.8% of the Earth’s oceans in a monolayer of 0.1 micrometer (μm) diameter latex particles, either hollow, or of core-shell morphology, bearing a conventional stabilization system that is inactivated in salt water.]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**CP solves warming**
**Morgan, ‘11** – (10/8/11, John, PhD in physical chemistry, runs R&D programmes at a Sydney startup company, research experience in chemical engineering in the US and at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australia's national science agency, “Low intensity geoengineering – microbubbles and microspheres,” http://bravenewclimate.com/2011/10/08/low-intensity-geoengineering-microbubbles-and-microspheres/ DH)
Lets run the [...] are also possible.

====at: ocean collapse da==== 

**Platforms are small and can be moved to avoid side effects**
**Evans, ‘10** – (2010, J. R. G. Evans, Department of Chemistry, University College of London, E. P. J. Stride, Department of Mechanical Engineering, University College of London, M. J. Edirisinghe, Department of Mechanical Engineering, University College of London, D. J. Andrews, Department of Mechanical Engineering, University College of London, R. R. Simons, Department of Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering, University College of London, “Can oceanic foams limit global warming?”http://www.see.ed.ac.uk/~shs/Climate%20change/Flettner%20ship/Evans_et_al_ClimRes2010.pdf DH)
There are of [...] the desired forcing.

====at: links to ptx==== 

**1.) The CP’s politically popular – avoids public backlash and provides economic benefits**
**Michaelson 98**, Jay ale Law School, 1997; B.A., Columbia University, 1993, An earlier version of this Article was awarded the 1997 Ambroze Gherini Prize in international law and policy by Yale Law School. Much of the Article was written during a postgraduate summer research fellowship with the Olin Foundation for Law, Economics and Public Policy at Yale Law School “GEOENGINEERING: A CLIMATE CHANGE MANHATTAN PROJECT” http://www.metatronics.net/lit/geo2.html
Some geoengineering proposals, [...] climate change regulation.

**2.) It’s popular in Congress – both warming believers and skeptics like it**
**Michaelson 98**, Jay ale Law School, 1997; B.A., Columbia University, 1993, An earlier version of this Article was awarded the 1997 Ambroze Gherini Prize in international law and policy by Yale Law School. Much of the Article was written during a postgraduate summer research fellowship with the Olin Foundation for Law, Economics and Public Policy at Yale Law School “GEOENGINEERING: A CLIMATE CHANGE MANHATTAN PROJECT” http://www.metatronics.net/lit/geo2.html
From a policy [...] Project-- can work.

====2nc turn shield+==== 

**c.) Necessity and empirics – proves there’s no link to politics**
Clive **Hamilton**, September 13th, 20**10** (Charles Sturt Professor of Public Ethics at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics @ Australian National University, “The frightening politics of geo-engineering,” http://ourworld.unu.edu/en/the-frightening-politics-of-geoengineering/#authordata >:)
Lowell Wood believes [...] with the atmosphere.

===inherency=== 
====1nc inherency==== 

**Interpretation – the aff has to be a change from status quo policies; it can’t be happening now**
**Substantially means real at present time**
**Words and Phrases ‘64**
(40W&P 759)
The words" outward, [...] true; not including

**Violation – climate adaptation for transportation infrastructure happening now**
**DOT ’11** Department of Transportation (2011, “US DOT Policy Statement On Climate Change Adaptation”, http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/climate_change/adaptation/policy_and_guidance/usdotpolicy.pdf || RT)
The DOT policy [...] science and information.

**Vote neg – inherency should be the starting point for policy analysis**
Tennyson **Williams**, Director of Debate at Macalaster College, 19**79** (“Revitalizing the Concept of Inherency,” Foreign Policy: A New Decade — Debater’s Research Guide, Published by Wake Forest University, Available Online at http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Williams1979ForPol.htm, Accessed 05-02-2011)
In recent years [...] and negative analysis.

====2nc violation==== 

**AND – seriously, they’re happening now**
**DOT ’11**- Department of Transportation (2011, “US DOT Policy Statement On Climate Change Adaptation”, http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/climate_change/adaptation/policy_and_guidance/usdotpolicy.pdf || RT)
In implementing this [...] uncertainty and change.

====2nc standards==== 

**AND – you have to pull the trigger here – simply changing funding levels leaves the neg without any unique DA, destroying debate**
Phil **Kerpen,** Debate Theorist and Research Assistant at the Club for Growth, 19**99** (“Debate Theory Ossification," Rostrum, April, Available Online at http://debate.uvm.edu/NFL/rostrumlib/KerpenApr99.pdf, Accessed 09-01-03)
But affirmatives have [...] unique disad ground.

**Education – inherency’s key to understand the motives behind policymakers – teaches debaters why their affs haven’t been implemented yet, allowing for policymaking skills**
Tennyson **Williams**, Director of Debate at Macalaster College, 19**79** (“Revitalizing the Concept of Inherency,” Foreign Policy: A New Decade — Debater’s Research Guide, Published by Wake Forest University, Available Online at http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Williams1979ForPol.htm, Accessed 05-02-2011)
Perhaps the greatest [...] likely to continue.

===qatar marine cloud brightening=== 
====1nc qatar mcb==== 

**[CP TEXT: Qatar should invest in a sufficient fleet of unmanned, wind-powered, remotely controlled ships for marine cloud brightening. Qatar should substantially increase investment in transportation infrastructure.]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**Cloud brightening solves case – reflects sunlight back into space, decreasing warming – empirically proven to work, and it’s politically popular**
Alexander **Besant,** August 21st, 2012, **8/21** (GlobalPost Breaking News Writer and freelance journalist in the Mediterranean region, recent graduate of Columbia University School of Journalism in New York City, “Cloud Brightening could halt global warming, say scientists,” http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/science/120821/cloud-brightening-could-halt-global-warming-say-scientists >:)
Cloud brightening may [...] manipulate the climate.

**Qatar can fund geo-engineering research**
Chris **Arsenault,** November 26th, 2012, **11/26** (“Geoengineering: A climatic ‘Frankenstein’?” http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/2012/11/20121123142543116905.html >:)
Doha, Qatar - The [...] already been lost.

**Qatar infrastructure investment solves the manufacturing advantage and Qatari soft power – impact is Fatah/Hamas peace**
**O’Sullivan, 11** — professor at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, former deputy national security adviser, and Bloomberg columnist (Meghan L., “Tiny Qatar’s Big Plans May Change Mideast: Meghan L. O’Sullivan”, Bloomberg, 9/3/11, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/tiny-qatar-s-big-plans-may-change-u-s-mideast-policy-meghan-o-sullivan.html, Deech)
Qatar, a country [...] beyond corporate profits.

====at: p/ both==== 

**Doesn’t solve Qatari soft power – only leading by example and refusing to sit on the sidelines bolsters leadership**
**Mainen, 11** [Policy Analyst-Institute for Gulf Affairs, “Decision Time for Qatar”, http://mainen.blogspot.com/2011/04/decision-time-for-qatar.html]
It’s no secret [...] network helped generate.

**The permutation crushes the economy – turns case**
**Greenspan, 96** — former Chairman of the Federal Reserve (Allen, CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, 4/17/1996)
On behalf of [...] control spending effectively.

====2nc turn shield==== 

**Trials for cloud brightening have been funded and enacted**
**Guardian**, May 14th, 20**10** (“Bill Gates’ cloud whitening trials a ‘dangerous experiment’,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2010/may/14/bill-gates-cloud-whitening-dangerous >:)
Campaigners have criticised [...] can be introduced.

====at: co2==== 

**Cloud brightening offsets the effects of CO2 – and it’s technologically feasible**
John **Latham et al**, 20**12** (National Centre for Atmospheric Research, School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Manchester, “Marine cloud brightening,” http://rsta.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/370/1974/4217.full >:)
Marine cloud brightening [...] regarded as definitive.

====at: environment==== 

**Cloud brightening can be halted immediately – means no risk of long-term environmental disruption**
**Guardian**, May 14th, 20**10** (“Bill Gates’ cloud whitening trials a ‘dangerous experiment’,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2010/may/14/bill-gates-cloud-whitening-dangerous >:)
A major report [...] of the atmosphere.

===economy advantage=== 
====1nc econ f/l==== 

The plan only mandates an increase in climate resilient infrastructure, they do not improve status quo infrastructure – means they can’t solve since infrastructure is failing now
Snyder 9/20 (Michael, Undergraduate degree in Commerce from the University of Virginia and I have a law degree from the University of Florida law school. I also have an LLM from the University of Florida law school. Worked for some of the largest law firms in Washington D.C, “21 Facts About America's Decaying Infrastructure That Will Blow Your Mind,” http://theeconomiccollapseblog.com/archives/21-facts-about-americas-failing-infrastructure-that-will-blow-your-mind ;)
You can tell a lot about a nation by the condition of the infrastructure. So what does our infrastructure say about us? It says that we are in a very advanced state of decay. At this point, much of America is being held together with spit, duct tape and prayers. Our roads are crumbling and thousands of our bridges look like they could collapse at any moment. Our power grid is ancient and over a trillion gallons of untreated sewage is leaking from our aging sewer systems each year. Our airports and our seaports are clogged with far more traffic than they were ever designed to carry. Approximately a third of all of the dam failures that have taken place in the United States since 1874 have happened during the past decade. Our national parks and recreation areas have been terribly neglected and our railroads are a bad joke. Hurricane Katrina showed how vulnerable our levees are, and drinking water systems all over the country are badly outdated. Sadly, at a time when we could use significant new investment in infrastructure, our spending on infrastructure is actually way down. Back during the 50s and the 60s, the U.S. was spending between 3 and 4 percent of GDP on infrastructure. Today, that figure is down to about 2.4 percent. But of course we don't have any extra money to spend on infrastructure because of our reckless spending and because of the massive amount of debt that we have accumulated. While the Obama administration is spending more than half a million dollars to figure out why chimpanzees throw poop, our national infrastructure is literally falling apart all around us. Once upon a time nobody else on the planet could match our infrastructure, and now we are in the process of becoming a joke to the rest of the world. The following are 21 facts about America's failing infrastructure that will blow your mind.... #1 The American Society of Civil Engineers has given America's crumbling infrastructure an overall grade of D. #2 There are simply not enough roads in the United States today. Each year, traffic jams cost the commuters of America 4.2 billion hours and about 2.8 million gallons of gasoline. #3 It is being projected that Americans will spend an average of 160 hours stuck in traffic annually by the year 2035. #4 Approximately one-third of all roads in the United States are in substandard condition. #5 Close to a third of all highway fatalities are due "to substandard road conditions, obsolete road designs, or roadside hazards." #6 One out of every four bridges in America either carries more traffic than originally intended or is in need of repair. #7 Repairing all of the bridges in the United States that need repair would take approximately 140 billion dollars. #8 According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, our decaying transportation system costs the U.S. economy about 78 billion dollars annually in lost time and fuel. #9 All over America, asphalt roads are being ground up and are being replaced with gravel roads because they are cheaper to maintain. The state of South Dakota has transformed over 100 miles of asphalt roads into gravel roads, and 38 out of the 83 counties in the state of Michigan have transformed at least some of their asphalt roads into gravel roads. #10 There are 4,095 dams in the United States that are at risk of failure. That number has risen by more than 100 percent since 1999. #11 Of all the dam failures that have happened in the United States since 1874, a third of them have happened during the past decade. #12 Close to half of all U.S. households do not have access to bus or rail transit. #13 Our aging sewer systems spill more than a trillion gallons of untreated sewage every single year. The cost of cleaning up that sewage each year is estimated to be greater than 50 billion dollars. #14 It is estimated that rolling blackouts and inefficiencies in the U.S. electrical grid cost the U.S. economy approximately 80 billion dollars a year. #15 It is being projected that by the year 2020 every single major container port in the United States will be handling at least double the volume that it was originally designed to handle. #16 All across the United States, conditions at many of our state parks, recreation areas and historic sites are deplorable at best. Some states have backlogs of repair projects that are now over a billion dollars long.... More than a dozen states estimate that their backlogs are at least $100 million. Massachusetts and New York's are at least $1 billion. Hawaii officials called park conditions "deplorable" in a December report asking for $50 million per year for five years to tackle a $240 million backlog that covers parks, trails and harbors. #17 Today, the U.S. spends about 2.4 percent of GDP on infrastructure. Meanwhile, China spends about 9 percent of GDP on infrastructure. #18 In the United States today, approximately 16 percent of our construction workers are unemployed. #19 China has plans to build 55,000 miles of highways by the year 2020. If all of those roads were put end to end, it would be longer than the total length of the entire U.S. interstate system. #20 The World Economic Forum ranks U.S. infrastructure 23rd in the world, and we fall a little bit farther behind the rest of the developed world every single day. #21 It has been projected that it would take 2.2 trillion dollars over the next 5 years just to repair our existing infrastructure. That does not even include a single penny for badly needed new infrastructure. So where did we go wrong? Well, one of the big problems is that we have become a very materialistic society that is obsessed with short-term thinking. Investing in infrastructure is something that has long-term benefits, but these days Americans tend to only be focused on what is happening right now and most politicians are only focused on the next election cycle. Another major problem is that there is so much corruption and waste in our system these days. The government certainly spends more than enough money, but very little of that money is spent wisely. A lot of the money that could be going toward rebuilding our infrastructure is being poured down the toilet instead. For much more on this, please read my previous article entitled "16 Sickening Facts That Show How Members Of Congress And Federal Workers Are Living The High Life At Your Expense". Unfortunately, it is probably appropriate that our infrastructure is decaying because we are decaying in just about every other way that it is possible for a society to decay. We are decaying economically, politically, mentally, emotionally, physically, morally and spiritually. We are a complete and total mess. So why shouldn't what is happening to our infrastructure on the outside match what is happening to us as a nation on the inside? And sadly, we simply do not have the money that we need for infrastructure because of all the debt that we have piled up. The federal government, our state governments and our local governments are all struggling to stay afloat in an ocean of red ink, and unfortunately that means that spending on infrastructure is likely to be cut even more in the years ahead. So get used to rotting, crumbling, decaying infrastructure. What you see out there right now is only just the beginning.

Alt cause – climate change will put houses and businesses at risk – harms the economy
Schwartz [1AC Author – Capitol/BxSci] 11 [Henry G. Schwartz, Jr., NAE, Consultant Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “Adapting to Climate Change: Another Challenge for the Transportation Community”, http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf, pp. 27-36]
Rising sea levels will place people, homes, businesses, and infrastructure at risk, especially along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts and Alaska. Coupled with land subsidence, prevalent in many areas such as the Gulf Coast, the impacts will be felt tens of miles inland. More intense hurricanes packing higher wind speeds coming on shore on higher sea levels are a recipe for even greater disaster. Efforts to restore barrier islands to protect the mainland will be extensive and expensive. Sea walls along miles of shoreline may protect densely populated areas, but relocation inland of some communities may well be necessary. Transportation systems must be designed to permit faster and orderly evacuation of coastal communities. Are there new structural and nonstructural solutions to these problems? Can more resilient systems be developed that can withstand a certain amount of inundation during high storm surges, but restore service and utility rapidly?

Climate change will destroy real estate – costs billions
Smith [1AC Author – Capitol] 10 [March 2010, Pew Center for Global Climate Change, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Stratus Consulting Inc, Terri L. Cruce and Stephen Seidel Heather A. Holsinger Pew Center On Global Climate Change, “Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership”, http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf]
H<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">ow much U.S. economic activity is vulnerable to climate? According to a National Center for Atmospheric Research working paper, between 3% and 4% of the U.S. economy is sensitive to weather variability, which can lead to a variation of $470 billion in gross domestic product (GDP) per year (Lazo et al., 2009). This impact can be more significant when considering all climate impacts and not just weather variability. It can also be more significant for specific regions. For example, the Economics of Climate Adaptation Working Group estimated the potential economic losses from hurricanes in three Florida counties: Palm Beach, Broward, and Miami-Dade. They found that losses could be more than $30 billion by 2030, which would represent nearly 10% of the three counties’ GDP. Additionally, they found that if these three counties implemented adaptive measures such as beach nourishment, home improvements, and barriers to water intrusion, they could reduce these losses by about 40% (Climate Works Foundation et al., 2009). The draft California Climate Adaptation Strategy cites $2.5 trillion of real estate assets at risk from extreme weather events, sea level rise, and wildfires, with a projected annual cost of up to $3.9 billion per year over this century (State of California, 2009). </span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Econ collapse doesn’t cause war – empirics </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Miller 2K (Morris Miller, economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, Winter 2000, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol. 25, Iss. 4, “Poverty as a cause of wars?” p. Proquest) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">The question may be reformulated. Do wars spring from a popular reaction to a sudden economic crisis that exacerbates poverty and growing disparities in wealth and incomes? Perhaps one could argue, as some scholars do, that it is some dramatic event or sequence of such events leading to the exacerbation of poverty that, in turn, leads to this deplorable denouement. This exogenous factor might act as a catalyst for a violent reaction on the part of the people or on the part of the political leadership who would then possibly be tempted to seek a diversion by finding or, if need be, fabricating an enemy and setting in train the process leading to war. According to a study undertaken by Minxin Pei and Ariel Adesnik of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, there would not appear to be any merit in this hypothesis. After studying ninety-three episodes of economic crisis in twenty-two countries in Latin America and Asia in the years since the Second World War they concluded that:19 Much of the conventional wisdom about the political impact of economic crises may be wrong ... The severity of economic crisis - as measured in terms of inflation and negative growth - bore no relationship to the collapse of regimes ... (or, in democratic states, rarely) to an outbreak of violence ... In the cases of dictatorships and semidemocracies, the ruling elites responded to crises by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another). </span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Congestion is structurally inevitable </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Anthony Downs, October 1st, 2004 (Senior Fellow @ Brookings, scholar in public policy and public administration, “Why Traffic Congestion Is Here to Stay… and Will Get Worse,” http://www.uctc.net/access/25/Access%2025%20-%2004%20-%20Traffic%20Congestion%20is%20Here%20to%20Stay.pdf >:) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">EVERYONE HATES TRAFFIC CONGESTION. But despite all attempted remedies, it keeps getting worse. Why don’t they do something about it? The answer: because rising traffic congestion is an inescapable condition in all large and growing metropolitan areas across the world, from Los Angeles to Tokyo, from Cairo to São Paulo. Peak-hour traffic congestion is a result of the way modern societies operate, and of residents’ habits that cause them to overload roads and transit systems every day. Traffic congestion is not essentially a problem. It’s the solution to our basic mobility problem, which is that too many people want to move at the same times each day. Efficient operation of the economy and our school systems requires that people go to work, go to school, and run errands during about the same hours so they can interact with each other. We cannot alter that basic requirement without crippling our economy and society. This problem marks every major metropolitan area in the world. In the United States, the vast majority of people wanting to move during rush hours use private vehicles, for two reasons. One is that most Americans reside in low-density settlements that public transit cannot serve effectively. Second, for most people private vehicles are more comfortable, faster, more private, more convenient in trip timing, and more flexible than public transit. Therefore, around the world, as household incomes rise, more and more people shift from less expensive public modes to privately owned cars and trucks. With 87.9 percent of America’s daily commuters using private vehicles, and millions wanting to move at the same times of day, our basic mobility problem is this: the road system does not have enough capacity to handle peak-hour loads without forcing people to wait in line for limited road space. “Waiting in line” is the definition of congestion. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Trade doesn’t decrease risk of conflict </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Gelpi and Greico 05, Associate Professor and Professor of Political Science, Duke University (Christopher, Joseph, “Democracy, Interdependence, and the Sources of the Liberal Peace”, Journal of Peace Research) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">As we have already emphasized, increasing levels of trade between an autocratic and democratic country are unlikely to constrain the former from initiating militarized disputes against the latter. As depicted in Figure 1, our analysis indicates that an increase in trade dependence by an autocratic challenger on a democratic target from zero to 5% of the former's GDP would increase the probability of the challenger’s dispute initiation from about 0.31% to 0.29%. Thus, the overall probability of dispute initiation by an autocratic country against a democracy is fairly high (given the rarity of disputes) at 23 nearly .3% per country per year. Moreover, increased trade does little or nothing to alter that risk. Increases in trade dependence also have little effect on the likelihood that one autocracy will initiate a conflict with another. In this instance, the probability of dispute initiation remains constant at 0.33% regardless of the challenger’s level of trade dependence. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Collapse stops war – forces refocus </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Bennett and Nordstrom, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State, 2k [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, February, Ebsco] </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">In this analysis, we focus on using economic conditions to understand when rivalries are likely to escalate or end. Rivalries are an appropriate set of cases to use when examining substitutability both because leaders in rival states have clearly substitutable choices and because rivalries are a set of cases in which externalization is a particularly plausible policy option.7 In particular, when confronted with domestic problems, leaders in a rivalry have the clear alternatives of escalating the conflict with the rival to divert attention or to work to settle the rivalry as a means of freeing up a substantial amount of resources that can be directed toward solving internal problems. In the case of the diversion option, rivals provide logical, believable actors for leaders to target; the presence of a clear rival may offer unstable elites a particularly inviting target for hostile statements or actual conflict as necessary. The public and relevant elites already consider the rival a threat or else the rivalry would not have continued for an extended period; the presence of disputed issues also provides a casus belli with the rival that is always present. Rivals also may provide a target where the possible costs and risks of externalization are relatively controlled. If the goal is diversion, leaders willwant to divert attention without provoking an actual (and expensive)war. Over the course of many confrontations, rival states may learn to anticipate response patterns, leading to safer disputes or at least to leaders believing that they can control the risks of conflict when they initiate a new confrontation. In sum, rivals provide good targets for domestically challenged political leaders. This leads to our first hypothesis, which is as follows: Hypothesis 1: Poor economic conditions lead to diversionary actions against the rival. Conflict settlement is also a distinct route to dealing with internal problems that leaders in rivalries may pursue when faced with internal problems. Military competition between states requires large amounts of resources, and rivals require even more attention. Leaders may choose to negotiate a settlement that ends a rivalry to free up important resources that may be reallocated to the domestic economy. In a “guns versus butter” world of economic trade-offs, when a state can no longer afford to pay the expenses associated with competition in a rivalry, it is quite rational for leaders to reduce costs by ending a rivalry. This gain (a peace dividend) could be achieved at any time by ending a rivalry. However, such a gain is likely to be most important and attractive to leaders when internal conditions are bad and the leader is seeking ways to alleviate active problems. Support for policy change away from continued rivalry is more likely to develop when the economic situation sours and elites and masses are looking for ways to improve a worsening situation. It is at these times that the pressure to cut military investment will be greatest and that state leaders will be forced to recognize the difficulty of continuing to pay for a rivalry. Among other things, this argument also encompasses the view that the cold war ended because the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics could no longer compete economically with the United States. Hypothesis 2: Poor economic conditions increase the probability of rivalry termination. Hypotheses 1 and 2 posit opposite behaviors in response to a single cause (internal economic problems). As such, they demand a research design that can account for substitutability between them. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Heg is unsustainable – emerging powers, wealth transfer, and nonstate actors </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">US National Intel Council Report, ‘08 (National Intelligence Council, U.S. National Intelligence Agency Mid-Term and Long-Term Thinking, Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World, p.vi) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">The international system—as constructed following the Second World War—will be almost unrecognizable by 2025 owing to the rise of emerging powers, a globalizing economy, an historic transfer of relative wealth and economic power from West to East, and the growing influence of nonstate actors. By 2025, the international system will be a global multipolar one with gaps in national power continuing to narrow between developed and developing countries. Concurrent with the shift in power among nation-states, the relative power of various nonstate actors—including businesses, tribes, religious organizations, and criminal networks—is increasing. The players are changing, but so too are the scope and breadth of transnational issues important for continued global prosperity. Aging populations in the developed world; growing energy, food, and water constraints; and worries about climate change will limit and diminish what will still be an historically unprecedented age of prosperity. Historically, emerging multipolar systems have been more unstable than bipolar or unipolar ones. Despite the recent financial volatility—which could end up accelerating many ongoing trends—we do not believe that we are headed toward a complete breakdown of the international system, as occurred in 1914-1918 when an earlier phase of globalization came to a halt. However, the next 20 years of transition to a new system are fraught with risks. Strategic rivalries are most likely to revolve around trade, investments, and technological innovation and acquisition, but we cannot rule out a 19th century-like scenario of arms races, territorial expansion, and military rivalries. This is a story with no clear outcome, as illustrated by a series of vignettes we use to map out divergent futures. Although the United States is likely to remain the single most powerful actor, the United States’ relative strength—even in the military realm—will decline and US leverage will become more constrained. At the same time, the extent to which other actors—both state and nonstate—will be willing or able to shoulder increased burdens is unclear. Policymakers and publics will have to cope with a growing demand for multilateral cooperation when the international system will be stressed by the incomplete transition from the old to a still-forming new order. Economic Growth Fueling Rise of Emerging Players In terms of size, speed, and directional flow, the transfer of global wealth and economic power now under way—roughly from West to East—is without precedent in modern history. This shift derives from two sources. First, increases in oil and commodity prices have generated windfall profits for the Gulf states and Russia. Second, lower costs combined with government policies have shifted the locus of manufacturing and some service industries to Asia. Growth projections for Brazil, Russia, India, and China (the BRICs) indicate they will collectively match the original G-7’s share of global GDP by 2040-2050. China is poised to have more impact on the world over the next 20 years than any other country. If current trends persist, by 2025 China will have the world’s second largest economy and will be a leading military power. It also could be the largest importer of natural resources and the biggest polluter. India probably will continue to enjoy relatively rapid economic growth and will strive for a multipolar world in which New Delhi is one of the poles. China and India must decide the extent to which they are willing and capable of playing increasing global roles and how each will relate to the other. Russia has the potential to be richer, more powerful, and more self-assured in 2025 if it invests in human capital, expands and diversifies its economy, and integrates with global markets. On the other hand, Russia could experience a significant decline if it fails to take these steps and oil and gas prices remain in the $50-70 per barrel range. No other countries are projected to rise to the level of China, India, or Russia, and none is likely to match their individual global clout. We expect, however, to see the political and economic power of other countries—such as Indonesia, Iran, and Turkey—increase. For the most part, China, India, and Russia are not following the Western liberal model for selfdevelopment but instead are using a different model, “state capitalism.” State capitalism is a loose term used to describe a system of economic management that gives a prominent role to the state. Other rising powers—South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore—also used state capitalism to develop their economies. However, the impact of Russia, and particularly China, following this path is potentially much greater owing to their size and approach to “democratization.” We remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for greater democratization, even though advances are likely to be slow and globalization is subjecting many recently democratized countries to increasing social and economic pressures with the potential to undermine liberal institutions.</span>

===hegemony advantage=== 
====1nc heg f/l==== 

The use of precision air strikes assumes accurate battlefield information about targets—this is impossible and attempts to achieve it risk war
Gentry 3 analyst with the Center for Integrated Intelligence Systems [John, Parameters, “Doomed to Fail: America’s Blind Faith in Military Technology,” http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/02winter/gentry.htm]
Erroneous notion of the value of data. Explicit in DOD’s definition of information superiority is a belief that the acquisition and transmission of information alone produce military power. This is not true. Troops must acquire adequate background knowledge and understanding of their areas of responsibility before they deploy in order to be able to convert the incremental bits that their sensors and other intelligence sources give them into useful information. US troops rarely make such preparations. The military seldom performs even the second-best solutions of assigning functional experts to commanders’ staffs. As a result, personnel unfamiliar with their operational surroundings chronically are overwhelmed with data and intelligence analyses because they cannot distinguish important messages from fluff. Worse, they sometimes are content to ignore the information and expert advice that are available to them.38 Area experts, by contrast, often lament shortages of useful information because they understand the limitations of the reporting they receive and know what they need to understand local complexities. Awareness of local conditions is important even for warfighters in conventional operations. US troops deal with coalition partners, local politicians, and civilians who have agendas. They must understand the military consequences of the political aims and tactics of their enemies, and appreciate the diplomatic consequences of their own actions. The information needs of military forces vary greatly according to their size, organization, training, doctrine, and objectives. Well-trained special operations forces, including terrorists, usually need little real-time communications because they typically decentralize control of operations. The 11 September hijackers evidently communicated little but were “superior” that day. By contrast, forces with large support tails may need volumes of communications. The US military uses huge PowerPoint briefings, with fancy graphics on each slide, to conduct basic command and control; it requires substantial IT and communications resources just to muddle along. Thus, the United States can have massive information superiority as measured by the volume of data collected and communicated, but be far less operationally effective than its enemies. The creation of large sensor and communications capabilities requires US military dominance over large parts of world. The pursuit of dominance now is widely called American “hegemony” and is widely resented—by states like China and also by friends and allies. The quest for information superiority is consequently both exacerbating world tensions and increasing DOD’s conviction that it needs such alleged superiority. It is a spiral that threatens to become increasingly expensive, both financially and politically, and may contribute to the outbreak of hostilities.39 1.

Airpower puts Pakistani stability on the brink
Plett 08 (Barbara Plett, BBC News, “Pakistan fears over US air raids”, Staff writer for BBC, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/7505760.stm)
US air strikes in Pakistan's troubled tribal belt are "seriously undermining" public support for the government, a senior official has told the BBC. North West Frontier Province governor Owais Ghani said such actions could make it impossible for the government to keep struggling against militancy. The US is frustrated with what they see as insufficient efforts by Islamabad to fight militants on the Afghan border. That has fuelled Pakistani concerns of increased US intervention. Al-Qaeda targets Mr Ghani said that he would be "deeply concerned" about any increase in unilateral US airstrikes in tribal areas. "This has a great backlash in the public sentiment, public opinion," he said. "It seriously undermines the much needed backing of the population.

2. Pakistan Instability triggers Indo-Pak war
Bajoria 07 (Jayshree Bajoria, “Pakistan’s Tremors worry India”, November 14th, 2007, CFR Writer, http://www.cfr.org/publication/14801/pakistans_tremors_worry_india.html)
India and Pakistan have fought four wars against each other and came very close to a fifth after the terrorist attack on the Indian parliament in December 2001. Both Pakistan’s President Pervez Musharraf and India’s Prime Minister Manmohan Singh are credited with easing tensions and improving cross-border relations through peace talks. But India remains vulnerable to any instability in Pakistan, especially in Kashmir, where militant groups continue to operate. According to Indian media reports (Times Now), political uncertainty in Pakistan “has led to an escalation in infiltration and consequently militancy in Jammu and Kashmir.” Indian troops along the Line of Control in Kashmir as well as in other northwestern Indian states along the Pakistani border were placed on high alert soon after Musharraf declared emergency. The Times of India quoted a senior officer of the Indian army registering concern about renewed militancy in Kashmir “to placate hardliners upset with the military action being taken against Islamic fundamentalists in the tribal areas of Pakistan bordering Afghanistan.” But Pakistan’s Foreign Minister denied any recent increase (IANS) in infiltration across the border into India.

3. Indo-Pak war causes nuclear extinction
Fai 01 (Ghulam Nabi Fai; Kashmiri American Council; July 8, 2001, Washington Times)
The foreign policy of the United States in South Asia should move from the lackadaisical and distant (with India crowned with a unilateral veto power) to aggressive involvement at the vortex. The most dangerous place on the planet is Kashmir, a disputed territory convulsed and illegally occupied for more than 53 years and sandwiched between nuclear-capable India and Pakistan. It has ignited two wars between the estranged South Asian rivals in 1948 and 1965, and a third could trigger nuclear volleys and a nuclear winter threatening the entire globe. The United States would enjoy no sanctuary.

Racism – air power is a formed of ‘armed racism’ used to carry out mass slaughter
Mizgîn Rastî, July 9th, 2007 (“Air Power, Racism and the PKK,” http://rastibini.blogspot.com/2007/07/air-power-racism-and-pkk.html >:)
There's a really good article at Mother Jones today, by Tom Engelhardt, on American air power. After a brief history of the effects of air power in Indochina, the article recounts some of the recent "mistakes" suffered by Afghanis, thanks to the application of air power, which "have, in fact, become so commonplace that, in the news, they begin to blur into what looks, more and more, like a single, ongoing airborne slaughter of civilians." In case you missed the news on any of that, a partial list of some of the more recent "mistakes" is given, including some that have taken place in Iraq, along with a short rundown of the air wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The only problem with the article in all this counting and recounting is the absence of any mention of last December's American air war in Somalia. But in the case of Somalia, after thousands of civilians fled toward Kenya from the American-backed Ethiopian invasion, US Özel Timler were flown into the area with the orders, as reported at the link, "Kill anyone still alive and leave no unidentified bodies behind." American intelligence had said that somewhere in all the civilian carnage were three--count 'em, three--al-Qaeda types. I guess this is supposed to be an illustration of the saying, "Kill them all; Let god sort them out." Finally, Englehardt, back at Mother Jones, comes to his conclusion: This [civilian dead "including women and children"] is not an aberrant side effect of air war but its heart and soul. The airplane is a weapon of war, but it is also a weapon of terror -- and it is meant to be. From the beginning, it was used not to "win over" enemy populations -- after all, how could that be done from the distant skies? -- but to crush or terrorize them into submission. (It has seldom worked that way.) [ . . . ] We in the U.S. recognize butchery when we see it -- the atrocity of the car bomb, the chlorine-gas truck bomb, the beheading. These acts are obviously barbaric in nature. But our favored way of war -- war from a distance -- has, for us, been pre-cleansed of barbarism. Or rather its essential barbarism has been turned into a set of "errant incidents," of "accidents," of "mistakes" repeatedly made over more than six decades. Air power is, in the military itself, little short of a religion of force, impermeable to reason, to history, to examples of what it does (and what it is incapable of doing). It is in our interest not to see air war as a -- possibly the -- modern form of barbarism. Let's not forget that there have been a number of "friendly fire" incidents as a result of the American use of air power in Iraq, including that of pêşmerge special forces and a British army convoy in 2003, and that of PUK pêşmerge earlier this year who were taken to be al-Qaeda by American pilots . . . even though the US military was well aware of the PUK checkpoint near Mûsil, where the slaughter took place. As a dutiful lapdog, Turkey follows the US lead, including the use of air power. Everyone knows that American aircraft in the service of the Paşas was used to bomb South Kurdistani civilians ("including women and children") throughout the years of the very ironically named "safe haven." In fact, the Paşas were running the entire Operation Northern Watch show, and whenever they felt like bombing more Kurdish civilians ("including women and children"), British and American pilots obligingly followed orders to vacate air space for incoming Turkish missions. The pretext for Turkey's slaughter of Kurds was its obsession with "crushing" PKK . . . as if such a thing could ever happen. But, as Engelhardt so correctly points out at Mother Jones, quoting a British officer who had served in Afghanistan, "Every civilian dead means five new Taliban." We might also say, "Every civilian dead means five new gerîlas," and we might begin to say so now that we have a new OHAL and new bombing. As reported in Zaman: A soldier was killed in a mine attack by Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) terrorists in Uludere district of Şırnak province -- in response fighter jets are aiding increased operations with aerial support. [ . . . ] Fighter jets from Second Tactical Air Command are supporting the operations from the air, bombing nonstop the points where the terrorists are thought to be located. Are those really terrorists? Or are they civilians? No doubt they are using the same kind of American aircraft that Lockheed Martin's PKK coordinator recently sold to Turkey. No doubt, too, in any invasion of South Kurdistan--in yet another vain attempt to "crush" the PKK--the Ankara regime will continue to behave like a good lapdog and follow the "American attitude towards air power" air war, yet again resulting in the slaughter of Kurdish civilians ("including women and children"). It might be argued by these "civilized" warmongers that they use the tools of "distant war" (aircraft, artillery, missiles, etc.) because they want to keep their own kind safe, thus reducing their casualties. However, I tend to think that Engelhardt hit the nail squarely on the head when he raises the issue of racism in connection with air war: Since 1945, American air power has regularly been used to police the imperial borders of the planet. (Serbia in 1999 was the sole exception to this rule.) As Afghan President Karzai put the matter in response to recent reports of civilian casualties in his country: "We want to cooperate with the international community. It has, that is, been released against people of color, against what used to be called the Third World. We are thankful for their help to Afghanistan, but that does not mean that Afghan lives have no value. Afghan life is not cheap and it should not be treated as such." (His bitter comment eerily reflects another from the Vietnam era, more than thirty years gone. "The Oriental doesn't put the same high price on life as does a Westerner. Life is plentiful. Life is cheap in the Orient" -- so said former commander of U.S. forces in Vietnam General William Westmoreland in 1974.) It may be that American administrations would have been no less willing to release their bombs and missiles on white noncombatant populations (as was the case with Germany in World War II); but it can at least be said that, for the last half-century-plus, air power has functionally acted as an armed form of racism, that the sense of "their lives" as cheaper, even if seldom spoken aloud, has made it easier to use the helicopter, the bomber, the Hellfire-missile-armed Predator drone. The fact is that air war always cheapens human life. After all, from the heights, if seen at all, people must have something of the appearance of scurrying insects. It is the nature of such war, and an ingrained racism, seldom mentioned any more, only adds to it. Certainly, the Ankara regime is well qualified to be called a racist regime. It has been official Turkish state racism that has attempted to deny and wipe out the existence of Kurds for the last 84 years. It was official Turkish state racism that prompted Erdoğan to state just a few years ago that he would oppose an independent Kurdistan even if it were in Argentina. It is official Turkish state racism that has refused to extend an official invitation to the president of Iraq--a Kurd. It is official Turkish state racism that fuels Ankara regime officials to refer to South Kurdistani leaders as "tribal chiefs." And it is this same racism that the US, NATO, and the international community have actively supported for decades, with no chance of change in sight. The real barbarians have not gotten it through their fat heads that the blood of Kurdish şehîds--including gerîla and civilian, including young and old, including women and children--is the seed of coming generations of Kurdish freedom fighters.

==eram neg== 
===multifunction phased array radar=== 
====1nc mpar==== 

**[CP TEXT: United States federal government should invest in a network of multifunction phased-array radars for air traffic control using a risk-reduction implementation strategy.]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**CP solves best by improving ground-based radar systems – our evidence is comparative**
Tracy **Wallace**, August 3rd, 20**12** (GTRI researcher, “Radar Renewal: Phased Array Technology Could Improve Reliability, Capabilities of Air Traffic Control System,” http://www.gtri.gatech.edu/casestudy/gtri-radar-renewal-phased-array-MPAR-technology >:)
Aircraft operating in [...] affordable and effective."

===china cyber-warfare=== 
====1nc ccw==== 

**Chinese cyberattacks on US satellites coming now**
**<span class="Cite">Coleman ’10</span>**
(Kevin Coleman a senior fellow at the Technolytics Institute, former chief strategist at Netscape and an adviser on cyber warfare and security., 9/22/10, “Satellites could come under cyber siege”)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Our nation’s defense [...] after the fact.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Status quo radars are resistant to jamming and spoofing, but NextGen technology is uniquely vulnerable – attacks cause miscalc which escalates – independently turns case**</span>
**Greenberg**, July 25th, **12** (Forbes Staff, “Next-Gen Air Traffic Control Vulnerable to Hackers Spoofing Planes Out of Thin Air,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/andygreenberg/2012/07/25/next-gen-air-traffic-control-vulnerable-to-hackers-spoofing-planes-out-of-thin-air/ >:)
A hacker attack [...] done it yet."

**The impact is nuclear retaliation**
**Lawson**, Ph.D. in Information Warfare and Assistant Professor of Communication @ the University of Utah, **09**, “Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation”
So, from a [...] or greater seriousness."

**Extinction**
**<span class="Cite">Straits Times 2K</span>**
(6-25-2000, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan,” p L/N, NJ)
Conflict on such [...] above everything else.

==bcc neg== 
===anthropocentrism=== 
====1nc anthro==== 

**The horrific experiences of the disposable populations of Katrina is nothing new. The human heritage is one of pure destruction. From our birth we domesticated and slaughtered our non-human brothers and sisters immediately followed by an eradication of the Neanderthals, and today we continue that legacy through an ongoing extermination of all life on Earth, both human and non-human of all races and genders.**
Tarik **Kochi and** Noam **Ordan ‘8** *a lecturer in the School of Law @ Queen’s University, Northern Ireland. a linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, Israel. [Borderlands VOLUME 7 NUMBER 3, 2008, An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity]
Within the picture [...] standpoint in thought.

**Transportation infrastructure instrumentalizes the environment for solely human ends—This reinforces our separation from the ecological systems in which we participate, ensuring catastrophic collapse.**
**Duyser ‘10**
Mitchell Duyser. Master of Architecture at University of Cincinnati. April 2010. “Hybrid Landscapes: Territories of Shared Ecological and Infrastructural Value”. Masters Thesis.Pages 3-7.
The construct of [...] civilization with ecology.

**Thus, we offer a new pedagogy which interrogates the speciesist assumptions underpinning the 1AC’s speciesist examination of the underpinnings of the disposable populations as seen through the transportation infrastructure employed during the Hurricane Katrina evacuation.**

**Their response to Hurricane Katrina is a way of shielding anthropocentric culture – this is immoral and error replication – we agree that race and Katrina may be intertwined, but they have the wrong starting point. Interrogation of humanism is a pre-requisite.**
**Irvine 06**** Leslie Irvine, Ph.D. in sociology and teaches at the University of Colorado, Boulder. Her research examines relationships between people and companion animals, animal sheltering, and animals in disasters “Animals in Disasters: Issues for Animal Liberation Activism and Policy”
Because institutional thinking [...] once again prevail.

===demause=== 
====1nc demause==== 

**Focus on evacuation infrastructure masks the structural issues of racism and poverty in New Orleans – ignores the root of the problem -- turns case**
Neil **deMause**, July/August 20**06** (columnist for Metro NY and a regular contributor to Extra! and the Village Voice, “Katrina’s Vanishing Victims,” http://www.fair.org/index.php?page=2933 >:)
It doesn't help [...] poor to begin with?'"

==disabilities neg== 
===economic development programs=== 
====1nc edf==== 

**[CP TEXT: United States federal government should substantially increase economic development programs for people including but not limited to those with disabilities.]**

**We'll clarify.**

**New development helps the disabled gain jobs**
**King** 20**11** [Christopher, Director of the Ray Marshall Center for the Study of Human Resources at the University of Texas at Austin, and holds the 2005-2006 Mike Hogg Professorship in Urban Management at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, “Integrating Job Opportunities for People with Disabilities into State and Regional Economic and Workforce Development Strategies” January. In Brief.http://www.dol.gov/odep/categories/workforce/NTARBrief7.pdf=]
State and regional [...] basic organizing principles.

**Increasing integration helps stimulate the economy and resolves poverty**
**DeRose 7/18**/12 [Rodger, president and CEO of Kessler Foundation, a New Jersey-based group that funds medical research and innovative programs to expand opportunities for job training and employment for people with disabilities, the single largest minority in the nation, Disability should not be deterrent to job market, The Hill, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/healthcare/238691-disability-should-not-be-deterrent-to-job-market=]
Recently, entertainment personality [...] could be enormous

===gentrification=== 
====1nc gentrification==== 

**Low housing prices now – fluctuations inevitable but new construction destabilizes the prices**
**Glaeser 5/29** [Edward. Bloomberg View columnist – prof. of econ at Harvard. “Low, Stable Housing Prices: What’s Not to Like?” Bloomberg. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/low-stable-housing-prices-what-s-not-to-like-.html/accessed: 7/30/12=]
Although a new [...] lower housing prices.

**New transportation infrastructure triggers gentrification – lack of auto transport shifts suburb residents**
**Martin** 20**10** (Gerg St. Martin, Writer for Coalition on Sustainable Transportation, New Transit May Cause Unintended Gentrification, http://www.costaustin.org/jskaggs/?p=1333 DM)
A Northeastern report [...] housing, researchers said.

**An increase in housing-prices will cause people living in poverty to greater subjugation and causes racism**
**Sanchez at al 03** (Thomas W. Sanchez, Rich Stolz, and Jacinta S. Ma, homas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities” DM)
Another housing-related impact [...] gentrification and displacement.

**Opposing racism is the precondition to moral coherence**
Albert **Memmi,** 20**00**, Racism, p. 159-161
Evidently, I am [...] like a beast.

===case=== 
====1nc solvency==== 

**The real problem isn’t the infrastructure but the operators**
Ivonne **Audirac**, Florida State University, 5/16/20**08** [“Accessing Transit as Universal Design”, Journal of Planning Literature 2008, Sage Journals, http://jpl.sagepub.com/content/23/1/4.full.pdf+html]
Operator-based social [...] and socioorganizational components.

**The aff’s steps to deal with disabilities further destroys the sexuality of disabled women**
**Tilley, 96** (Christine M. Tilley, Lecturer, School of Information Systems, Queensland University of Technology, GPO Box 2434, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia 4001. Mrs. Tilley has a disability.) (Sexuality in Women with Physical Disabilities: A Social Justice or Health Issue?, http://www.springerlink.com/content/614751204729426l/fulltext.pdf, 1996)
Sexuality is an [...] disability implied asexuality.

**Can’t solve—ableism inevitable in structure of society**
**Tilley, 96** (Christine M. Tilley, Lecturer, School of Information Systems, Queensland University of Technology, GPO Box 2434, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia 4001. Mrs. Tilley has a disability.) (Sexuality in Women with Physical Disabilities: A Social Justice or Health Issue?, http://www.springerlink.com/content/614751204729426l/fulltext.pdf, 1996)
DISABILITY AND HUMAN [...] and disability rights.

==clean mass transit neg== 
===woan=== 
====1nc woan==== 

**The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of the subjugation of raced bodies.**
**Brenman ‘7** [Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]
Three major kinds [...] and regressive taxes.

**The aff’s use of mass transit systems funded by taxes will be used to defuse anti race movements and further oppress the people they try to help**
**Baca** (Assistant Professor of Anthropology at Goucher College) 20**09**
(George, “Neoliberalism and stories of racial redemption,” http://www.springerlink.com/content/531j34114778h706/fulltext.pdf, January 27th 2009)
In the vacuum [...] the business coalition.

**Second is the Racist State - The affirmative relies on the government for solutions – this creates an illusion that we are making progressive action, and colonizes our education – reform will inevitably lead to the further retrenchment of racism**
**Woan** (Master of Arts in Philosophy, Politics, and Law in the Graduate School of Binghamton University) 20**11**
(Tansy, “The value of resistance in a permanently white, civil society,” http://gradworks.umi.com/14/96/1496586.html, August 2011, pg 9-19)
Stokely Carmichael and [...] of racial politics.

**This flips all their education arguments – regardless of how they articulate their micro-level demand, their discourse is inexorably tied with the macro structures of whiteness.**
Pierre **Schlag**, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 19**90**, “Normative and Nowhere to Go,” Lexis-Nexis
All of this [...] logic of institutions.

**The very possibility of ethics and freedom resides in a rejection of the affirmative’s ratification of democracy, the state and civil society. Resisting the lure of white supremacy is the starting point for imagining a new world.**
**Kokontis** 20**11** (Kate, PhD in Performance Studies from UC-Berkeley, “Performative Returns and the Rememory of History: genealogy and performativity in the American racial state,” Dissertation available on Proquest)
On one hand, [...] absence and loss.

====2nc wynter==== 

**Global Warming is not caused by humans writ large—it is caused by the uneven development engendered by Whiteness. The affirmative naturalizes the coercive racial politics at the heart of warming by universalizing its source and projecting its impacts far into the future. The imperial West started the process of warming, and the American racial state perpetuated it in the quest to export Whiteness. The affirmative only notices warming when it might destroy white bodies, invisibilizing millions of non-whites already killed.**
**Wynter 2007** (Sylvia, Professor Emeritus in Spanish and Romance Languages at Stanford Univeristy, “The Human being as noun? Or being human as praxis? Towards the Autopoietic turn/overturn: A Manifesto,” otl2.wikispaces.com/file/view/The+Autopoetic+Turn.pdf)
For if, as [...] [West's] Industrial Revolution

===organic farming=== 
====1nc organic farming==== 

**[CP TEXT: As a recognition of institutional racism in status quo government climate denial, Vikram and I advocate that the United States federal government should shift agricultural incentives from commodity based incentives to carbon-based incentives]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**Changing the from emphasis of incentives for commodity to carbon solves the transition to large scale organic farming – this is at no cost to the USFG**
**LaSalle and Hepperly 08** (Tim, PhD and CEO of Rodale Institute, and Paul, PhD and Director of Research and Fulbright Scholar at Rodale Institute, Rodale Institute is gives Details of research of sustainable farming practices, ‘Regenerative Organic Farming: A Solution to Global Warming’, http://www.rodaleinstitute.org/files/Rodale_Research_Paper-07_30_08.pdf, Accessed on 11-30-11//AXU)//
//Compared to expensive, [...] all over the world.//

//**Organic farming solves warming – soil carbon sequestration solves the warming better, conventional farming causes warming,**//
//**Meleca 08** (Anthony, Organic Guide Reporter and Writer, Cites a major study undertaken by the Rodale Institute, which analyzed 30 years of soil carbon data, September 5th 2008, ‘The Organic Answer to Climate Change’, http://www.organicguide.com/organic/climate-change/, Accessed on 11-29-11//AXU)
Agriculture is not [...] trapped organic matter.

===case=== 
====1nc gentrification turn==== 

**Low housing prices now – fluctuations inevitable but new construction destabilizes the prices**
**Glaeser 5/29** [Edward. Bloomberg View columnist – prof. of econ at Harvard. “Low, Stable Housing Prices: What’s Not to Like?” Bloomberg. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-29/low-stable-housing-prices-what-s-not-to-like-.html/accessed: 7/30/12=]
Although a new [...] lower housing prices.

**New transportation infrastructure triggers gentrification – lack of auto transport shifts suburb residents**
**Martin** 20**10** (Gerg St. Martin, Writer for Coalition on Sustainable Transportation, New Transit May Cause Unintended Gentrification, http://www.costaustin.org/jskaggs/?p=1333 DM)
A Northeastern report [...] housing, researchers said.

**An increase in housing-prices will cause people living in poverty to greater subjugation and causes racism**
**Sanchez at al 03** (Thomas W. Sanchez, Rich Stolz, and Jacinta S. Ma, homas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities” DM)
Another housing-related impact [...] gentrification and displacement.

====2nc solvency f/l==== 

**Their movement can’t solve: business is stronger, and longstanding features of American politics ensures their movement for change fails.**
Frances Fox **Piven** 20**01** (distinguished Professor of Political Science and Sociology at The Graduate Center, City University of New York. 577; 26 The ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Science Globalization, American Politics, and Welfare Policy)
But is it showed once again.

**No transit democracy: the system is broken**
Margaret **Okuzumi**, executive director of BayRail Alliance, 20**07** (http://urbanhabitat.org/node/317 Power and Accountability in Transit Governance. Moving the Movement for Transportation Justice Vol. 12 No. 1 Spring)
Democracy is not [...] a few hands.

**People won’t ride mass transit – requires exact change**
Steven **Dutch** (Professor of Natural and Applied Sciences, University of Wisconsin - Green Bay) “Why People Don't Use Mass Transit,” June 02, 20**10**.
Is there a [...] have this problem.

**People won’t ride mass transit – can’t bring cargo**
Steven **Dutch** (Professor of Natural and Applied Sciences, University of Wisconsin - Green Bay) “Why People Don't Use Mass Transit,” June 02, 20**10**.
In New York [...]this problem somewhat.

**People Won’t Ride - Three Reasons**
Steve **Lafleur** (policy analyst and political consultant with a Masters Degree in Political Science) “MASS TRANSIT: COULD RAISING FARES INCREASE RIDERSHIP?,” New Geography, November 24, 20**11**.
There are three [...] people; government isn't.

**Mass Transit Improvement is ineffective; too many barriers**
Kenneth A. **Small**, October 6th, 20**11**, “The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics of Urban Transit”, http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/UrbanTransportation.html
The effectiveness of [...] a rail line.

**Public Transit Fares will Be TOO HIGH for people to want to use it**
Yoni **Levinson**, April 2nd, 20**09** ecogeek.org, “Mass Transit is getting De-Railed”, http://www.ecogeek.org/automobiles/2533
Our country’s mass [...] we to do?

**Mass transit is an unattractive option to the Public**
Kenneth A. **Small**, October 6th, 20**11**, “The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics of Urban Transit”, http://www.econlib.org/library/Enc/UrbanTransportation.html
However, many rail [...] frequency of service.

**Public Transportation Unfavorable and No One Wants it**
Steve **Johnson**, Ehow contributor, May 15th, 20**12**, “Reasons Why the Public Refuses to use Public transportation, http://www.ehow.com/list_7649907_reasons-dont-use-public-transportation.html
Compared to European [...] on small streets.


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 40500.5px; width: 1px;">
__The state’s not inevitable__ – __individual rejection__ of the state __in this debate round__ solves – even if not, we have an ethical obligation to attempt the impossible – this evidence will smoke them. [read it all]
Walter <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">Block</span>**</span>, Summer 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">05</span>**</span> (Harold E. Wirth Eminent Scholar Endowed Chair and professor of economics, College of Business Administration, Loyola University, New Orleans, “Governmental Inevitability – reply to Holcombe,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://mises.org/journals/jls/19_3/19_3_4.pdf]]</span> >:)

RANDY <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">HOLCOMBE’S</span></span> “GOVERNMENT: UNNECESSARY but Inevitable” (2004) is an interesting and challenging, but ultimately fallacious, essay on government. In his <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">view</span></span>, this <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">institution is “unnecessary, but inevitable.” </span></span>I heartily agree with the former contention, but <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">adamantly reject the latter. Worse is the implication</span></span> for him of the supposed inevitability of the state: <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">Since it will come about in any case, we</span></span> men of good will <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">should strive to set one up</span></span> ourselves in cases where this has not yet come about, so that our version of it may serve to stave off a later and more virulent strain of it. Holcombe (2004, p. 326) writes: “If people create their own government preemptively, they can design a government that may be less predatory than the one that outside aggressors otherwise would impose on them.” This is akin to the cowpox smallpox technique. Infect the patient with the former, which is a mild strain, so that his white blood cells can create antibodies to fight it off; then, when the stronger smallpox attacks, the defenses would already be set up and strengthened, able to fight off the disease. (thedorsetpage 2000). In order to test <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">this hypothesis, let us apply it</span></span> not to any one nation, but <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">to the possibility of world government</span></span>. Hans-Hermann Hoppe (2004) speaks of this institution as follows: <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">Imagine a world government, democratically elected</span></span> according to the principle of one-man-one-vote on a worldwide scale. What would the probable outcome of an election be? <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">Most likely, we would get a Chinese-Indian coalition government.</span></span> And what would this government most likely decide to do in order to satisfy its supporters and be reelected? <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">The government would probably find that the so-called Western world had far too much wealth and the rest of the world, in particular China and India, had far too little, and hence, that a systematic wealth and income redistribution would be called for. According to Holcombe</span></span>’s hypothesis, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">we should forthwith, </span></span>without hesitation, immediately <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">create a world government</span></span>? <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">Why? Because if we do not, people worse than ourselves will eventually do so, and then we will be forced to suffer under their rule.</span></span> Strictly, speaking, of course, world government is unnecessary. Private defense agencies and/or individual nations are perfectly capable of providing all the defense services and “public goods” any of us require, or ever will require. But a world government is inevitable. That being the case, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">better that we install one of our own as soon as possible, than that they, the evil ones, do so. </span></span>When put in these terms, the “logic” of the <span style="background: red; mso-highlight: red;">argument is plain to see. First of</span> all, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">we have survived all these many years</span></span>, nay, centuries, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">without the benefits of any world government. It is difficult to see that it is “inevitable.”</span></span> Second, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">even if it is unavoidable</span></span>, arguendo, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">we are still required, as moral agents, to oppose this evil institution </span></span>to our utmost. After all, no man is perfect. <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">We all have flaws. In this sense, imperfection, too, is “inevitable.”</span></span> Does this mean we are somehow off the hook if we fail to ethically improve ourselves? Of course not. <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">The only proper course of action is to strive mightily against the evil in our own hearts, no matter that we are predestined never to fully eradicate it. Holcombe is saying</span></span>, in effect, “<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">If rape is inevitable, relax and enjoy it.” I am saying, “Even if rape is inevitable, keep fighting against this injustice.” </span></span>Then, too, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">“inevitability” springs only awkwardly</span></span> from the pen of an economist such as Holcombe, for all <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">such claims run head on into the primordial fact of free will.</span></span>1 <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">If people can make choices</span></span>—and they can—<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">then nothing concerning human institutions can be “inevitable.” To attempt to deny free will is</span></span>, of necessity, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">to engage in it. When something cannot be denied apart from pain of self-contradiction, we can interpret it as necessarily occurring. Thus, government is not inevitable; only free will is. And</span></span>, with the latter, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">the inevitable status of the state cannot logically be entertained, let alone insisted upon</span></span>, as per Holcombe. On the contrary, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">whether the state remains with us will stem from decisions people make; they are just as free to keep a government in their repertoire as to reject it. </span></span>
</span><span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 44203px; width: 1px;">

Framework aspires to the management of blackness through seemingly neutral and objective transportation planning – it’s a Link.
<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Fonza</span></span> 20<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">10 </span></span>(Annalise, PhD in Regional Planning from UMass-Amherst, “TROUBLING CITY PLANNING DISCOURSES: A WOMANIST ANALYSIS OF URBAN RENEWAL AND SOCIAL PLANNING IN SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS, 1960-1980,” Proquest dissertation)

<span class="Underline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11.0pt;">Various scholars assert that whiteness thrives as an ideological construct</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;"> via the creation of a buffer class of middle stratum agents who will do what is necessary to gain and keep the socio-economic benefits or privileges that they gain from those situated at the top of the social hierarchy</span></span> (Allen 1994; Allen 1997; Stokes 2001; Buck, Pem Davidson 2001). <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">This assertion is critical to understanding how whiteness</span></span>, <span class="MsoIntenseEmphasis"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11.0pt;">as an epistemological framework</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">, </span><span class="MsoIntenseEmphasis"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11.0pt;">is reasserted or reinvented by an invisible</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">white homosocial or homopolitical network</span></span> (Stokes 2001). In The Color of Sex: Whiteness, Heterosexuality, and the Fictions of White Supremacy, Mason Stokes describes a white homosocial network as an invisible network of white men that has the power to organize and control others, including men and women, as intermediaries to act on behalf of the network (Stokes 2001).9 In volume one of The Invention of the White Race: Racial Oppression and Social Control, Theodore W. Allen illustrates how, from the thirteenth to the nineteenth century, <span class="Underline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11.0pt;">the British used an intermediate class</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;"> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">strata-system to dominate</span> and control those who lived on <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the Irish plantation</span> of Ulster</span></span> (Allen 1994). <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">The intermediate class of agents acts as a buffer between the white homosocial network and the so-called lower classes of persons</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">who are not a part of the middle stratum of society due to a number of systemic or structural factors such as capitalism, sexism, classism, racism,</span></span> etc. <span class="MsoIntenseEmphasis"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11.0pt;">As long as the homosocial network is not structurally challenged</span></span>, disrupted or exposed, <span class="MsoIntenseEmphasis"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11.0pt;">those within the buffer class are eligible to gain the privileges</span> </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">or benefits that are granted by those at top of the social hierarchy</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">It is imperative that planning scholars become conscious of how whiteness is </span></span><span class="MsoIntenseEmphasis"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11.0pt;">perpetuated by the creation</span></span> of a middle stratum or middle class <span class="MsoIntenseEmphasis"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11.0pt;">of intermediaries</span> </span>because the professional planner is often in the intermediary position where she or he must articulate the interests of someone who is part of a white homosocial network. As agents of these white homosocial or homopolitical networks, it is essential that planners realize the extent to which they and all westernized professionals can be agents of whiteness.
</span>