[[toc]]
=The Theme Song= 
[[media type="custom" key="23419714"]]
=Affirmative= 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">Disabilities 1AC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">Contention 1 is Immobility</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The ADA has failed. Government mandated removal of architectural barriers is necessary to facilitate change.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rein, 2001</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul L. "ADA ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS: DISABILITY ACCESS LITIGATION AND STATUTORY ATTORNEY FEES FOR ENFORCING THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT OF 1990." </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Reinlawoffice.com</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Law Offices of Paul L. Rein. Web. <</span><span style="color: #00008b; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reinlawoffice.com/atla.article.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">>.]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The current system of transportation investment systematically ignores the needs of </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">people with disabilities</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">-even today transportation is lacking.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AAPD, </span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2012</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, </span><span style="color: #00008b; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The ADA does not help the people with disabilities that are transit-dependent. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Michael E </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lewyn</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">""THOU SHALT NOT PUT A STUMBLING BLOCK BEFORE THE BLIND": THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT AND PUBLIC TRANSIT FOR THE DISABLED" Hastings Law Journal 52 (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2001</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">): 1037.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Available at: [[http://works.bepress.com/lewyn/9]]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In the modern society, people with disabilities are marginalized and blamed for the inability to use a transportation system that caters to the majority automobile users. This is the essence of ressentiment- to pretend that any contingent identity could have been chosen, and then to punish for the failure to repress the unwanted tendencies. A shift in politics is necessary to challenge ableist structures that seek a true identity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Koch, 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Tom, Adjunct Professor of Medical Ethics at the University of British Columbia, “Spaced Out in the City: the Wrinkled World of Transit for Those With Limited Mobility”, Disability Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28 No. 2, Spring, [[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/94/94]])</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">Contention 2 is Normality</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The modern society is founded on rigid conceptions of identity- those with certain abilities vs those without, normal vs abnormal, rational vs irrational. Barriers to those with disablities are the result of these standards which, through a process of disciplining contingent elements of identity, eliminate difference from society. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Connolly 91 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University, __Identity/Difference-Democratic Negotiations of Political Paradox pg, 20-21__]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Modern society is based on a quest for a world which fulfills our demands for mastery and unity. This quest necessitates the formation of some identity as true, as the self towards which the “good” naturally strive. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ableism</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">is</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> rooted in </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">this</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> quest for </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">a true identity-the exclusion of people with disabilities is justified by the fact that they do not meet the standard of the perfect citizen. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Th</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">is moralistic</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> quest </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">causes war and disciplining of difference.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Connolly 88</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">William.Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University. __Political Theory and Modernity__. Page at end of card] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">Thus the Plan:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase investment and development of accessible transportation infrastructure and public transportation.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">Next is the role of the ballot.</span>
<span style="color: #101010; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The first and foremost role of the ballot is to vote for the best ethical stance. If the negative cannot defend their ethics-which are the basis for how they make decisions- then it is not your job as the judge to vote them up. We still defend links to the plan as long as the negative proves why their impacts matter.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">Contention 3 is Agonism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Removing barriers and improving accessible infrastructure is key-these are federally managed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Congress, 1994. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nita, Oct.-Nov."Guaranteeing Access to Transportation." </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fhwa.dot.gov</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Federal Highway Administration, Oct.-Nov. Web. <</span><span style="color: #00008b; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/94fall/p94au18.cfm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">>.]</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mass transit is topical.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Mass Transit." </span>**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">TSA</span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. **No Date**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Transportation Security Administration, Web. <http://www.tsa.gov/what_we_do/tsnm/mass_transit/index.shtm>.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">O</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">ur </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">relation to identity and becoming</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> decides how we make decisions. Our question is one of whether our decisions are open, or exclusive and violent.</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Our stance is three pronged</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">First, an ethos of contestability that recognizes all ideals as contingent, as formations we come upon only by chance. This ethos allows us to encounter difference in a way that sees it as a welcome and sought for disturb our sense of identity. This flows into an agonistic respect for difference, an acknowledgement of difference and contingency that allows us to open ourselves to a way of living identity that does not seek to convert or destroy difference, but engage it in contestation. The third prong is a politics of becoming that recognizes a world that will not let itself be mastered or known and is always changing.</span>**
<span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Connolly 99</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins, __Why I am Not a Secularist__ pg 185-187]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Addressing the exclusion of those with disabilities allows us to rethink concepts of identity and social justice- forces us to rethink public infrastructure and discourse. Inclusive policies </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">create a positive political spiral and spillover into other areas—our affirmative is </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">key to radical change in society.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Breckenridge and Vogler, 2001</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carol, Department of South Asian Languages and Civilizations at the University of Chicago, Candace, Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Chicago, “The Critical Limits of Embodiment: Disability’s Criticism”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">Contention 4 is Impact Framing</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Life is not stable, but always a system of becoming and fluctuation. As such, death is not an end but a part of life. We have to include death as a part of life to increase the possibilities within life. An acceptance of death is key to avoid the demand to fear-based drive to turn difference into an evil other to be conquered or converted.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Schoolman 2k8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Morton, Professor of Poli Sci at NYU, The New Pluralism, page on bottom of page]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In a world of becoming we have to take emergent causality into account- the world isn’t as simple as “experts” and linear causality make it to be. Worldwide forces, small and large, are in a state of disequilibrium and constant interactions in a way that exceeds the powers of experts. There is not one possible future, but multiple that can come into being.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Connolly 2K11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [William. Prof of Political Sciences at John Hopkins University. “The Politics of the Event” Sunday, April 3, 2011. __The Contemporary Condition__. [[http://contemporarycondition.blogspot.com/search?updated-min=2011-01-01T00%3A00%3A00-08%3A00&updated-max=2012-01-01T00%3A00%3A00-08%3A00&max-results=13]]] </span>



=Negative= 

====Nietzsche K==== 

**Let’s start by crafting a story, as told by**
**Nietzsche in 1873**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ Friedrich. On Truth and Lies in a Nonmoral Sense. <</span><span style="color: #00006c; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.davemckay.co.uk/philosophy/nietzsche/nietzsche.php?name=nietzsche.1873.ontruthandliesinanonmoralsense]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">>.]</span>


**When faced with the horror of existence, the affirmative takes the Weak Christian Approach-they deny this world, claiming it is temporary and only a staging ground for us to get to a better world.**

**This is the ascetic ideal-the belief that the US will be able to master the world and prevent violence, that the world is open to mastery. With the death of god, the affirmative injects divinity into a utopian vision of the world. But we never reach that world, and instead continue to fool ourselves with visions of utopia that turn against the chaos of life, ignoring that the future may not be any better than today.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scott 1990</span>**(Charles E., professor of Philosophy at Pennsylvania State University, “The Question of Ethics: Nietzsche, Foucault, Heidegger,” Ed. John Sallis, p. 173-174)


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our Second link argument is Slave Morality</span> – <span style="font-size: 12pt;">We are not responsible for the suffering of the world. Believing we are morally responsible to fix things outside of our agency creates a deep form of self hatred when we are unable to effect change</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kain 7</span>** (Phillip J., Professor of Philosophy at Santa Clara University "Nietzsche and the Horror of Existence", The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Issue 33, Spring 2007)


**The utilitarian calculus of the affirmative negates the idea that certain lives may not be worth living-that they may not be productive lives. In the mad dash to prevent suffering the affirmative forgets to look at the now and does not question their fight against suffering, instead envisioning a form of equal value that destroys plurality and reduces human beings to the lowest common denominator.**

**Tongeren, 2007**.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul Van. "Nietzsche, Democracy and Transcendence1." Ajol.info. African Journals Online,Web. <</span><span style="color: #00003c; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ajol.info/index.php/sajpem/article/viewFile/31458/23416..]]</span>__<span style="color: #000087; font-size: 8pt;">>.)</span>__


**The affirmative’s representation of the state as reprensenting the people, holding a set of values and promising salvation from death, makes the state our new god, our new idol.**
**Nietzsche, 1885**.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Friedrich Wilhelm, Trans. Thomas Common. Thus Spake Zarathustra. New York: Modern Lib. <</span><span style="color: #00008b; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://philosophy.eserver.org/nietzsche-zarathustra.txt]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">>]</span>


**The affirmative holds us responsible for the problems of the world, placing us in a constant struggle to eradicate suffering and finitude. They neglect that suffering-even extinction- is inevitable. As we fail to eliminate all suffering, even the inevitable end of our existence, we find ourselves ridden with a bad conscience, for we have failed to fulfill our imposed moral obligations to others. Man, unable to fulfill this obligation to eradicate existential suffering, turns against himself. Man’s inability to affirm life causes the degradation of the individual and deprives all value from life in the affirmative’s utlitiarian calculus, creating a man unable to affirm life because of the need to adhere to the higher values.**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche, 1887</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Friedrich W. "Nietzsche, Genealogy of Morals: Second Essay, Guilt, Bad Conscience, and Related Matters(e-text)." </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Viu.ca</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Trans. Ian Johnston. Vancouver Island University,. Web. <</span><span style="color: #00003c; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://records.viu.ca/~johnstoi/Nietzsche/genealogy2.htm]]</span>__<span style="color: #000087; font-size: 8pt;">>.)</span>__


**Attempts at security and peace turn against the earth, always finding something hostile and unfavorable. This cultivates a will to destruction that physically manifests itself as a spiritual hatred of life, as violent destructive wars, and acts of exploitation taking place against the earth-turning all of the affirmative’s impact claims.**

**Nietzsche, 1872**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Friedrich W. The Birth of Tragedy. Trans. Ian Johnston. 1872. Viu.ca. Vancouver Island University, Web. 2009. <</span><span style="color: #00003c; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://records.viu.ca/~johnstoi/Nietzsche/tragedy_all.htm]]</span>__<span style="color: #000087; font-size: 8pt;">>.)</span>__

**We believe in the endless beauty of the Eternal Return. We must imagine life will repeat itself infinitely. We recognize the suffering of the world and its inevitability. When we recognize that, it becomes possible to overthrow the guilt and pain of suffering. We can use the encounter with death to be stronger and reject those who try to alleviate our suffering.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kain 7 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Phillip J., Professor of Philosophy at Santa Clara University "Nietzsche and the Horror of Existence", The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Issue 33, Spring 2007) MZ</span>


**Our alternative is an ethic of the self, rooted in amor fati, or love of fate. We accept that we cannot hope to eliminate suffering as an essential part of existence; instead of deriving of guilt or discontent, our kritik is an affirmation of our fleeting finitude, an affirmation that allows the self to live to its maximum within this recognition, that does not enslave the indvidual in a drive to security and utopia. Only through this recognition of finitude can we face the meaningless horror that is existence. A vote for the kritik is an affirmation of a different way of orienting ourselves towards the world.**

**Wicks, 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Robert. "Embracing Life versus Embracing Existence." Nietzsche. Oxford: Oneworld, 114-16. Print.)</span>