=Contact Info= 

**If you have any questions, need any cites, or anything else then email us!**

**Jeri: jeri.brand@gmail.com**
**Larine: larinehamied@gmail.com**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Plan Text</span>
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the United States Maritime Administration Title XI program for short sea transportation in the United States.**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Advantage 1</span>
**Advantage one is the Economy –**

**We isolate two internal links – first, is congestion –**

**Congestion underlies a multibillion dollar drag on the economy – chokes any possible recovery**
**Needham, 11** [Report: Traffic congestion costs billions, weighs on the economic recovery, Vicki, The Hill, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/184105-report-traffic-congestion-costs-billions-weighs-on-the-economic-recovery]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Traffic </span>congestion is <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… a productive option</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**That recovery is fragile now – the risk of catastrophic economic failure is high**
**Xinhua News, 5/23/12** [OECD: Global Economy Recovery Fragile, reprinted, [[http://english.cri.cn/6826/2012/05/23/191s701502.htm]]]
The global economy <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">problem of income inequality."</span>

**And, a federal program is a vital internal link to US global competitiveness – current funding is insufficient**
**Zimmer, 11** [Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at [[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]], [[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]]
For the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited</span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>to compete <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… disheartening at best. </span>

**The internal link is linear – the plan is necessary and sufficient to relieve congestion**
**Perakis and Denisis,08** [A survey of short sea shipping and its prospects in the USA, ANASTASSIOS N. PERAKIS* and ATHANASIOS DENISIS Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering, University of Michigan, 213 NAME Building, 2600 Draper Dr., Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2145, USA, [[http://intermodalmarine.com/pdfs/Survey%20of%20SSS%20Prospects%20in%20the%20U.S..pdf]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. Mitigating highway congestion… the transportation chain.</span>

**And, independently an effective MTS is vital to growth – capacity limitations act as a deadly stranglehold**
**Lobiondo, et al 11** [Congressional Testimony, Frank A. LoBiondo is the U.S. Representative for New Jersey's 2nd congressional district, serving since 1995. He is a member of the Republican Party, CREATING JOBS AND INCREASING U.S. EXPORTS BY ENHANCING THE MARINE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON COAST GUARD AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION, COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:BIbLMqrPg5gJ:www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg66919.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us]]]
In order to remain <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… trade</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.</span>

**And, the impact is nuclear great power war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Austin ‘09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman, Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conversely, global policymakers … coalesce into </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">a big bang</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Second, is the shipbuilding industry –**

**The shipbuilding industry is collapsing now**
**Munoz, 11** [January 11, The Obama Infrastructure Plan, and Another Shipyard Closes, OP-ED by Tony Munoz, Editor-in-Chief of the Maritime ExecutiveMagazine and the MarEx Newsletter, [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As President Obama announced … for the poor. Imagine….</span>

**Increased support for short sea shipping sustains the shipbuilding industry**
**Raymond, 05** [Charles, President and CEO Horizon Inc. “Short Sea Shipping: Long On Benefits”,
http://www.inboundlogistics.com/cms/article/short-sea-shipping-long-on-benefits/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To help meet the … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. political leaders.</span>

**And, inland water ways are functionally limitless – the plan is the easiest means of infrastructure expansion and revitalizes the maritime sector**
**Perakis and Denisis,08** [A survey of short sea shipping and its prospects in the USA, ANASTASSIOS N. PERAKIS* and ATHANASIOS DENISIS Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering, University of Michigan, 213 NAME Building, 2600 Draper Dr., Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2145, USA, [[http://intermodalmarine.com/pdfs/Survey%20of%20SSS%20Prospects%20in%20the%20U.S..pdf]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the … the public as well [46].</span>

**Shipbuilding industry is key to the global economy**
**LECG, 2** (LECG Corporation, global consulting firm, “The Economic Contribution of the U.S. Commercial Shipbuilding Industry”, April 2002, http://www.shipbuilders.org/Portals/Shipbuilders/documents/econcontr_shipbuilding.pdf, Deech)
**__U.S. commercial shipbuilders__****__’__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__the income they receive__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Advantage 2</span>
**Heg is unsustainable – 3 reasons**

**1 – Rising powers**
**Layne 2012** [Christopher, Professor and Chair in National Security at Texas A&M University; “This Time it’s real: The end of Unipolarity and Pax Americana,” International Studies Quarterly; January 11, 2012. Accessed online:
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2478.2011.00704.x/full]
__The ascent of new__ __… the United States.__

**2 – Dollar collapse**
**Layne 2012** [Christopher, Professor and Chair in National Security at Texas A&M University; “This Time it’s real: The end of Unipolarity and Pax Americana,” International Studies Quarterly; January 11, 2012. Accessed online:
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2478.2011.00704.x/full]
__America’s__ __geopolitical preeminence … predominance”__ (Kirshner 2008).

**3 – Defense cuts**
**Layne 2012** [Christopher, Professor and Chair in National Security at Texas A&M University; “This Time it’s real: The end of Unipolarity and Pax Americana,” International Studies Quarterly; January 11, 2012. Accessed online:
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2478.2011.00704.x/full]
__With US defense spending … drivers of American decline.*__


**Transition to offshore balancing is coming now – but constraints on power ensure it will fail – naval power and middle east withdrawal are key to making it work**
**Layne, 12**/2012 [Christopher, Professor and Chair in National Security at Texas A&M University; "The (Almost) Triumph of Offshore Balancing," National Interest, January 27, 2012; http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/almost-triumph-offshore-balancing-6405]
Although cloaked in the … __must remain undiminished.__

**Only the plan solves –**

**Expansion of title XI funding ensures __increased naval capacity__**
**Goure, 11** [Lexington Institute, Obama Could Create Jobs And Support Defense, Daniel, PhD, http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171]
__A__ less well recognized __… put__ more __money behind the MHI.__

**<span style="color: #222222;">AND-Shipbuilding industry allows the Navy to solve every conflict</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">NLUS 12</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 7pt;">(Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity,” 2012</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 7pt;">[[@http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 7pt;">)</span>
__<span style="color: #222222;">Global engagement is … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">wounded warriors is fundamental.</span>


**Infrastructure limitations can add almost 2 weeks to critical ammunition shipments – ensuring broadened transport capability is key to avoid strategic bottlenecks**
Paul **Murphy** **99** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Major, United States Airforce, MA in Mobility Studies) 1999 “THE AVAILABILITY OF CONTAINER SHIPPING NEEDED TO MEET WARTIME AMMUNITION SUSTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA372314]]</span>

V. Ammunition Port Restrictions
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What throughput </span>limitations exist <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">get into a berth.</span>

**Naval power key to global stability**
**Cropsey 10** **(Seth, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, former deputy undersecretary of the Navy (1984-1990), “The US Navy in Distress, //Routledge: Taylor & Francis Group//, Vol. 34, No. 1, January 2010, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Cropsey_US_Navy_In_Distress.pdf)//AMV//**
//__The size, shape, and strategy …__ surrendered slowly over decades.//


//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Naval Power projection is key to a cost-effective military strategy – maintains allied assurance with a light footprint.**</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**McKeon 12** </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">House Armed Services Committee Chairman (Howard P. "Buck", “FISCAL YEAR 2013 NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BUDGET REQUESTS FROM U.S. CENTRAL COMMAND, U.S. SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND AND U.S. TRANSPORTATION COMMAND”, 3-7-2012, UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON THE ARMED SERVICES ONE HUNDRED TWELFTH CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION, pdf) RaPa</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the withdrawal of … the Committee’s strong support. </span>//

//**We’ll isolate 3 scenarios:**//
//**First** **is China:**//
//**Offshore balancing solves China rise**//
//**Mearsheimer ’11**- R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, serves on the Advisory Council of The National Interest (12/16/10, John, The National Interest, Jan-Feb 2011 Issue, “Imperial by Design”, he R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National __Interesthttp:__//__nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=show, je)__
__Of course, America would check … Beijing’s ambitions.__


**And the link is reverse-causal – heg ensures Sino-US conflict over regional interests.**
**Glaser 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bonnie, Center for Strategic and International Studies, Global Forecast 2012, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/120413_gf_glaser.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the current administration … the United States and China. </span>


**Conflict with China goes nuclear**
**Glaser 2011** (Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, Will China's Rise Lead to War? Subtitle: Why Realism Does Not Mean Pessimism, Foreign Affairs, March/April, lexis)
ACCOMMODATION ON TAIWAN? The prospects … poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.


**Second is the Middle East:**
**Offshore balancing is comparatively the best strategy to prevent terrorism and Middle East escalation**
**__Layne 9__** – Christopher, Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University (2009, “America’s Middle East grand strategy after Iraq: the moment for o<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">ﬀ</span>shore balancing has arrived,” Review of International Studies (2009), 35: 5-25, online at http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=1&fid=3291804&jid=RIS&volumeId=35&issueId=01&aid=3291800&bodyId=&membershipNumber=&societyETOCSession=)
By lowering America’s politico-military … __Middle East, and globally__.


**Interventionism in the Middle East causes nuclear war – the media is deceiving us into fighting – this is an indict to their turns.**
**Cunningham 12** (“Towards a World War III Scenario: The Real Imperialist Agenda,” a Review of Michel Chossudovsky's book, by Finian Cunningham, Global Research, March 20, 2012. http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=29866 Accessed 3/21/2012. * Michel Chossudovsky is an award-winning author, Professor of Economics (Emeritus) at the University of Ottawa. He is the Founder and Director of the Centre for Research on Globalization (CRG), Montreal, and Editor of the globalresearch.ca website. He is the author of The Globalization of Poverty and The New World Order (2003) and America's "War on Terrorism" (2005). He has taught as Visiting Professor at universities in Western Europe, South East Asia and Latin America, acted as an adviser to governments of developing countries and as a consultant for several international organizations. Prof. Chossudovsky is a signatory of the Kuala Lumpur declaration to criminalize war and recipient of the Human Rights Prize of the Society for the Protection of Civil Rights and Human Dignity (GBM), Berlin, Germany. He is also a contributor to the Encyclopaedia Britannica. His writings have been published in more than twenty languages. )
"Towards a World War III Scenario… the truth of what is at stake.

**3.** **An aggressive deployment strategy makes conflict with Russia more likely – any new confrontation would escalate**
**Cohen 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Russian and Slavic Studies at New York University, Contributing Editor of //The Nation//</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen F. “The New American Cold War” //The Nation//, July 10th (http://www.thenation.com/doc/20060710/cohen</span>**)]**
<span class="HeaderChar">__If American policy__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Russia's … Russia has been "constantly deceived.") </span>

**Largest nuclear war and extinction**
**BOSTROM** 3 / 8 / **02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dr. & Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at YALE – [Dr. Nick, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the exception of a species-destroying … the 21st century.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Solvency</span>
**Contention Three is __Solvency__**

**A comprehensive federal expansion of Title XI loan guarantees mitigates congestion and creates conditions favorable for private investment – the plan reverse the only barrier to short sea transportation**
**Cook, 11** — former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water, Deech)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For more than a decade… included as a transaction cost.</span>



**And, marine infrastructure is key – other networks have reached maximum capacity – ineffective coordination precipitates wider congestion**
**Jackson, 07** [LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM, Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United States Army Professor John F. Troxell Project Adviser, http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:0K7n92gvqk0J:www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD%3DADA469583+&hl=en&gl=us]
As our road and rail networks <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">develop future capabilities.24</span>

**And, solely private sector action is insufficient – high startup costs make external incentives critical**
**McCormick, 10** [Strengthening US Government US Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood addressed the recent National Port Summit in San Diego. Wayne McCormick, of America’s Marine Highways, conducted the following interviewSupport of Marine Highways, [[http://americasmarinehighways.com/userfiles/Inland%20Port%20Mag%20-%20LaHood%20%282%29.pdf]]]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The private sector</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> most … </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">component of the Marine Highway.</span>

**Alternatives to growth kill hundreds of millions and cause global conflict—we can’t “turn off” the economy.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Barnhizer 6</span> — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” //Georgetown International Environmental Law Review// (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
The scale of social needs <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… consequences of our behavior</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**And, that heightens the resiliency of the transportation network – a secure federal funding stream ensures adequate coordination**
**Lombardo, 04** [Short Sea Shipping: Practices, Opportunities and Challenges[[http://www.insourceaudit.com/WhitePapers/Short_Sea_Shipping.asp#_ftn1|[1]]] Written by Gary A. Lombardo, Ph.D.[[http://www.insourceaudit.com/WhitePapers/Short_Sea_Shipping.asp#_ftn2|[2]]] Prepared by TransportGistics, Inc, [[http://www.insourceaudit.com/WhitePapers/Short_Sea_Shipping.asp]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Opportunities </span>A<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> successful </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">short sea shipping </span>////<span style="font-size: 11pt;">… </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">cost categories were identified. </span>

=Neg= 
==Strats - Wake== 
Round Six vs. Gulliver Prep HA
==Strats - Chattahoochee== 
Round One vs. Roswell MR (Port Security)
**1NC**- T-maintenance, security K, Elections,
**2NC**- T-maintenance, elections, case **1NR**- heg bad, case
**2NR**- elections and case

Round Three vs. Westminster LP (CCS)
**1NC**-T-pipelines, elections, sunshades CP, Co2 Ag, security K,
**2NC-** T, elections **1NR-**Co2 Ag, case
**2NR-**T

Round Six vs.NextGen (Alpharetta)
**1NC-** elections, RAF CP, Security K, T- satellites, heg bad
**2NC**- T, elections, CP, case **1NR** case, heg bad
**2NR**- heg bad, case

<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">**Strats - Michigan**</span>
Round One vs. New Trier BG (Icebreakers)
**1NC**- T-vehicles/ maintenance, T- in means within, Elections, Virilio, Heg Bad
**2NC**- T-in means with in, Elections, case **1NR**- heg bad, case
**2NR**- Elections, Heg bad, Case defense

Round Three vs. Main East KM (HSR)
**1NC**-T-vehicles, elections, Virlio, RAF CP, Stim Bad
**2NC-** lxn, case, stim bad **1NR-** CP, case, air pollution/ bioD turn
**2NR-**biodiversity/ air pollution turn, stim bad, CP

Round Five vs. Oak Park River Forest MM (Relational Planning)
**1NC-** global local, t-preexisting, states CP with federalism NB, elections, case
**2NC**- T, global local **1NR** states CP with fed nb, case
**2NR**- CP with fed NB and case

<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">**Strats - Lexington**</span>
Round One vs. CCS with Warming and No War
**1NC:** T-pipelines, politics, warming K, sunshades CP, warming D, CO2 ag turn, yes war
**2NC:** politics, warming D, co2 ag, yes war **1NR**: warming K
**2NR:** warming K

Round Four vs. Riverhill SS (Race Aff)
**1NC:** Body K, Cap K, framework, case
**2NC:** framework, case **1NR:** cap K
**2NR:** cap K


Round Six vs. Westminster LP (NIB)
**1NC:** politics, Nietzsche, HSR pic, econ D and stim turn, heg turn
**2NC:** CP, econ D and stim turn **1NR**: heg bad
**2NR**: heg bad, stim turn, econ D