[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
New aff -
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: arial,sans,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Dead Astronauts (Mahler), Sacrificial Politics. Full cites to follow... [cite people should actually get cites... would be helpful... for everyone... Anyway, here is it. -David]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: arial,sans,sans-serif; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: arial,sans,sans-serif; text-align: left;">
=1AC= 

**Contention 1: The Dead Astronauts**

<span class="Underline">**The space program is already and has always been dead. Built on the redeployment and sanctification of dead astronauts, our dreams of a final frontier in space are nothing but twisted attempts to erase our personal and societal failures – to move into the future and forget our collective past.** </span>

<span class="Underline">**J. G. Ballard explains in 1962** – (1962, J. G. Ballard, “The Cage of Sand,” in J. G. Ballard The Complete Short Stories DH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">At sunset, when the vermilion … neck and shoulders.</span><span class="Underline"> **'We made it!'** </span>

=Plan= 

<span class="Underline">**Thus: the United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of the dead astronauts Connolly, Tkachev, Merril, Maiakovski, Pokrovski, Woodward and Brodisnek.**</span>


<span class="Underline">**Contention 2: victimage** </span>

<span class="Underline">**For the entire year, the debate community has discussed whether or not the federal government should expand its space program, yet not once have we stepped back to consider the tragic foundations of the program and our desire to move into space. We have not spoken about the legacy of Challenger or what it means for our plans, advocacies, and goals. In the wake of the explosion of Challenger, the real, visceral, emotional deaths of the astronauts was replaced by Ronald Reagan’s clarion call for the frontier – a demand that we push harder, develop more, explore further in the name of the American domination of space.** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Lule 90** – (1990, Jack, PhD, Joseph B. McFadden Distinguished Professor of Journalism, Department of Journalism & Communication, Lehigh University, “The Political Use of Victims: The Shaping of the Challenger Disaster,” Political Communication and Persuasion, Volume 7, pp. 115-128, taylor and francis – paid DH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Abstract This essay applies Kenneth … </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">enactment of the political spectacle.4 </span>



<span class="Underline">**Victimage is the most essential act of all communication and is responsible for atrocities including the Holocaust and the history of slavery – any analysis that doesn’t take the creation of symbolic victims as its starting point is doomed to failure – our interrogation of the Challenger disaster can illuminate the politics of victimage throughout society.**
**Lule 90** – (1990, Jack, PhD, Joseph B. McFadden Distinguished Professor of Journalism, Department of Journalism & Communication, Lehigh University, “The Political Use of Victims: The Shaping of the Challenger Disaster,” Political Communication and Persuasion, Volume 7, pp. 115-128, taylor and francis – paid DH) </span>

__Critical application of Kenneth Burke's … **becomes justification of its mission****.**__



**This allows the dehumanization of the enemy and is the root cause of the militarization of American society – results in endless and misguided interventionism and violence.**
**Engels 10** – (2010, Jeremy, Assistant Professor of Communication Arts and Sciences at Penn State University, “The Politics of Resentment and the Tyranny of the Minority: Rethinking Victimage for Resentful Times,” Rhetoric Society Quarterly Vol. 40, No. 4, pp. 303–325, ebsco DH)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In his seminal 1980 Communication Monographs … </span>__achieve ‘‘catharsis by scapegoat’’__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Language 18). </span>



**The culture of victimage and sacrifice inherent in American politics dehumanizes both the self and the other resulting in the escalation and increasing violence of modern wars.**
**Denton-Borhaug 10** – (2010, Kelly Denton-Borhaug, PhD, is Associate Professor of Religious Studies at Moravian College in Bethlehem, “War-Culture and Sacrifice,” Feminist Theology 2010 18: 175, sage DH)

__The appearance of sacrificial rhetoric__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> … ,</span> __there is no going back.__



**Specifically, it is this trope of ritual sacrifice generates total war – results in the mass death of civilians AND environmental destruction.**
**Denton-Borhaug 10** – (2010, Kelly Denton-Borhaug, PhD, is Associate Professor of Religious Studies at Moravian College in Bethlehem, “War-Culture and Sacrifice,” Feminist Theology 2010 18: 175, sage DH)

**__The intensity of this relationship …__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">especially in twentieth century war). </span>



**The militarization of society will inevitably culminate in extinction.**
**Sanders 09** – (2009, Barry, former professor of History of Ideas and English, Pitzer College, Fulbright Senior Scholar Grant recipient, has been nominated twice for the Pulitzer Prize, and is the author of eleven books, “The Green Zone: The Environmental Costs of Militarism” Intro)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In a nation</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> like ours, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">where … </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">liberals—</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">and almost everyone responds. </span>



<span class="Underline">**Contention 3: solvency**</span>

<span class="Underline">**This effacement of the reality of Challenger’s demise came back with a vengeance when Columbia exploded on February 1, 2003. The 1AC’s confrontation with Ballard’s abandoned Mecca of the first heroes of astronautics is a deconstruction of the optimistic, heroic expectations of classical sf and of the frontier mentality in Space. Only this move can explain the extreme violence of the modern era, including the drive to nuclear war.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Rossi 09** – (Mar. 2009, Umberto, secondary school teacher, a literary journalist, a part-time translator and an independent comparative literature scholar. He is interested in war literature, science-fiction, narrative theory, postmodernism and modernism, “A Little Something About Dead Astronauts,” Science Fiction Studies, 107, 36, 1, available online DH) </span>

Ballard takes a different approach<span class="Underline">, placing … </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">cult attached to him/her). </span>



**Your should read the 1AC as a thought experiment – science fiction is descriptive not predictive – our critique of the present is a prerequisite to knowing the future.**
**Le Guin 69** (Ursula Le Guin. Science Fiction Author. Author’s Introduction to The Left Hand of Darkness 2nd edition. 1969)

__Science fiction is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> often described, … </span>__is a matter of the imagination.__



**Fictionalizing reality is the only way to truly understand it.**
**Zizek 01** (Slavoj Zizek, senior researcher at the Institute of Sociology, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia, and a professor at the European Graduate School, also a film critic, “The Fright of Real Tears: Krzystof Kieslowski between Theory and Post-theory”, pg. 71-78)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The ultimate gap that gives … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">unavowed kernel of our lives.</span>


**Science fiction is central to our understanding of space, the future, and the past.**
**Franklin 09** (H Bruce, Prof of English & American Studies – Rutgers, “what is science fiction – and how it grew,” Reading Science Fiction)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Science Fiction (</span>__SF) is a defining feature … daily lives, in a cosmic context__

</span>
=Round 2= 

=Round 3= 
Same 1AC

===2AC Baudrillard=== 
<span class="Underline">**There is such a thing as a real event – they deny the ability to prevent catastrophe.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Latour 4**– (Bruno, Elected fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in Cambridge, 2004, “Why Has Critique Run out of Steam?” Critical Inquiry, V.30, no. 2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In which case </span>the danger would no longer be coming from an excessive confidence in ideological arguments posturing as matters of fact<span class="Underline">–…… …. these are our weapons nonetheless.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> In spite of all the deformations, it is easy to recognize, still burnt in the steel, our trade mark: MADE IN CRITICALLAND. </span>


Ballard does the same thing as Baudrillard but better.
N. Katherine **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayles 91</span>__**, lit prof at Duke, “The Borders of Madness”, Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 18, No. 3, Science Fiction and Postmodernism (Nov., 1991),pp. 321-323

When Baudrillard writes that we live in an age of simulacra, he is not wrong. … …. . There is only one high that can last forever—the one that ends in death.

===2AC Memorial Essentialization=== 
**And our form of ethical grieving solves mass violence.**
**Butler 09 –** (Judith, Professor of Rhetoric, UC Berkeley, badass, “Frames of War”)

__It is precisely within an ongoing contestation over power that the question of doing or not doing violence emerges. …. ….when neither admits to being implicated in the__ __position of the other__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span class="ShrinkText" style="font-size: 7pt;">Indeed, one effect of such modes of sovereignty is precisely to "lose the you."</span>

**Squo coopts the alt.**
**Blain 94** – (1994, Michael, PhD in sociology at the University of Colorado, professor of sociology at Boise State University, “Power, War, and Melodrama in the Discourses of Political Movements,” Theory and Society, Vol. 23, No. 6 (Dec., 1994), pp. 805-837, google scholar DH)


__Participation in political movements constitutes participants as ethical agents and strategical power subjects …. ….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In the heat of battle, activists transform opponents and themselves into hyperbolic characters by vilifying their adversaries while heroizing themselves and allies. </span>

**Victimage rhetoric breaks down the possibility for resistance – movements and critique get coopted and death discourse gets perpetuated.**
**Blain 05** – (2005, Michael, PhD in sociology at the University of Colorado, professor of sociology at Boise State University, “THE POLITICS OF VICTIMAGE: Power and subjection in a US anti-gay campaign,” Critical Discourse Studies Vol. 2, No. 1 April 2005, pp. 31–50 DH)

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kenneth Burke’s approach to power and discourse can be merged with Foucault’s …. …. as an immoral power subject and incite those addressed to political action by empowering them as moral agents. </span>__


===__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2AC Trickster CP</span>__=== 
**From science fiction emerges overt political mobilization – textual resistance is a //necessary condition// for opposition**
<span class="Cite">Moylan 2k</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Tom Moylan, Glucksman Professor of contemporary writing and Director of the Ralahine Centre for Utopian Studies, University of Limerick, 2000, “Scraps of the Untainted Sky: Science Fiction, Utopia, Dystopia”, pg. 192-193)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Pointing to the self-reflexivity of the critical utopias</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, Cavalcanti further notes that </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">….. ….</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> political strategies" needed to dismantle the present system and lead toward a better, utopian future</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>

===__2AC Topicality [various]__=== 
====__Substantial__==== 
**W/M – Substantial should be a low threshold that only excludes infinitesimal or theoretical cases**
**Sanders et al 08**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://law.missouri.edu/lawreview/docs/73-2/SandersGreenPowers.pdf]]The Insubstantiality of the “Substantial Factor” Test for Causation, Joseph Sanders is the A.A. White Professor of Law at the University of Houston. Michael D. Green is the Williams Professor at Wake Forest University School of Law. William C. Powers, Jr. is the Hines H. Baker & Thelma Kelley Baker Chair at the University of Texas School of Law and University Distinguished Teaching Professor and President of the University of Texas at Austin. Because of other obligations, President Powers is only able to join as a co-author of Part I of this Article.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>the court<span style="font-size: 8pt;">signaled that it </span>did not … ….<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of comparative negligence, under which a party is responsible for his or her share of negligence and the harm caused thereby.”69 </span>

**C/I Substantial means ample and sustaining – limits out miniscule, one-time tech affs**
**AHD 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition, Houghton Mifflin Company, 2000, “Substantially”, http://www.thefreedictionary.com/substantially)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ample; sustaining</span>

**a) Aff predictability – we need to be able to know before the round if our aff is topical – key to research incentives and aff ground – substantial is too arbitrary**
**Stark 97** – patent attorney from Tennessee (Stephen, “NOTE: KEY WORDS AND TRICKY PHRASES: AN ANALYSIS OF PATENT DRAFTER'S ATTEMPTS TO CIRCUMVENT THE LANGUAGE OF 35 U.S.C., Journal of Intellectual Property Law, Fall, 1997 5 J. Intell. Prop. L. 365, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In patent law, ambiguity of claim language necessarilyresults in uncertainty …. …. </span>__makes the scope of protection__ particularly hard to determine<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Development can’t be quantitative**

**Jain et al, 6**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Development Economics</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Economic professor Punjabi University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2) Qualitative Change: In the words of Prof. J.K. Mehta, </span>"The terms development andgrowth are not synonymous<span style="font-size: 8pt;">". </span>Term 'growth' is quantitative whereas term development isqualitative.

====Space==== 
**W/M – satellites are beyond the mesosphere.**
**Russell 08** – (7/17/08, Randy, MA in Aerospace Engineering, PhD in Educational Systems, former computer programmer/analyst at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in 1987-1988 in support of satellite communications, “The Mesosphere,” Windows to the Universe, http://www.windows2universe.org/earth/Atmosphere/mesosphere.html&edu=high DH)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The mesosphere is difficult to study, so less is known about this layer of the atmosphere … …instruments, much about the mesosphere is still mysterious. </span>

**Development means technology – the object must be a product or service not a location such as space.**
**FAR****10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – The FAR is the primary regulation for use by all Federal Executive agencies in their acquisition of supplies and services with appropriated funds. It is issued under the joint authorities of the Administrator of General Services, the Secretary of Defense, and //the Administrator for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration//, under the broad policy guidelines of the Administrator, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Federal Acquisition Regulation, April 2010[This interpretation has been enforced since 1984 but is a quote from the 2010 FAR specifically], http://www.dcaa.mil/FAR_Cost_Principles_Guide.pdf)</span>

__"Development,"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as used in this subsection, </span>__means the systematic use__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … …materials, systems, processes, methods, equipment, tools, and techniques not intended for sale. </span>

===Framework=== 
**This provides unique educational benefits.**
**LAZ 1996** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Associate Professor of Sociology, University of Southern Maine (Cheryl, “Science Fiction and Introductory Sociology: The "Handmaid" in the Classroom.” Teaching Sociology, Vol. 24, No. 1 (Jan., 1996), pp. 54-63, JSTOR) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Sociology often has an eye to the future, in terms of either social change, preserving the status quo, or (in less an obviously ideologi- cal way) …. </span>__the world of what is, on the surface, fiction.__

**Thus, whether or not the 1AC is REAL is irrelevant for whether it is a productive act of fiat**
**Booth et al. 9** – (Charles Booth, Reader in Strategy and International Business at the University of the West of England, Bristol, Professor Michael Rowlinson, Professor of Organization Studies at Queen Mary, University of London, 2009, “Scenarios and counterfactuals as modal narratives”, Futures 41 (2009) 87–95)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In this final section of the paper we turn our attention to the question: “</span><span class="UnderlineChar">…..</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">gement – as it requires us [26] and [27] to lose our ontological innocence, once and for all.</span>

**And only this accesses the terminal impacts to debate – our vision of the future is a HEURISTIC device that mobilize activism.**
**Brincat 09** – (Shannon Brincat, Department Member, Center of Excellence for Global Governance Research at the University of Helsinki, “Reclaiming the Utopian imaginary in IR theory”, Review of International Studies (2009), 35: 581-609)

Imagining that we can change is the precursor to doing so<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Moylan’s concept …..</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> imagination can provide IR theory with the potential to be a more critical, even transformative discipline.</span>

**Specifically, the militarization of educational spaces forcloses productive discussion and leads to policy failure – our role as students is key.**
**Denton-Borhaug 10** – (2010, Kelly Denton-Borhaug, PhD, is Associate Professor of Religious Studies at Moravian College in Bethlehem, “War-Culture and Sacrifice,” Feminist Theology 2010 18: 175, sage DH)

__The deep, naturalized and largely unexamined intertwining ….__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">ervasiveness and seemingly sacred nature of war-culture in the United States. </span>





=Round 4= 

**The linear predictions upon which the 1ac is based are not benign or accurate – they offer a reductionist view of the world that ignores chaos and complexity – key to avoid future extinction threats.**
**Saperstein 97.** Alvin M. Saperstein, professor of physics at Wayne State University, “Complexity, Chaos, and National Security Policy: Metaphors or Tools?” Complexity, Politics, and National Security pg. 57

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is clear that </span><span class="Underline">**successful**</span> … <span class="Underline">to avoid falling into chaos</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.26</span>

**The aff’s use of specific scenario planning ignores complexity.**
**Mills 09** – (William, PhD political science – University of Michigan, “IV. 2. Constructing Complexity Theory for International Relations,” [[http://futuremethods.wordpress.com/complexity/iv-2-constructing-complexity-theory-for-international-relati/]])

Scenario analysis<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> today </span>is used … <span style="font-size: 7pt;">yet to be proven relevance.</span>

**Rethinking linearity is key to solve extinction.**
**Skyttner 05**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">–</span> (Lars, professor of natural science – University of Gâvle, professor – Royal Swedish Military Academy, “Systems theory and the science of military command and control,” Kybernetes Vol. 34, Issue 7/8, p. 1240-1260)

<span class="Underline">Military activity has</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> constantly </span><span class="Underline">been … </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">to be, can be the following:</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">territorial integrity in the livingspace;</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">political sovereignty and democracy;</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">freedom of thought, religion and speech;</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">a state governed by law with human rights and minority rights;</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">free market economy; and</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">the free university.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In the protection of these values, the extensive invasion and mobilization defence with its mass army no longer has a justification. Not including the frontiers of land, sea and air combat, a new frontier has emerged where the battle is fought with global information systems. There the strategic goals have changed so that destruction has been replaced by manipulation, infiltration and assimilation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">All this taken together is … also be possible to combat.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The building up of such a defence will demand an entirely new way of thinking regarding decision-making, command and control and use of modern technology. Internationally, this kind of thinking has attracted great interest and got the designation “Revolution in Military Affairs” (RMA). The term is based on a number of technological breakthroughs which have occurred after the end of the cold war about 1990. In several ways, these have changed the ground for modern warfare. Here the most important achievements have been the information-technological progresses which will permit the use of lots of sensors and the capability to transfer and manage big information-flows. Realistic training with the aid of virtual three-dimensional computer scenarios (“Battlefield Computer Games”), has signified a pronounced increase in the combat-skill of tank-crews.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Some important trends within the RMA-concept is presented below:</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Unmanned fighting vehicles and aircrafts. Automated, computerized technology will replace drivers and pilots. Start navigation, interpreting of the surrounding world, target-interpretation, target combatting and possible landing, is handled completely automatic. The opportunity of human handling and target combats remain. No consideration regarding the weight of the pilot, G-forces and life-supporting systems is necessary. The construction can be lighter, stronger, more rapid and cheaper. The instruction time can be shorter.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Data-streams, threat-analyses and military preparedness. Miniaturized networks of cheap sensors deliver data from areas which earlier have not been accessible. Immediate processing creates information which is distributed via coded broadband to all units needing it.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Chemical, bacteriological, radiological detection and protection. Micro sensors integrated in new protective clothes will dramatically increase the ability to move and increase freedom of action in contaminated areas. High sensibility and selectivity will make possible an immediate detection of the threat.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Body-armour for fighting soldiers. Extremely strong and light bullet proof materials increase the survival on the battlefield.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Field-equipment of lightweight type. New, lightweight materials will decrease the total carrying load for the soldier. Hence endurance and strength will increase. This holds well for uniforms, personal weapons, communication equipment and darkness-optics.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">New bio-treatment for augmented performance. Without the use of drugs, human staying power can be doubled. Lack of sleep and impaired vigilance now can be compensated for as well as the impact of physical damage.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">A science of command and control</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Today's military command and control embrace different kinds of affairs from battle conduct to more administrative activities. It takes place on different strata from lower tactical levels to the highest strategical level. In contrast to civil command and control it includes fundamental questions regarding life and death for involved persons. In battlefields the unmasked principle of causality always rules. There the connection between conclusions and orders and their consequences are terrifyingly short.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">A simple definition of the aim of command and control could be the coordination of human actions with different resources to get effects. In practise, this is often considered as something diffuse. Difficulties often arise when analysing the content and form of the activity. Problem solutions too often are seen as applied science without either theories or scientific method. Obstacles to attain a comprehensive view with hitherto used frames of reference have been experienced by both commanders and military theorists.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">With this background, an attempt to regard command and control as part of “The Art of War” may be understandable. As an art, it can only be developed and reach its fulfilment inside the born leader with his special creativity, intuition capability and the divine vestige, existing in very few persons. However, such a view will have some less successful consequences, especially for the education of higher commanders. The divine vestige is scarcely possible to gauge and the number of born leaders is not in enough supply for the demands of society. At all events it cannot be the foundation for the recruitment of general staff candidates. Here more measurable and tangible properties must be decisive.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">A more fruitful attitude therefore has appeared to be an integration of the problems of military management into a general scientific educational frame and denote it a science of command and control. The military competent at once realise that this area has two central questions at issue, on the one hand to make relevant decisions and on the other to carry them out adequately. With a slight reformulation it is possible to say that decision-making is to determine what should be done. The realization, the command, concerns how it should be done. Here the continuous existing aspect of time is present with its deadlines for thinking, planning, decision-making, taking measures, etc. This kind of activity always embraces the old truism of the equal importance of making the right things as doing things right. Regarding civil decision-making and execution, it often differs marginally (in principle) from the military counterpart. Thus, it is possible to speak of a general science of command and control.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In English, the area is denoted by the words command, control, communication and information with the acronym C3I. Command implies goal-oriented conduct and action, executed by people over people who all are living creatures and thereby process information for their survival. The process of life is to adapt the own situation to an ever-changing environment and a relation between information and control. Control comprises the processing of information, programming, decision and communication. Two-way communication between the controller and the controlled feeds back the result of the action for necessary justification and new activity.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In reality, the described </span>control … <span class="Underline">realityas completely as possible?</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Something which must be elucidated in the definitions above is the concept of a commander. The presumption that one can count with an unambiguous, conclusive commander as in military units, civil service departments or oil-tankers are not always correct. A committee, a board or some kind of collective often is the equivalent. This must be considered the rule when controversial political problems should be solved.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The concept of a commander implies that somebody (sometimes several) can formulate a criterion for the best problem solution and take the responsibility for a decision. Likewise that this (or these) people finally shoulder the responsibility for execution even if this can be transferred to other instances.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Today </span><span class="Underline">a science of command and … </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">forms of cooperation and conflicts.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Moreover, modern leadership is often executed at a distance which implies both possibilities and risks. Today's communication technology will permit operations (both surgical and military!) to be literally managed and controlled from the other side of the globe. Modern dispersed organisations thus have their specific problems which cannot be neglected. How should social relations be managed when the personal encounter becomes a rare event and directors are dematerialized to a voice in a satellite-mediated phone call?</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Regarding military command and control systems, they are today typically multi-component phenomena. The deciding functions are performed by people, simple decision-support systems in computer-based algorithms and advanced expert-systems. The decision-components are geographically dispersed dependent on the appearance of the environment but also for reason of survival. This distributed system gets its character by the quality of the sensors together with velocity and effectiveness of actual weapons.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The need for a comprehensive theory</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">For </span><span class="Underline">the military scientist it </span>… <span style="font-size: 5pt;">like other scientific areas, namely:</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">what theories represent the core of the field?</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">which methods are used?</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">which sources are used? and</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">to what extent are these theories, methods and sources universally applicable?</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Does such a theory exist? From … to </span><span class="Underline">learn to live with it.</span>

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative in favor of a method that is based on complexity. Only complexity theory can produce successful policies and predictions.**
**Rosenau 97.** James N. Rosenau, president of the international studies association, professor of international affairs at GW, “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs,” Complexity, Politics, and National Security pg. 37

<span class="Underline">To acknowledge the limits of … </span>and theorizing within its limits<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Their risk calculations are methodologically flawed.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 11</span> – (Gerald, professor of Operations Research Department – Naval Postgraduate School, “Making Terrorism Risk Analysis Less Harmful and More Useful: Another Try,” Risk Analysis Vol. 31, Issue 2)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">5. </span>Better risk analysis is … approach<span class="Underline">with more useful analyses.</span>

**The butterfly effect makes complex systems inherently unstable.**
**Rosenau 97.** James N. Rosenau, president of the international studies association, professor of international affairs at GW, “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs,” Complexity, Politics, and National Security pg. 37, jk

It follows from the vulnerability … of apartheid in South Africa<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.16</span>

**their brink and uniqueness claims are a link.**
**Mann 97** – (Steven R, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, “The Reaction to Chaos,” in Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, eds. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University)

Consider<span class="Underline"> the massive reordering</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that … the fundamental reordering that followed.</span>



**Failing to acknowledge complexity makes war more likely and prevents effective policymaking.**
**Kavalski 07** – (Emilian, “The fifth debate and the emergence of complex international relations theory: notes on the application of complexity theory to the study of international life,” //Cambridge Review of International Affairs// Volume 20, Issue 3, p. 435-454)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As Beaumont (1994, 145) has quipped, there … </span><span class="Underline">human societies and their interactions.</span>


**We agree with their macro-level analysis of hegemony; however, absolute stability is impossible – specific linear scenario planning ignores complexity**
**Osinga 05** – (Frans, PhD, colonel – Royal Netherlands Air Force, “Science, Strategy and War: The Strategic Theory of John Boyd,” Eburon Academic Publishers)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In similar vein several authors … to the particular strategic challenge. </span>

**This makes our military vulnerable.**
**Beyerchen 97** – (Alan D, associate professor of history – Ohio State University, “Clausewitz, Nonlinearity, and the Importance of Imagery,” in Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, eds. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University)

<span class="Underline">What is </span>the utility of … <span style="font-size: 7pt;">us </span><span class="Underline">than is</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> truly </span><span class="Underline">possible.</span>

**Determining the terms of the simulation is a prerequisite to participating in an effective roleplaying exercise – creating effective military simulations and models is the best way to formulate policies in the future – theoretical or real world approaches alone fail.**
**Rife 99** – (1999, Shawn, Major, USAF, “On Space-Power Separatism,” Airpower Journal, Spring, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA528844]] DH)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Generally</span>__, doctrine comes from three …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">after Next” war-game series.</span>

**The metaphors we use to describe and predict predetermine our policy actions.**
**Saperstein 97** – (Alvin M, professor of physics and fellow, Center for Peace and Conflict Studies, Wayne State University, “Complexity, Chaos, and National Security Policy: Metaphors or Tools?” in Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, eds. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University)

The role of the <span style="font-size: 10pt;">policy … </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">-statesman Francis Bacon, 17th century)</span>

**Strategy built on flawed assumptions is doomed to failure.**
**Schrecker 10** – (Oct. 2010, Lieutenant Colonel Mark Schrecker, USMC, Joint Forces Quarterly, “U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan: Flawed Assumptions Will Lead to Ultimate Failure,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/US-strategy-in-afghanistan.html DH)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Before assessing the Obama administration's … </span>**__assumptions is doomed to failure.__**

**Their application of neopositivist rationality to IR coopts the K**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jackson 11</span> – (Patrick Thadeus, associate professor … __of Inquiry in International Relations__, p. 42-43)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In this chapter I will expand … or justification of their position.</span>

**Elkus 09** – (3/22/09, Adam, analyst specializing in foreign policy and security studies, associate editor – Red Team Journal, [[http://redteamjournal.com/2009/03/military-futurism/]])

__The chief difficulty in predicting … or implicit references to them.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">”9</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The “Cold War thinking” that cutting-edge strategic theorists disparage routinely is an example of a “legacy future.” The debate over terrorism is still marked by the use of Cold War terminology, perhaps suggesting a desire to revive a Cold War-esque ideological struggle against a monolithic threat. This vision bears little resemblance to the reality of loose, decentralized, and theologically fragmented terrorist cells that former CIA analyst Marc Sageman describes in his book Leaderless Jihad.10</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">More pernicious than presentism is … </span>__accomplished regardless of human weakness.__

**If the perm has a net benefit, it links – predetermining the outcome causes cooptation.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Osinga</span> 0<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5</span> – (Frans, PhD, colonel – Royal Netherlands Air Force, “Science, Strategy and War: The Strategic Theory of John Boyd,” Eburon Academic Publishers)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Already in 1990 James </span>Rosenau<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> had </span>… <span style="font-size: 7pt;">productive analogy for social science’128.</span>

**The aff’s understanding of power-politics relies on a false theory of equilibrium that prevents them from reacting to dynamic changes in the international system.**
**Louth 09** – (Nov. 2009, Jonathan, PhD, professor in the School of History and Politics, University of Adelaide, was a PhD candidate when this article was originally written, “Imagining a Complex World: Science, Order and International Relations,” [[http://digital.library.adelaide.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/2440/64044/1/02whole.pdf]] DH)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This chapter argues that </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">still very much with us’.7</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Rosenau asks how major turns and ‘historical discontinuities’ challenge the ‘fundamental structures of world politics’.8 This chapter answers the question by examining how science has framed the discipline. The argument proceeds in six stages. First, the idea of order and anarchy as the foundational starting point for theories of international relations9 is explored. It is argued that the idea of anarchy is representative of a dichotomy built on fear that pervades human cultures, and ordering it becomes a conceptual imperative. Second, power becomes the currency of order. However, it is argued that the manner in which power is conceived will influence how theories of international order are constructed. The third section emphasises that the desire to create a science of international relations is contained within the Newtonian paradigm, with order, anarchy and power neatly fitting into the reductionist model for which they were intended. This is an argument that is primarily pursued via an exploration of the ‘science’ of realism and, to a lesser extent, neoliberal institutionalism. Yet, the ontological essence of the scientific approach often occurs via transference from economics.10 This fourth stage identifies how the economic worldview has significantly contributed to cementing how mainstream international relations is studied and understood.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The final two sections deal … </span>__newly-apparent dynamism and uncertainty__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.’17 </span>

**Their economic model is epistemologically flawed – can’t assign results to competitiveness or economic growth.**
**Schinckus 10** – (2010, Christophe, Ph.D in Financial Economics, professor at the University of Leicester, “Is econophysics a new discipline? The neopositivist argument,” Physica A, elsevier DH)

__Another difference between econophysicists and …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">43 </span>__reality, econophysicists try to describe it__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Linear predictions of deterrent relationships fail – too many variables.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jervis 97</span> – (Robert, professor of international affairs – Columbia, “Complex Systems: The Role of Interactions,” in Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, eds. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">First Interactions: </span>Results Cannot Be … <span style="font-size: 7pt;">to the questions we ask.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Second Interactions: Strategies Depend on the Strategies of Others</span>
<span class="underline0">Further </span>complexities are introduced when … <span style="font-size: 10pt;">American predictions were also inaccurate</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.1</span>


**He agrees with us, not you.**
**Fitzsimmons 07**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Michael, Washington DC defense analyst, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06-07, online)</span>

**__This defence of prediction does …__** __, precludes strategy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. As Betts argues,</span>

**Fitzsimmons doesn’t speak to the necessity of specificity, merely prediction – their approach produces BAD defense planning**
**Yudkowsky, 07** – (Eliezer Yudkowsky, Co-founder and Research Fellow of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence—a non–profit research institute dedicated to increasing the likelihood of, and decreasing the time to, a maximally beneficial singularity, one of the world’s foremost experts on Artificial Intelligence and rationality, “Burdensome Details,” Less Wrong—a moderated community blog about human reasoning curated by the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, September 20th, 2007, Available Online at http://lesswrong.com/lw/jk/burdensome_details/)

__According to probability theory, adding … or implausibly detailed risk scenarios.__


**The alt is key to making GOOD predictions**
**James 96.** Glenn E. James, Major in the US air force, submitted and reviewed by the National War College, Chaos Theory: The Essentials for Military Applications, pg. 63, jk

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Unfortunately, </span>predictions of behaviors and … thermal systems with tremendous success.

**Acquiring information without a method for interpreting it is useless – the alt is a prerequisite.**
**Schmitt 97.** John F. Schmitt, military consultant for the department of defense, major in the USMC, “Command and (Out of) Control: The Military Implications of Complexity Theory, Complexity, Politics, and National Security, pg. 76, jk

<span class="Underline">What is the utility of … with which we must cope.</span>


**The 1AC frames their scenario as a certainty – valuable scenario planning sets initial conditions and allows for variance – their assertion of a single, MOST probable future is flawed.**
**Mietzner 05** – (Dana, Department of Economics and Social Sciences – University of Potsdam, “Advantages and disadvantages of scenario approaches for strategic foresight,” Int. J. Technology Intelligence and Planning, Vol. 1, No. 2)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Firstly, it is again important … </span>**__side by side__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (multiple futures).</span>

**This distinction matters – forecasting is different and fails.**
**Wilkinson 09** – (Angela, director of scenario planning and futures research – James Martin Institute @ University of Oxford, “Scenarios Practices: In Search of Theory,” Journal of Futures Studies, 13(3): p. 107 – 114)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">1. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Scenarios Are Not Forecasts</span>
… <span class="Underline">different</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ontological and </span><span class="Underline">epistemological underpinnings</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">a) Knowledge and ignorance</span>
In forecasting, the emphasis<span class="Underline"> of … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">forecasting can be a fatal error.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Part of the trick, as Molitor puts it, of "paring the number down to the essential or domineering forces that figure pivotally in the calculus of change", can so easily become the problem. If paring down is based solely on Ian Mitroff's uncertaintyimportance grid, which Molitor references as a tool to assist in assessing the validity of generated scenarios, the agreement of uncertainty is usually achieved without attention to ignorance. Agreement using this tool can also overlook implicitly held worldviews and the social construction of ignorance, which goes hand-in-hand with organising in every firm or public sector agency.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Unlike forecasting</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, certain </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">scenario practices</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, e.g. … </span><span class="Underline">expertise and group-think</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Schoemaker, 1993).</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">b) Attention to vocabulary and units of analysis</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In inter-organisational settings, </span>forecasting … <span style="font-size: 7pt;">of the units of analysis.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">c) Deeper understanding</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Scenario practices and forecasting direct … myths and beliefs in play.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Some scholars and practitioners are already suggesting that these different forms of depth and the triad of time (past, present and future) can be incorporated within the ongoing evolution of scenario practices. For example, Inayatullah (2008) demonstrates the role for causal layered analysis for transformative futures thinking and Wilkinson and Eidinow (2008) highlight RIMA – a reflective, interventionist multiagent based approach to scenario practices.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">d) Sustaining constructive disagreement</span>
<span class="Underline">Scenarios practices</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> can also </span><span class="Underline">enable … </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">– sensitivity bounded or </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">probable</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">future.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">e) Plausibility vs. Probable Futures</span>
__In__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">the so-called Shell tradition … </span><span class="Underline">positivist metrics of effectiveness</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Walton, 2008).</span>

**Complexity theory key effective futurism**
**Elkus 09** – (3/22/09, Adam, analyst specializing in foreign policy and security studies, associate editor – Red Team Journal, [[http://redteamjournal.com/2009/03/military-futurism/]])

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Many people are justifiably skeptical … </span>for masking narrative as science.
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Past, Present, and the Art of the Anti-Explanation</span>


**De Mesquita’s predictive model is flawed, the test results are exagerrated, and it can’t account for interacting variables and complexity.**
**Walt 2k** – (2000, Steven, Professor of Political Science and Master of the Social Science Collegiate Division at
the University of Chicago, published … , ed. Michael Edward Brown google books, p. 33-4 DH)

__The predictions__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> derived from the … </span>__model__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> through a detailed quantitative analysis. </span>

**Game theory fails to successfully assess causality – de Mesquita’s method is fatally flawed.**
**Tetlock 98** – (1998, Philip, PhD, Leonore Annenberg University Professor of Psychology and Management at the University of Pennsylvania, “CHAPTER 35: SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY AND WORLD POLITICS,” in D. Gilbert, S. Fiske, & G. Lindzey (eds.), Handbook of social psychology. New York: McGraw Hill. (1998), google scholar DH)

__Thought experiments are, however, more …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">surface frequently in security debates. </span>

**Their argument is false scientism and doesn’t apply to our k**
**Osinga 05** – (Frans, PhD, colonel – Royal Netherlands Air Force, “Science, Strategy and War: The Strategic Theory of John Boyd,” Eburon Academic Publishers)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span><span class="Underline">complexity and dynamic nature … </span>human affairs<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> is somewhat paradoxical93.</span>


=Round 5= 
===Space Qritiq=== 
<span class="Underline">**State-focused space exploration is a propaganda project that fosters passivity in order to insinuate a corporate-militaristic zombie culture against the autonomist potential of AAA astronautics zero-gravity liberation**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**The Time Traveler 12** (published in … </span>)

<span class="Underline">“Any state program of … Process Network of Neverending Freedom. </span>

**The enactment of identity via this project of control codes is an attempt to own the void, to declare control over abstraction. The positing of space as an abstract hypothetical in which to enact institutional projects reifies the Cartesian dualism that enslaves the mind to the body and grounds the potential for nuclear violence against indigenous peoples**

**__Burch ’95__** Mark, Anarchives Volume 2 Issue 20 //Language Is A Virus// “The Biosemiotics of Consumer Fascism” http://www.hackcanada.com/canadian/zines/anarchives/anarchives_2_20.txt
**__The totality and integrity of the biosemiotic__** //…// **__horse back before the cart.__**

===**__Dualism K__**=== 
**The perspective of the detached observer is based in the newtonian externalization of the observer and replicates flawed cartesian dualism.**
**Adam 98** – (1998, Barbara, PhD, Professor Emeritus of Social Sciences at the University of Cardiff, “Timescapes of Modernity,” p. 42 DH)

__Equally far-reaching is the … **more appropriate to contemporary conditions.**__

**Focusing on climate change is a reductionist approach and it’s effects masks the ecological problems in the system as a whole.**
**Crist 07** – (Eileen Crist, professor of science and technology studies at Virginia Tech, “Beyond the Climate Crisis: A Critique of Climate Change Discourse” Telos 141 Winter 2007 pg. 33-36)

While <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the dangers of climate … </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">destruction of life on Earth.</span>**</span>

**The mechanistic worldview results in extinction from war, oppression, and environmental destruction.** 
**Nhanenge 07** – (2007, Jytte, MA in Philosophy at the University of South Africa, “Ecofeminism: Towards Integrating the Concerns of Women, Poor People, and Nature into Development,” published by University Press, available online, DH)

__The problem is that modernism … of a **potentially terminal nature**__. (Ekins 1992: 203-207).

**The alternative is Smuts’ Holism – viewing the world through a combined ecological and holistic approach allows us to appreciate the inherent complexity of the environment** 
**Nhanenge 07** – (2007, Jytte, MA in Philosophy at the University of South Africa, “Ecofeminism: Towards Integrating the Concerns of Women, Poor People, and Nature into Development,” published by University Press, available online, DH)

__It is worthwhile here to … systems__. (Capra 1982: 27-28; Kotze and Kotze 1995: 18-19, 24). 

===**__Warming CP__**=== 
**Counterplan Text:** The United States federal government should fully fund a program to cover 4.8% of the surface of the Earth’s oceans in a monolayer of 0.1 μm diameter latex particles, either hollow, or of core-shell morphology, bearing a conventional stabilization system that is inactivated in salt water.

**Solves warming, only costs $2 billion, and avoids all solvency deficits associated with traditional ocean albedo modifications.**
**Morgan 11** – (10/8/11, John, PhD in physical chemistry, runs R&D programmes at a Sydney startup company, research experience in chemical engineering in the US and at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australia's national science agency, “Low intensity geoengineering – microbubbles and microspheres,” [[http://bravenewclimate.com/2011/10/08/low-intensity-geoengineering-microbubbles-and-microspheres/]] DH)

Is there another way to … __the contribution from multiple scattering)__.
4.8% of a whole ocean monolayer is 8.3×108 kg of dry polymer, or about 1.7×109 kg wet latex. At say $1.20 per kg, this would cost $2.0 billion and account for 17% of 2005 global production capacity.
__This is, surprisingly, well within reach. **$2.…** well inside existing production capacity.__
Conclusion
__So consider this final elaboration of Russell Seitz’ bright idea: 0.1 μm diameter latex particles, possibly hollow, or of core-shell morphology, bearing a conventional stabilization system that is inactivated in salt water ensuring that the particles are retained at and near the surface, are produced in bulk using about 17% of existing production capacity and using commercial recipes, and are sprayed onto the sea from tanks aboard ships or crop dusting aircraft, oil rigs, and other structures, in the mid latitudes.__
**For a cost in the order …** microbubble concept, are also possible. 

===__Democracy PIK__=== 
**Counteradvocacy – we advocate the entirety of the 1AC sans their rhetoric of “democratization”**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The rhetoric of democracy is already racialized – the purpose is to clear the land to rebuild it in the image of white supremacy.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Martinot 10</span> (Steve Martinot. The Machinery of Whiteness Studies in the Structure of Racialization. 2010.)

__“Bringing__ civilization” or “__democracy__” … __implanted on the “cleared land.__”

**Every instance of racism must be rejected.**
**Memmi 2k** - <span class="ShrinkText">(Albert, Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ U of Paris, Naiteire, Racism, Translated by Steve Martinot, p. 163-165)</span>

The struggle against racism will … , but the stakes are irresistible.

===__Case__=== 
**No solvency – scientists can’t interpret satellite data** 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Psychology Press 1</span> (No date, The environment encyclopedia and directory 2001, “Antarctic Ozone Hole” Vol. 3 google book,, asb)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The international</span>__scientific community was … fundamentally responsible for the hold’.__ 

**Agency disputes derails solvency** 
**Wigbels et. al, 8** – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)
Though these efforts are a laudable … <span class="Underline">a national budget </span>sufficient to implement it.

**Satellites can’t solve climate data**
**Wigbels et. al, 8** – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)

However, U.S. <span class="Underline">Earth observation systems are … needs of national security decisionmakers.</span>


=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]