[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


Every time I speak, I want the truth to come out. Every time I speak I want everyone to shiver, I want them to expect what I’m saying because they know its tru too and even if I get in trouble, ain't that what we supposed to do?

This is hard but I speak the truth inspired to teach the youth transportation means to transport anything and that assumes to transfer or convey from one place to another. Every time we move from point A to point B we engage in a loss of culture and identity but gain more experiences that hurt us to strengthen us. The resolution demands that we increase these same ideas but we continue to skirt the discussion of what has shaped our past and what we deal with In our present. Africans were transported from queens and kings, griots and sculptors, man and womyn to someone’s property until death. We woke up in the middle of the night to the sound of shrill screams and cries and hid the disease from our masters eyes. We stood and turned told our kin not to cry because if they shed a tear its us who dies. We pulled and turned the soil, orally recitin our history, our black gold, we laid the tracks for the transportation they needed so john henry could die against their wicked machinery, we transported fallen soldiers from bed to tombstone and engraved their names in our hearts and prayed with moonstones. And our hands to the sky but still dyin on the inside because they wanted some movement so the dozen times witness became my eyes. No longer sub-human, we are now unworldly with bird feet and goat teeth made to be effin machines, rape my wife, hear me scream, call my daughter the nigger queen, everyone cries tears but who cries blood, when are ducts are empty from the burning sun. The middle passage. I congratulate you for movement but not only did you displace our bodies but had a genocidal tournament.
Now forget blood tears, do you see the bloods and the crips here, but I have no fear, stand my ground or bullets scrape my ear. Cut me with shears, walk down my block look there, smoke dat pot do it do it, scratch from foot to hair I mean, I don’t play celo but the boys play with me look at me with there eyes like i'm another black ebony I mean, I try and transport myself to a happy place but the cop sirens and screams of the fiends do not care I mean, I love to be loved but what is love in a heartless world where neighbors get sniped walkin out their doors, I can say..i'm a normal teenager but I mean a normal being black cause my partner too lives this horrible fantasies, will you ever feel me see where i'm coming from because I know you can never be me, or tell me..when my mom get slapped black bruises on her face I mean she is brown skin so It was lookin fifty shades of grey but no one was there with bucket to catch any tears and no one was there to stop my father and no one was there to transport what really needed to be transported but yes…I like mass transit, I like bicycles, I like airports, I like hydrogen, because this will get me out the hood…the education I learn here will got me speakin that good I will be able to beat my father with the words right out the hood and spell myself a mansion and put it by the pool. Sike I had you really fooled I may be black but I refused to be tooled. I'm ignored tell me my words are worthless but that aint cool the only thing worthless is the money we gotta hide in our shoes. I am empowered, aint complainin only relatin spittin some lyrics that got you contemplatin, hear my lived experiences, let ya education start deterioratin, form some new ideas that aren't just time alleviatin. I am that source of knowledge backed by a million ancestral authors, hear my father and my fathers father and my mother and my mothers mother and my sister and my brother and brother from another mother when I screaammm these original sly keys and interrupt ya spaces of hegemony. Hands and feet shackled as if things never changed. projects are called just those because people within them are seen as nothing more than experimental to the gov't, enemies against enemies bullets flyin and bodies droppin and unless we're shootin they don't notice us. When you wanna transport somethin transport me out the hood then maybe I can say ya solvency is good
Modern day transportation got single mothers movin from takin care of children to their low payin jobs to slave for the system to get its feces in return. Its easy to say lets fund for this and that when we don’t even know the people who we fundin to work, the lives they live, feelings that lurk. Transportation at this day and age is not even safe, I’ve walked home from a debate tournament late at night getting off the train not a cop in sight jus black people tryna get high, guards up adrenaline coursing through your veins because you don't know if you'll reach your home alive hearing faint voices behind you askin your age or saying the obvious, you don't belong out here its not safe. Crowded buses and trains filled wit diversity but how oblivious are you to the people you see. It seems our minds are old enough to identify what someone is, but apparently we still don’t know who they are. Yet we code switch and code switch as we take off our sweats and put on our uniforms for school then take that off and slacks for work and our suit for interviews as we transport and transport, but where can we be who we are, and produce our knowledge. Today transportation is nothing representation of the slave ships that transported all of us from our culture. We need some 5th element of hip hop, knowledge of self. We know who we are, so you can know who we are, so we can change what WE live
Apparently i'm an advantage, because all these 1ac’s seem to solve for me. But little did I know that these affs are what we really need. People want me to jump on affs like it’s my trusty steed but to hell wit all dat I prefer to walk on my feet. You want some authors that I don’t know to tell me what I need. Then you wanna say they solve for me, but how they gone solve for me when they don’t even know me, can't identify with a word I said while we wrap this round in our gold sheet. Everyone’s 1ac is quote on quote chrome slick impenetrable to anything when they don’t even know me, all I hears a bunch of theory because they already told me. 1…2…3…4…5.. years ago i've heard it even before me. We solve for heg, we solve for econ, we solve for warming we solve for you. False claims with fake judicial lanes, all fairy tales in this debate community will be uncovered myths and fiat exposed the truth magnified and the greatest reality of the pain etched into black people's lives will be discovered. cases are regurgitation that doesn't do anything for the community, they should not be able to claim solvency with their methods. they are all stuck in a theoretical world where things will be wished away yet we condone it like fiat exists just take some time and scope in and break away these chains. The status quo’s the same cause the 1ac’s don’t change but when we rip open some space for change our thought is not the right way. But if they not changin where’s the ultimatum, we are the choice we are the option that’s what we creatin. Doctor Shanara Reid-Brinkley already said it…we need to incorporate our identity in order to evaluate the real truth claims. And Warren and Fasset even went beyond this…when you don’t incorporate and identity and become identity-less, that fluidity is an embodiment of whiteness. That’s why it is important for us to take into account the stories of those who have been a victim of the system and be marginalized. way too often policies are ignoring those who it affect the most. Politics doesn’t wanna listen cuz it got no love for us ghetto children there’s no place in the hood where people can voice their opinions, policies will never succeed unless they encounter lived experiences of growing up in poverty, living in danger of police brutality because of the way you look, pants low hoodies on in hopes to escape but seen as a menace to society.
Imagine this world if we didn’t know each other…it would like like the shit it is now…it would look like the past that was then…christian muslim crusades, two groups didn’t understand one another…jewish holocaust, groups didn’t understand each other..mayan and inca extinction, miscommunication and lack of understanding…hate crimes/racism people have no understanding, no context of who anyone is, so we can only speculate and formulate our own opinions. So I kno black people like basketball and football and 16 and pregnant and smashin hoes while chillin wit da bros and droppin out of college to get dough cuz thas what the t.v told me, but what have we told you. It’s vivid without this pluralism and diversity there is only pain misery and death
This is why Tyler and I advocate to energize the db8 space