[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==VIRILIO 1AC - MN STATE== 

This year’s topical discussion contains many taken foregranted understandings and notions of transportation that facilitate not only our political actions and ideologies, but how we think of movement and how we actually move. The prioritization of speed and acceleration in our culture is not just one more cue for advertising campaigns, but THE singular structuring factor in our military, economic, and psychological grounds of being: speed eradicates distance, but without increasing our connections with each other or with our environment. Quite the opposite: speed of light technology and mass mobilization results not in liberation but in INCARCERATION. We begin our affirmation today with a demand for a POLITICAL ECONOMY OF SPEED. Analyzing, understanding, and ultimately slowing down society’s momentum is the only way to properly distribute our endless desire for mobilization and militaristic acceleration. 

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Virilio and Lotringer, 2002</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> –</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School; Professor Emertius of philosophy at Columbia (Paul and Sylvere, crepuscular dawn, verso, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> pg 59-64) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">And now </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">we … like the theater</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Transportation infrastructure as we understand it is reliant on a direct tradeoff of money for blood- accumulation of human-made capital in vast quantities has a zero-sum tradeoff with natural capital</span>
<span class="Author-Date"> </span>
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bark et al. 06</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 5pt;">(Peter, TFK Transport Research Institute, Kaj Elgstrange was a researcher in work physiology and ergonomics in Stockholm 1964-1968, then worked as an associate expert in ergonomics at the University of Cauca, Colombia, Johan Ernberg, MEEE, worked for the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) in various positions since 1968Winston Gereluk worked for the trade unions in Canada in research, education and public relations for 26 years. He is Academic Coordinator for Industrial Relations & Human Resources programs at Athabasca University, since 1999. He has represented the international trade union movement at the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development, Leif Hambraeus, MD PhD, was Professor of Human Nutrition, Faculty of Medicine, Uppsala University from 1971 to 2001 and since 2002 has been Professor Emeritus at the Dept of Biosciences and Nutrition, Unit for Preventive Nutrition, at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Bo Johansson is a M.A. in social sciences, religion and anthropologyTord Kjellstrom is part-time Professor, National Institute of Public Health, Stockholm, Casten von Otter is a sociologist, and Professor at the Swedish National Institute for Working Life, Nils Petersson is Master of Science in Production Engineering (Civ ing) and Ergonomics, Sven-Erik Pettersson is an occupational safety and health engineer in agriculture and forestry, Jukka Takala is currently the Director of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work in Bilbao, SpainAdrienne Taylor was Regional Secretary for the Asia Pacific region for Public Services International Professor emeritus Ulf Ulfvarson, MSc, PhD, graduated in chemistry at the Royal Institute of Technology and was researcher in various positions in the Swedish chemical industry. Associate Professor Stefan de Vylder is a Swedish economist who currently works as an independent researcher and consultant Professor Ronald Wennersten, MSc, PhD graduated in Chemical Engineering from Lund University, “OSH &Development,” November 2006 pg. 29-30)</span>
The concept of …<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> to gains in material well being.</span>

Furthermore, this obsession with speed prioritizes a reality in which mass media reigns. This drives our collectivity towards behaviors of fear and vengeance. The affirmative’s disadvantages are part of a mob mentality of catastrophism where the presence of catastrophic events is driven by our desire for them.

**__Virilio, 2006__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Ecole Speciale d’Architecture, Paris, France, Translated by Chris Turner, July, Volume 3 Number 6 The Museum of Accidents)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">So, just as</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">…</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> now to exhibit the accident.</span>

Thus we affirm the following advocacy: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase investment in non-mobility based transportation infrastructure in the United States. 

This affirmation of heretofore unconceptualized terrains of transportation infrastructure forms a rupture in the current consciousness of simple political action. One of the most glaring examples of our obsession with speed is the need for the quick decision. We open up our mobility obsessed society to a process of discussion and technological re-examination. Concrete action is a must in this case: slow down society, vote for the affirmative plan as a brake on our current ways of understanding, deciding on, and practicing transportation infrastructure. 

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Glezos 2009</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - </span>Ph.D. in political theory and international relations from Johns Hopkins University, now works in the department of political science at University of Regina ([[http://www.lib.umich.edu/articles/search?author=Glezos%2C%20Simon|Simon]], “The politics of speed: Capitalism, the state and war in an accelerating world” [dissertation] pg. 93-94)

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The goal then …</span> the (Globalitarian) state.



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lastly, politics should be the domain of action. Rejections of politics or out and out flights into the realm of the virtual are only complicit. Our reclaiming of the political space for examination of the way speed effects time in the realm of transportation redeems human possibility from its extinction in informational and speed-based politics.</span>
<span class="Author-Date"> </span>
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Drake 97</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Mick, University of Hull, “The Question of Military Technology: Apocalyptics or Politics?” 1/30/97 </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://nideffer.net/proj/_SPEED_/1.4/articles/drake.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Virilio does not follow … state in general becomes so.</span>
==NEOLIB 1AC - MN SECTION 4== 

====Contention 1 is the machine==== 

====Status quo implementation of transportation infrastructure is profoundly neo-liberal. Policy makers focus on market mechanisms and privatization. This leads to racism and social exclusion:==== 

**Farmer** Sociology Dep~’t Roosevelt University **2011** Stephanie Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA Environment and Planning http://envplan.com/epa/fulltext/a43/a43409.pdf

Contemporary urbanization processes are strongly shaped by the logic and policies of neoliberalism. Neoliberal
AND
the logic of markets through public - private partnerships or outright privatization. The
creative-destructive processes of neoliberal state strategy reconfigure the territorial organization of accumulation,
AND
generated tax revenues as well as intensifying intercity competition (Harvey, 1989).
Cities starved by neoliberal state restructuring responded to their fiscal troubles by adopting entrepreneurial norms
AND
van Kempen, 2000; Sassen 1991; Swyngedouw et al, 2002).
The business-friendly policies and practices pursued by entrepreneurial urban governments must also be
AND
world-class city~’ formation (McGuirk, 2004; Wilson, 2004).









====1: Scenario one is geography==== 

====a. Uneven geography planning reflects deeply ingrained racism—it is fundament to the symbolic and practical manifestation of racism in the U.S.==== 

Environmental Justice Resource Center, "Suburban Sprawl and Transportation Racism," The Black Commentator, September 23rd, 2004 ([[http://www.blackcommentator.com/106/106_transportation_racism.html-http://www.blackcommentator.com/106/106_transportation_racism.html]])

In the United States, all communities do not receive the same benefits from transportation
AND
transportation infrastructure, they receive only about 10 percent of every dollar they generate


====b. Ethical responsibility is key to the pursuit of justice. We cannot compromise justice for other values without compromising everything==== 

M. Cherif Bassiouni, Distinguished Professor, Law and President, International Human Rights Law Institute, Depaul University, ""The Role of Justice in Building Peace": Justice and Peace: The Importance of Choosing Accountability Over Realpolitik," CASE WESTERN RESERVE JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL LAW v. 35, Spring 2003, p, 191-192.


~~[*191~~] At the end of the Second World War, the world
AND
represents a short-term vision of expediency over more enduring human values.

====c. The impact is racism—creates a possibility for war and genocide. The Biopoltical machine creates the ability to manage life.==== 
Eduardo Mendieta, SUNY-Stony Brook, "~’To Make Live and to Let Die~’—Foucault on Racism," Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting, Chicago IL, April 25, 2002. Available from the World Wide Web at: [[www.sunysb.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf-http://www.sunysb.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf]], accessed 11/5/05.
This is where racism intervenes, not from without, exogenously, but from within
AND
its enemies. To protect society entails we be ready to kill its threats







====2. Scenario 2 is the welfare state==== 

====a. Managing the life others is a instance of Devaluing the welfare states creates endorses the rationalization of biopolitics where entire populations are seen as valueless==== 
Giroux, 2006, (Henry A. Giroux, "Reading Hurricane Katrina:Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability", 2006, [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/college_literature/v033/33.3giroux.html-http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/college_literature/v033/33.3giroux.html]]
A new politics now governs American policy, one that I call the politics of
AND
consumers, they are reified as products without value and then disposed of.

====b. The impact—The Neo-machine allows for the sacrifice of the periphery leading to the extinction of everything==== 

Boaventura de Sousa Santos director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra. "Collective Suicide?" Bad Subjects ~~%23 63. 2003 [[http:bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html-http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html]]

According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under the illusion that
AND
war. The machine of democracy and liberty turns into a machine of horror




====Thus we offer the following plan:==== 

====The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment by providing free and accessible mass transit.==== 





Contention 2: Solvency

1. We are the puppet and the government is our master we are confirmed as dead before we are born only through addressing political discourse so can we cut the strings and regain political agency.

Giroux, 2006, (Henry A. Giroux, "Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability", 2006, [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/college_literature/v033/33.3giroux.html-http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/college_literature/v033/33.3giroux.html]]
I want to further this position by arguing that neoliberalism, privatization, and militarism
AND
urgent by the destruction, politics, and death that followed Hurricane Katrina.
they need to perform as autonomous political agents. I want to expand the reach of this debate by arguing that any struggle against neoliberalism must address the discourse of political agency, civic education, and cultural politics as part of a broader struggle over the relationship between democratization

====2. The Federal Government has resources to act but racist policies cause inaction rendering populations as invisible==== 

Giroux, 2006, (Henry A. Giroux, "Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability", 2006, [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/college_literature/v033/33.3giroux.html-http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/college_literature/v033/33.3giroux.html]]
Soon after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast, the consequences of the long legacy
AND
to disappear into prisons, ghettos, and the black hole of despair.
The Bush administration was not simply unprepared for Hurricane Katrina as it denied that the
AND
of socially homeless that allegedly no longer existed in color-blind America.


====3. We need the government to take responsibility for the racial images it has created by doing so we confront them in a way in which they cant escape the accountability.==== 

Giroux, 2006, (Henry A. Giroux, "Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability", 2006, [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/college_literature/v033/33.3giroux.html-http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/college_literature/v033/33.3giroux.html]]


From the beginning of the Civil Rights Movement to the war in Vietnam, images
AND
helpless—suggests that the elderly and critically ill plummeted to the bottom of
priority lists as calamity engulfed New Orleans (Jackson 2005). Dead people, mostly
AND
insinuating themselves on consciousness, demanding answers to questions that aren~’t often asked.








**====4. Free and accessible public transportation creates the conditions for broad movements against neo-liberalism while breaking down the political norms of the neoliberal project====**

**Schein** Assistant Prof Human Rights – The Institute of Interdisciplinary Studies at Carleton **2011** Rebecca Free Transit and Social Movement Infrastructure: Assessing the Political Potential of Toronto~’s Nascent Free Transit Campaign Alternate Routes volume 22 http://www.alternateroutes.ca/index.php/ar/article/view/14421

The demand for free and accessible public transit has the potential not only to
AND
skills, and relationships that might permit us to really depart from the prevailing



====Contention 3: Framework==== 

====OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO REVERSE RACISM OUTWEIGHS OTHER CONCERNS.==== 

====SOMETIMES WE HAVE TO DO SOMETHING BECAUSE TO DO ANYTHING ELSE WOULD LOWER US. SOMETIMES RISKS AND BENEFITS, STRATEGY, AND PROCEDURAL PLANNING ARE NOT RELEVANT.==== 

====WE WILL ARGUE THAT DISADS AND NEARLY ALL COUNTERPLANS MISS THE POINT… AFFIRMING THE PLAN IS A NECESSARY PREREQUISITE TO ALL GOALS WORTH HAVING.==== 

====1. Ethics come first, prioritizing human lives over others is the first step in complicity==== 
Claudia Card, "The Atrocity Paradigm: A Theory of Evil" Oxford University Press, 2002

The writings of Nietzsche have tempted many to demote moral values to a low ranking
AND
one potential outcome of failing to meet moral challenges within a gray zone.

====2. Even if Atrocity is Inevitable- We need to try to find ways to better live in the face of Atrocity==== 

Claudia Card, "The Atrocity Paradigm: A Theory of Evil" Oxford University Press, 2002

Concern about large-scale and in some cases unprecedented atrocities during my lifetime motivates
AND
knowledge and with the aftermath of evils we fail to prevent or escape.




====3. Only retaining our personal moral sensibilities can break the cycle of evil… if you rationalize away your sensibilities, there~’s no way to combat evil.==== 

Claudia Card, "The Atrocity Paradigm: A Theory of Evil" Oxford University Press, 2002

My interest is especially in the dangers of deterioration for victims who have already developed
AND
destroy this promise as well as goodness in the soul of the individual.

====4. This is the worst possible impact==== 

Claudia Card, "The Atrocity Paradigm: A Theory of Evil" Oxford University Press, 2002

Moral conclusions to draw from the gray zone are not simply about its inhabitants but
AND
when they think they have failed, the chain of evil is broken.



====5. Utilitarian and Deontological ethics both fail to account for Evil… they Rationalize our reactions to events into Rules—— which does violence to our intuitive sense of evil.==== 

Stephen De Wijze 2002 (Defining Evil: Insights from the Problem of "Dirty Hands," The Monist. Volume: 85. Issue: 2)

This paper, then, explores an account of the qualitative nature of evil,
AND
-of-affairs which might be characterised as evil (Section V).



====Discussions of things like nuclear war AND global war mask the plight of structural violence in a way that fails to realize the thermonuclear war being pitted against the poor every single day.==== 

Mumia Abu Jamal indicates – Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998 ~~["A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE," 9/19/98, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm-http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]~~]


It has often been observed that America is a truly violent nation, as shown
AND
away, so that their great and terrible violence passes away with them.


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]