If you need Neg. Cites email clyde.shepherd.2@gmail.com if you need aff. cites email tannerlewis1@gmail.com

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
[[toc]]
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">

</span>
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">1ACs</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Wake</span>=== 

Advantage 1 Economy

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Lack of job growth and stimulus leaves the US economy weak- comparatively worse than previous recessions</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Paul Wiseman, 8/15/12 (Economic writer at Associated Press, "Economic recovery is weakest since World War II,” Yahoo News, [[http://news.yahoo.com/economic-recovery-weakest-since-world-war-ii-152031546--finance.html|__http://news.yahoo.com/economic-recovery-weakest-since-world-war-ii-152031546--finance.html__]])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">America's gross domestic product …. who could help with the job search.</span>







<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The plan generates a massive economic stimulus -loan guarantees are the most effective catalyst for widespread investment</span>
<span style="color: #191aa3; display: block; text-align: justify;">Margaronis, 08 [Marine highway would ride wave of economic benefits, Stas, Guest Columnist Seattle Pi, [[http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php%22%20%5Cl%20%22ixzz1yY1CGarw|__http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php#ixzz1yY1CGarw__]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Currently, the United States is experiencing low …. costs for shippers and consumers.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Stimulus good—numbers prove the first worked, we just need a bigger stimulus</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Benen 6-7-12- Article refers to Elmendorf, director of the Congressional (Steve, “Case closed: the stimulus worked”, The Maddow Blog, June 7, 2012, [[http://maddowblog.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2012/06/07/12104923-case-closed-the-stimulus-worked?lite)//sjl|__http://maddowblog.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2012/06/07/12104923-case-closed-the-stimulus-worked?lite)//sjl__]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">For another, on a substantive/policy-driven level….. comes from the left -- it was too small.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Fiscal stimulus doesn’t cause runaway inflation – it enters a steady state</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Evans 11 Professor of economics and finance at the Univ of Oregon ( George W. April 2, 2011, The Stagnation Regime of the New Keynesian Model and Recent US Policy [[http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~gevans/stickystag2april2011r.pdf%20,%2006/19/12|__http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~gevans/stickystag2april2011r.pdf , 06/19/12__]])</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">In the stagnation regime…. back of government expenditure.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Inflation spurs growth—solves risk aversion and stimulates the economy.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Mirhaydari 10 — Anthony Mirhaydari, investment columnist at MSN Money, former senior research analyst at Markman Capital Insight—an investment advisory and money management firm, 2010 (“No Inflation Means No Recovery,” MSN Money, September 8th, Available Online at [[http://articles.moneycentral.msn.com/Investing/Extra/mirhaydari-no-inflation-means-no-recovery.aspx?page=all|__http://articles.moneycentral.msn.com/Investing/Extra/mirhaydari-no-inflation-means-no-recovery.aspx?page=all__]], Accessed 09-08-2011)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The problem is extreme risk aversion….. Japanese-style deflationary spiral.</span>


Austerity hurts the economy-Europe proves

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__[[http://thinkprogress.org/author/pat-g/|Garofalo]]__ on 7-3-12 (Pat, is Economic Policy Editor for ThinkProgress.org at the Center for American Progress Action Fund. Pat’s work has also appeared in The Nation, U.S. News & World Report, The Guardian, the Washington Examiner, and In These Times. He has been a guest on MSNBC and Al-Jazeera television, as well as many radio shows. Pat graduated from Brandeis University, where he was the editor-in-chief of The Brandeis Hoot, Brandeis’ community newspaper, and worked for the International Center for Ethics, Justice, and Public Life, “[[http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/07/30/605971/chart-how-state-and-local-budget-cuts-are-holding-back-gdp-growth/|__CHART: How State And Local Budget Cuts Are Holding Back GDP Growth__]]”, [[http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/07/30/605971/chart-how%20state-and-local-budget-cuts-are-holding-back-gdp-growth/?mobile=nc|__http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/07/30/605971/chart-how state-and-local-budget-cuts-are-holding-back-gdp-growth/?mobile=nc__]])</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">As ThinkProgress has noted …for more European-style austerity.</span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Congestion will only get worse in the status quo—Marine highways are key to solve</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration 11 (“America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 [[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)NJain|__http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)//NJain//__]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Traffic congestion imposes serious ….is less used than the other.//</span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Congestion underlies a multibillion dollar drag on the economy – chokes any possible recovery//</span>
<span style="color: #191aa3; display: block; text-align: justify;">//Needham 11 [Vicki, The Hill, Report: Traffic congestion costs billions, weighs on the economic recovery,// [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/184105-report-traffic-congestion-costs-billions-weighs-on-the-economic-recovery%5D|__//http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/184105-report-traffic-congestion-costs-billions-weighs-on-the-economic-recovery]//__]] //TJ//</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Traffic congestion is costing billions …. not a productive option.”//</span>





<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Economic decline causes war – studies prove//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Royal 10 [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Less intuitive is how periods …. economic-security debate and deserves more attention.//</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//We can’t abandon growth- only technology can solve their impacts//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//AtKisson, former executive editor of In Context: A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture, 2003//</span>
<span style="color: #191aa3; display: block; text-align: justify;">//(Alan, “Sustainability is Dead— Long Live Sustainability”, 3-20,// [[http://www.rrcap.unep.org/uneptg06/course/Robert/SustainabilityManifesto2001.pdf|__//http://www.rrcap.unep.org/uneptg06/course/Robert/SustainabilityManifesto2001.pdf//__]]//)//</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//At precisely the moment when humanity’s science, … we can never stop.//</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Advantage 2 Naval Power**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//The shipbuilding industry is collapsing now//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Munoz, 11 [January 11, The Obama Infrastructure Plan, and Another Shipyard Closes, OP-ED by Tony Munoz, Editor-in-Chief of the Maritime ExecutiveMagazine and the MarEx Newsletter,// [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes|__//http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes//__]]//]//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//As President Obama announced his robust infrastructure …, mass transportation, and health care for the poor. Imagine….//</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Title XI would stimulate the shipbuilding industry//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Goure, 11 [Lexington Institute, Obama Could Create Jobs And Support Defense, Daniel, PhD,// [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171|__//http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171//__]]//]//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//A less well recognized candidate for … money behind the MHI.//</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//A strong shipbuilding industry is key to naval power//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Alberto, et al., 5 (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005,// [[http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf|__//http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf//__]]//, Deech)//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//In conclusion, our study found … value to the nation of the vessel.//</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Increased naval strength is critical to avert war over Taiwan//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Vego, 11 — professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “CHINA'S Naval Challenge”, United States Naval Institute, Proceedings, 137, 4, pg. 36-40, April 2011, proquest, Deech)//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//A conventional war in East Asia …shallow western Pacific waters.//</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//U.S. – China war over Taiwan guarantees nuclear war//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//Glaser 11 [Charles Glaser – PHD from Harvard in International Relations Theory and International Security Policy -- Professor of Political Science and International Affairs Director, Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at George Washington University “Will China’s Rise lead to War?” March/April 2011http://[[http://web.clas.ufl.edu/users/zselden/coursereading2011/Glaser.pdf|__//web.clas.ufl.edu/users/zselden/coursereading2011/Glaser.pdf//__]] SMerchant]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The prospects for avoiding intense military competition ….general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.</span>






<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Naval superiority is the foundation of U.S. Geopolitical dominance</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Stratfor 8 - world's leading private intelligence firm, clients range from Fortune 500 companies to international government agencies, 8-5-8 (“U.S. Naval Dominance and the Importance of the Oceans,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/ana|__http://www.stratfor.com/ana__]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">lysis/u_s_naval_dominance_and_importance_oceans)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The geographic position of the United States, … Atlantic and Pacific.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Heg collapse causes great power war</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Kagan 12, Robert, senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution [“Why the World Needs America,” February 11th, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html|__http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html__]]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">With the outbreak of World War I, … American order came into being.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Independently Navy keeps every scenario for conflict in check</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">NLUS 12 (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity,” 2012 [[http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf)#SPS|__http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf)#SPS__]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Global engagement is critical … must be a national imperative.</span>





<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">US intervention is inevitable it is only a question of effectiveness</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Shalmon and Horowitz 09 (Dan, Graduate Student in the PhD Program in Political Science - International Relations at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Mike, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania- Philadelphia, Orbis, Spring)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">It is important to recognize … given America’s role in the global order.24</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Heg is sustainable and good if we have a strong military and economy- they don’t assume these factors</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Kagan 12 (Robert, is an American historian, author and foreign policy commentator at the Brookings Institution. He is a co-founder of the now-defunct neoconservative political organization Project for the New American Century, Not Fade Away: The myth of American decline, [[http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/magazine/99521/america-world-power-declinism?page=0,0|__http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/magazine/99521/america-world-power-declinism?page=0,0__]])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Is the United States in decline, … of power over the course of a half-century.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Thus the Plan:</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The United States federal government should expand United States Maritime Administration Title XI loan guarantee funding for short sea transportation in the United States.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Solvency</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Title XI Loan Guarantees are key to effective marine highways</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration 11</span>
<span style="color: #191aa3; display: block; text-align: justify;">(“America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 [[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf|__http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf__]])</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The Title XI Federal Ship … shoreside infrastructure owners.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Title XI is key to SSS- and there links are non-unique</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Cook, 12 [H. Clayton Cook, Esq. has been involved with Jones Act issues for more than 40 years and served as General Counsel of the Maritime Administration from 1970-1973. He is currently Counsel to Seward & Kissel LLP in Washington, DC.</span>
<span style="color: #191aa3; display: block; text-align: justify;">The Dual-Use Vessel Program and Americas Marine Highway Next Steps, [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/the-dual-use-vessel-program-and-america-s-marine-highway-next-steps|__http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/the-dual-use-vessel-program-and-america-s-marine-highway-next-steps__]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">“Short Sea Shipping” and AMH</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">A MarAd and Department of Transportation (… of government start-up assistance. ¶</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**And, the plan reduces risk and creates the financial backing necessary for short sea shipping**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Margaronis, 08** [Green Ships Can Fight Global Warming, president of California-based Santa Maria Shipowning & Trading Inc, p. online document retrieved via a google download, full text email [[mailto:alexanderdpappas@gmail.com|__alexanderdpappas@gmail.com__]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__A loan guarantee is ….__ to build ships.</span>




===Hooch=== 


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Economy Adv.</span>
**The recovery is fragile now**
**Xinhua News, 5/23/12** [OECD: Global Economy Recovery Fragile, reprinted, [[http://english.cri.cn/6826/2012/05/23/191s701502.htm]]]
__The **global economy** has …__ of income inequality."


**MTS is key to trade which drives the economy-the squo is insufficient**
**Lobiondo, et al 11** [Congressional Testimony, Frank A. LoBiondo is the U.S. Representative for New Jersey's 2nd congressional district, serving since 1995. He is a member of the Republican Party, CREATING JOBS AND INCREASING U.S. EXPORTS BY ENHANCING THE MARINE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON COAST GUARD AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION, COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:BIbLMqrPg5gJ:www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg66919.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us]]]
__In order to remain **…** global trade__. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.



**Trade stops conflict escalation—individuals won’t risk opportunity costs**
**Kleinberg et al 12**
__(Kleinberg, Katja B., Robinson, Gregory, French, Stewart L., professors at Binghamton University and Saginaw Valley State University, March 2012, “Trade Concentration and Interstate Conflict”, The Journal of Politics, p. 529-40)FS__
__In the most commonly … of interstate conflict.__



**Congestion will only get worse in the status quo—Marine highways are key to solve**
**U.S. D**epartment **of T**ransportation **M**aritime **A**dministration **11** (“America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)//NJain//

//__Traffic congestion imposes … used than the other.__//




//**Congestion underlies a multibillion dollar drag on the economy – chokes any possible recovery**//
//**Needham 11** [Vicki, The Hill, Report: Traffic congestion costs billions, weighs on the economic recovery, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/184105-report-traffic-congestion-costs-billions-weighs-on-the-economic-recovery] TJ//

//Traffic __congestion is costing … nothing is not a productive option.”__//


//**Congestion causes air pollution**//
//**Bobylev 07-** Professor of Economics at United Nations University, (N., “SUSTAINABILITY AND VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS OF CRITICAL UNDERGROUND INFRASTRUCTURE”, Springer: Managing Critical Infrastructure Risks, 2007, Chapter 26, pages 445-469)//PN
__Air pollution in cities …due to road congestion__ [22].


**Air pollutions causes irreversible damage and threatens extinction-err towards caution**
**Driesen 03** (David, Associate Professor, Syracuse University College of Law. J.D. Yale Law School, 1989, Fall/Spring, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, lexis) __Air pollution can make … healthy and productive life.__



**Your Das are non-unique-40 billion dollar a month just happened**
**Reuters 9/14**, "Federal Reserve stimulus plans send global stocks soaring" [[http://newyork.newsday.com/business/federal-reserve-stimulus-plans-send-global-stocks-soaring-1.4003373]]
__The Federal …__ Asset Management in Boston.



**Economic decline causes war – studies prove**
**Royal 10** [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
__Less intuitive is how periods …__ deserves more attention.



**We can’t abandon growth- only technology can solve their impacts**
**AtKisson,** former executive editor of In Context: A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture**,** 20**03**
(Alan, “Sustainability is Dead— Long Live Sustainability”, 3-20, [[http://www.rrcap.unep.org/uneptg06/course/Robert/SustainabilityManifesto2001.pdf]])

__At precisely the moment …and we can never stop.__


<span style="color: #2d2d2d;">**Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war**</span>
<span style="color: #2d2d2d;">**Gartzke 11** – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]</span></span>

<span style="color: #2d2d2d;">Almost as informative as ….</span>__war becomes a durable anachronism.__



**Alternatives to growth kill hundreds of millions and cause global conflict – we can’t “turn off” the economy**
**Barnhizer 6** — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” //Georgetown International Environmental Law Review// (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
__**The scale of social needs, … of our behavior**__





<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Naval Power Adv.</span>


**The shipbuilding industry is collapsing now**
**Munoz, 11** [January 11, The Obama Infrastructure Plan, and Another Shipyard Closes, OP-ED by Tony Munoz, Editor-in-Chief of the Maritime ExecutiveMagazine and the MarEx Newsletter, [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes]]]
As President Obama announced … and health care for the poor. Imagine….



**Title XI would stimulate the shipbuilding industry**
**Goure, 11** [Lexington Institute, Obama Could Create Jobs And Support Defense, Daniel, PhD, [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171]]]
__A__ less well recognized __… money behind the MHI.__


**Increasing shipbuilding demand would overcome any alt cause**
**Cropsey ’12**<span style="color: #232323;">[</span>18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropsey, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush, [[http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf]],<span style="color: #232323;"> )</span>
Knowledge of shipbuilding remains …American shipbuilding industry.


**A strong shipbuilding industry is key to naval power**
**Alberto, et al., 5** (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)
In conclusion, __our study found …__ value to the nation of the vessel.



**Navy keeps every scenario for conflict in check-but we need the shipbuilding industry to soar**
**NLUS 12** (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity,” 2012 http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf)#SPS
__Global engagement is critical …__ wounded warriors is fundamental.

**Nobody can fill in for the US navy**
**Whiteneck 2010** (Daniel Whiteneck • Michael Price • Neil Jenkins •Peter Swartz, CNA Analysis & Solutions, “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” March, [[http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]]
__Second, no other country … support ¶ at home.__



**The navy is the only way to prevent global conflicts**
**Asbjornsen 12** (Rear Adm. Douglas J. Asbjornsen, USN, deputy commander, Navy Region Northwest, is the senior Navy representative for Spokane Navy Week. “Guest opinion: Strong Navy still essential”, May 12, [[http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2012/may/12/guest-opinion-strong-navy-still-essential/]] EG)
__¶ This ability to act …of the United States Navy.¶__


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**Plan**</span>
**The United States federal government should expand United States Maritime Administration Title XI loan guarantee funding for short sea transportation in the United States.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**Solvency**</span>

**Title XI Loan Guarantees are key to effective marine highways**
**U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration 11**
(“America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)//NJain

Marine Highway Title XI Loan Guarantees
__The Title XI Federal Ship …shoreside infrastructure owners.__


**And, the plan reduces risk and creates the financial backing necessary for short sea shipping**
**Margaronis, 08** [Green Ships Can Fight Global Warming, president of California-based Santa Maria Shipowning & Trading Inc, p. online document retrieved via a google download, full text email [[mailto:alexanderdpappas@gmail.com|alexanderdpappas@gmail.com]]]
__A loan guarantee ….__ companies that hope to build ships.


**Title XI is key to SSS**
**Cook, 12** [H. Clayton Cook, Esq. has been involved with Jones Act issues for more than 40 years and served as General Counsel of the Maritime Administration from 1970-1973. He is currently Counsel to Seward & Kissel LLP in Washington, DC.
The Dual-Use Vessel Program and Americas Marine Highway Next Steps, [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/the-dual-use-vessel-program-and-america-s-marine-highway-next-steps]]]
“Short Sea Shipping” and AMH

__A MarAd and__ Department of Transportation … __**government start-up assistance.**__ ¶


**States doing the plan is illegal and unconstituional**
**Wright, 6** – M.A. in Social Sciences: Environment and Community @ Humboldt State University (Jay D. Wright, “A POLICY ANALYSIS OF THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION’S HYDROELECTRIC RELICENSING PROCESS”, Humboldt State University, August 2006, [[http://humboldt-dspace.calstate.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/2148/102/FERC%20Hydroelectric%20Relicensing%20Thesis.pdf?sequence=1]] | AK)
__The first federal involvement …__ federal agencies simply do not possess.




===Hooch (Quarters Vs Westminster LP)=== 
**Same Aff as above but new plan text**


**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in United States Maritime Administration Title XI loan guarantee funding for short sea transportation in the United States.**


===**St Marks Hoedown**=== 
**Adv. 1 Is Economy**

**The recovery is slowing now**
**Cox, 8/9** (Jeff, Reporter at CNBC citing David Rosenberg who is the chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff, “Economy Should Be Growing at a Much Faster Pace: Rosenberg,” 8/9/12, [[http://www.cnbc.com/id/48585765/Economy_Should_Be_Growing_at_a_Much_Faster_Pace_Rosenberg|__http://www.cnbc.com/id/48585765/Economy_Should_Be_Growing_at_a_Much_Faster_Pace_Rosenberg__]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With </span>__g____ross domestic product … risk than upside potential."__



We Access 2 Internal Links
**1.**
**Congestions chokes the economy-makes recovery impossible**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Needham 11</span> [Vicki, The Hill, Report: Traffic congestion costs billions, weighs on the economic recovery, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/184105-report-traffic-congestion-costs-billions-weighs-on-the-economic-recovery]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Traffic </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">congestion is costing … is not a productive option.” </span>


**AND-Congestion will get worse in the status quo—Marine highways are key to solve**
**U.S. D**epartment **of T**ransportation **M**aritime **A**dministration **11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (“America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)//NJain//</span>

//__Traffic congestion imposes … less used than the other.__//



//**2. AND-MTS is key to trade and the economy-it is collapsing now**//
//**Lobiondo, et al 11** [Congressional Testimony, Frank A. LoBiondo is the U.S. Representative for New Jersey's 2nd congressional district, serving since 1995. He is a member of the Republican Party, CREATING JOBS AND INCREASING U.S. EXPORTS BY ENHANCING THE MARINE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON COAST GUARD AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION, COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:BIbLMqrPg5gJ:www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg66919.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us]]]//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In order </span>to remain **competitive** <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**…**</span> pre-eminent in <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">global </span>trade<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.</span>//



//**AND-**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Trade stops conflict escalation—individuals won’t risk opportunity costs**</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Kleinberg et al 12**</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kleinberg, Katja B., Robinson, Gregory, French, Stewart L., professors at Binghamton University and Saginaw Valley State University, March 2012, “Trade Concentration and Interstate Conflict”, The Journal of Politics, p. 529-40)FS</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the most commonly cited formulation …</span> likelihood of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">interstate </span>conflict.//

//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US is key to the global economy</span>****- no one can fill in**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Caploe 9</span>** (<span style="font-size: 10pt;">David, CEO of the Singapore-incorporated American Centre for Applied Liberal Arts and Humanities in Asia., “Focus still on America to lead global recovery”, April 7, The Strait Times, lexis, can also be seen at</span>[[http://thisblogmyblog.blogspot.com/2009/04/focus-still-on-america-to-lead-global.html|__http://thisblogmyblog.blogspot.com/2009/04/focus-still-on-america-to-lead-global.html__]])//

//IN THE aftermath …__have to be solved there too.__//



//**AND-Economic decline causes war – studies prove**//
//**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>//
//__Less intuitive is how periods …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>//
//**AND-We can’t abandon growth- only technology can solve their impacts**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AtKisson, former executive editor of In Context: A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture, 2003</span>//
//(Alan, “Sustainability is Dead— Long Live Sustainability”, 3-20, [[http://www.rrcap.unep.org/uneptg06/course/Robert/SustainabilityManifesto2001.pdf]])//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">At precisely the moment …we can never stop.</span>//


//**AND-Alternatives to growth kill hundreds of millions and cause global conflict**//
//**Barnhizer 6** — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,”// Georgetown International Environmental Law Review// (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
__The scale of social needs, … destructive consequences of our behavior__





Adv. 2 Navy

**The shipbuilding industry is collapsing now**
**Munoz, 11** [January 11, The Obama Infrastructure Plan, and Another Shipyard Closes, OP-ED by Tony Munoz, Editor-in-Chief of the Maritime ExecutiveMagazine and the MarEx Newsletter, [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As President Obama announced …, mass transportation, and health care for the poor. Imagine….</span>





**AND**-**Title XI would stimulate the shipbuilding industry**
**Goure, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Lexington Institute, Obama Could Create Jobs And Support Defense, Daniel, PhD, [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171]]] </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> less well recognized </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">candidate …put</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">money behind the MHI.</span>






**AND-Shipbuilding industry allows the Navy to solve every conflict**
**NLUS 12** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity,” 2012 http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf)</span>
__Global engagement is critical …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> warriors is fundamental.</span>



**AND-Nobody can fill in for the US navy**
**Whiteneck 2010** (Daniel Whiteneck • Michael Price • Neil Jenkins •Peter Swartz, CNA Analysis & Solutions, “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” March, [[http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]]
__Second, no other country …political support__ __<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>at home.__


**AND-The navy is the only way to prevent global conflicts**
**Asbjornsen 12** (Rear Adm. Douglas J. Asbjornsen, USN, deputy commander, Navy Region Northwest, is the senior Navy representative for Spokane Navy Week. “Guest opinion: Strong Navy still essential”, May 12, [[http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2012/may/12/guest-opinion-strong-navy-still-essential/]] EG)
__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>This ability to act from the sea …the United States Navy.____<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>__





**Navy is key to solve Arctic conflict-best studies prove**
**Freeman 09** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bob, Office of the Oceanographer of the Navy, ‘Navy Releases Roadmap For Future Arctic Operations”, 11/24/09, [[http://www.navy.mil/submit/display.asp?story_id=49725]], CS)</span>
WASHINGTON (NNS) -- The vice chief of naval … __requirements,"__ Titley explained.




**Arctic conflict US-Russia war—highest magnitude impact**
**Staples 9**(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven, Rideau Institute, Danish Institute for International Studies, Copenhagen , “PRESENTATION NOTES STEPS TOWARD AN ARCTIC NUCLEAR WEAPON FREE ZONE”, Dansk Institut for Internationale Studier, 8/10,[[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ ¶ </span>The fact is, the __Arctic is …__**__use of nuclear weapons.__**



**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Best IR studies agree</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Murray 12</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Political Science @ Alberta</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Robert, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">It is no overstatement to …</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> into changes to state security strategies</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


__Plan: The United States federal government should invest in the United States Maritime Administration Title XI program for short sea transportation in the United States.__



**Federal government is key to private sector involvement**

**Cook, 11** — former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water, Deech)
***Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For more than a decade… as a transaction cost.</span>**




And, the plan reduces risk and creates the financial backing necessary for short sea shipping
Margaronis, 08 **[Green Ships Can Fight Global Warming, president of California-based Santa Maria Shipowning & Trading Inc, p. online document retrieved via a google download, full text email [[mailto:alexanderdpappas@gmail.com|alexanderdpappas@gmail.com]]]**
**__A loan guarantee__ __is …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">companies that hope to build ships.</span>**


Marine highways independently solve shipbuilding and navy
Heim and Tedesco, 9 **(Aimee Heim is, Matt Tedesco is, “A Shipbuilder’s Assessment of America’s Marine Highways,” 7/30/09, [[http://www.nassco.com/pdfs/Shipbuilder-Assessment-American-Marine-Highway-NASSCO.pdf|__http://www.nassco.com/pdfs/Shipbuilder-Assessment-American-Marine-Highway-NASSCO.pdf__]])**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Note: the gap in production the card mentions goes from 2016-2019 with only Alaska crude ships being produced later. Ro/Ros end in 2014.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">America’s </span>__Marine Highways__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … utilization of resources </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>**


Title XI is key to SSS
Cook, 12 **[H. Clayton Cook, Esq. has been involved with Jones Act issues for more than 40 years and served as General Counsel of the Maritime Administration from 1970-1973. He is currently Counsel to Seward & Kissel LLP in Washington, DC.**
**The Dual-Use Vessel Program and Americas Marine Highway Next Steps, [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/the-dual-use-vessel-program-and-america-s-marine-highway-next-steps]]]**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Short Sea Shipping” and AMH</span>**

**__A MarAd____and__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Department of Transportation …</span>**__government start-up assistance.__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>






===Umich=== 
Same aff as st marks
but updated econ UQ

**Econ declining now**
**Bloomberg 9/28**/12, [[http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international-business/us-economy-sluggish-durable-good-orders-post-worst-drop-since-recession/articleshow/16576905.cms]]
WASHINGTON: The economy in the US ... paced by a decline in demand for civilian aircraft.

Added:

**Global trade growth is inevitable – it’s only a question if the U.S. is engaged**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">IWR 12 </span>(US Army Corps of Engineers, Institute for Water Resources, June 20, “U.S. Port and Inland Waterways Modernization: Preparing for Post-Panamax Vessels”, pg. 14-15)
Despite the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">recent worldwide </span>recession, ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">requirements at U.S. ports for this trade route. </span>








New Plan Text

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the United States Maritime Administration Title XI program for short sea transportation in the United States.**




===Sophomore State=== 
Same as Umich




===Harvard=== 
Same as Sophomore State











=Negative= 


==Topicality== 

===T-In the US=== 
**The US includes the territories and land over which it has jurisdiction**
**Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms 5** (Dictionary of Military, [[http://www.thefreedictionary.com/United+States]], 2005)
__Includes the land area, ... defense responsibility.__

===T-Pre-existing=== 
**Interpretation: Increase requires making an already existing thing greater**
**Buckley et al, 06 -** attorney (Jeremiah, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al,
[[http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf]])
First, the court … words around it”)

===T-Military=== 
**Interpretation: Infrastructure is physical capital that provides __public services__ – it excludes the military**
**Fourie 6** – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM//
//One way to define infrastructure ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> transportation modalities and utilitcies.</span>//

//**And, That excludes the military**//
//**National Infrastructure Improvement Act, 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (S. 775, this bill did not pass, proquest Congressional)</span>//DH

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This Act may be cited as the 'National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2007'.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(A) IN GENERAL.--</span>__The term 'infrastructure' means ...__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">waste disposal facility.</span>


===T-Maintenance=== 
**- Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance**
**Lemer 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__What has been__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">often squeezed, forcing neglect.</span>


===T-Loan Guarantees=== 


**Transportation investment requires federal funding**
**Warner, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect</span><span style="color: #444444; font-size: 8pt;"> to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)/RD|http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)//RD]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- </span>**__The term ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> title or section 134 or 135 of title 23.</span>

**Violation – A loan guarantee is only conditionally spending money**
**Muro and Rothwell 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mark Muro, senior fellow and director of policy for the Metropolitan Policy Program at Brookings, Jonathan Rothwell a Senior Research Analyst and Associate Fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program Brookings: “DOE’s Loan Guarantee Program Will Likely Result in Minimal Costs and Large Gains for Taxpayers” By Climate Guest Blogger on Sep 28, 2011 at 8:25 am by Mark Muro and Jonathan Rothwell, in a Brookings repost BK</span>
**__A loan guarantee is distinct...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> seizing the borrower’s assets.</span>


===T-Pipelines=== 
**Transportation infrastructure is NOT pipelines – we have a case list – T is a prerequisite to debate**
**Chamber of Commerce 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Transportation Performance Index Summary Report U.S. Chamber of Commerce 9/23/2010 [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110.pdf]] BK</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Dr. Martin Regalia ...</span>**__element of energy infrastructure.__**



==Kritiks== 
===Fem. IR=== 

**IR is profoundly gendered. The process of making foreign policy relies upon a discourse of danger designed to secure the legitimation of masculine hegemony to suppress the feminine other. looking to the state as the primary actor in international relations makes violence inevitable**
**Steans 98** [Senior Lecturer in International Relations Theory, Director of the Graduate School for the University of Birmingham, 1998 (Jill, Gender and International Relations, An Introduction, page 108-109)]
Critical approaches to International Relations … to understand their lives.24

**Ignorance of gender makes their methodology suspect – error replication is inevitable. The alternative is to investigate how reality is constituted can we develop a basis for action and avoid error replication**
**Peterson and Runyan 99** [professor of political science at the University of Arizona and professor of women’s studies at Wright State University, 1999 (V. Spike and Anne, __Global Gender Issues__, 2nd edition, p. 1-3)]
__Whenever we study a topic…__ potentially disastrous, guides.

**Interrogating the gendered nature of IR solves.**
**Peterson and Runyan 99** [professor of political science at the University of Arizona and professor of women’s studies at Wright State University, 1999 (V. Spike and Anne, __Global Gender Issues__, 2nd edition, p. 14-15)]
__Gender issues surface … hierarchies at work in the world__



===Security (Neocleus Alt)=== 
**Infrastructure development is the essence of modern securitization – it translates the normal function of life into the discourse of security**
**Lundborg and Vaughan-Williams, 10** (Tom Lundborg, The Swedish Institute of International Affairs, Nick Vaughan-Williams, University of Warwick, “There’s More to Life than Biopolitics: Critical Infrastructure, Resilience Planning, and Molecular Security,” Paper prepared for the SGIR Conference, Stockholm, 7-10 September, 2010)
While the terrain of security studies …cyber networks—__takes place.__

**The dream of security produces apocalypse– //constructions// of existential risk produce the annihilation they are meant to escape**
Pever **Coviello**, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, **2k** [//Queer Frontiers//, p. 39-40]
Perhaps. But to claim that American … __**that can scarcely be done without.**__

**Alternative – Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought**
Mark **Neocleous**, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, **2008** [//Critique of Security//, 185-6]
__The only way out__ of such a dilemma, … __**to return the gift**."'__



===__Security (Der Derian Alt)__=== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Disorder and insecurity are inevitable but efforts to control this fear have resulted in the deaths of millions the possibility of our utter annhiliation. Instead seeking this impossible fantasy where we are able to suppress and control conflict—the alternative is to affirm difference. This will allow us the break out of the infinite cycle of violence that created their harms in the first place</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Der Derian 98—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts. [James, On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security.</span>

No other concept in international relations <span class="underline">… into a fearful sameness.</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The world is inherently relativistic—competing value systems guarantee wars between states. When the mission of statehood goes beyond protection of the state to protection of civilization it escalates warfare by framing others as outside the liberal order</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William </span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Rasch</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University, 20</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">03</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Human Rights as Geopolitics,” Cultural Critique 54, 120-147.</span>
In the past, we/they<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…, </span><span class="underline">from the civilized world</span>



===__Air Power__=== 
**Air war leads to serial policy failure by killing disposable populations and depersonalizes war – their “truth claims” are based in flawed epistemology**
**Engelhardt 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Tom Engelhardt, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com.] March 18, 2011 3:32 AM PRINT TEXT What U.S. air power actually does By Tom Engelhardt http://www.cbsnews.com/2100-215_162-20044539.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the years, Afghan civilian casualties …</span>__air power__ __has ended up.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Live with it. </span>

**That makes endless war inevitable**
**Record 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jeffrey Record, Professor of International Security Studies at the Air War College and former professional staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Ph.D. from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, senior fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Hudson Institute, and the BDM International Corporation, 2002, “Collapsed Countries, Casualty Dread, and the New American Way of War,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/USAWC/parameters/Articles/02summer/record.htm]]</span>
__An airpower-dominant way of war__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> __even democracy itself.56__

**Our alternative is to personalize war – the affirmative view causes dehumanization and incentivizes further highly militarized conflicts.**
**Ignatieff 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> academic and former politician. He was the leader of the Liberal Party of Canada and Leader of the Official Opposition from 2008 until 2011. Known for his work as a historian, Ignatieff has held senior academic posts at the University of Cambridge, the University of Oxford, Harvard University and the University of Toronto. Virtual war MICHAEL IGNATIEFF 20th April 2000 — Issue 51 http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2000/04/virtualwar/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Kosovo, war enlisted western citizens only in virtual ways. </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> tenacity of the north Vietnamese.</span>


===Body K=== 
**A) Assuming that society should be conceived as bodies leads to biological determinism—leading to narrow categories that become rigid and unyielding:**
**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">OYEWUMI, 1999</span>__**(OYERONKE. teaches in the Dept. of Black Studies at University of California at Santa Barbara, "Multiculturalism or Multibodism: On the Impossible Intersections of Race and Gender in American White Feminist and Black Nationalist Discourses(1)." The Western Journal of Black Studies 23.3 (1999): 182. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Mar. 2010.)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In my book titled, ...</span> __one body part at a time.__

**B) This focus on the body unwittingly re-entrenches gendered difference—turning the AFF and worsening oppression:**
**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">OYEWUMI, 1999</span>__**(OYERONKE. teaches in the Dept. of Black Studies at University of California at Santa Barbara, "Multiculturalism or Multibodism: On the Impossible Intersections of Race and Gender in American White Feminist and Black Nationalist Discourses(1)." The Western Journal of Black Studies 23.3 (1999): 182. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Mar. 2010.)
__The notion of society ...____bodies had to be eliminated.__


**C) The alternative reconfigures oppression as stemming from historical and social processes rather than from the politics of the body—this better challenges social hierarchies than the AFF:**
**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">OYEWUMI, 1999</span>__**(OYERONKE. teaches in the Dept. of Black Studies at University of California at Santa Barbara, "Multiculturalism or Multibodism: On the Impossible Intersections of Race and Gender in American White Feminist and Black Nationalist Discourses(1)." The Western Journal of Black Studies 23.3 (1999): 182. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Mar. 2010.)
__With the publication in the ...__ __processes in and of themselves.__



===Cap K=== 




**Infrastructure investment is a tool of the capitalist state—people, values and goods all become commodities to be transported**
**Giddens and Held 82** (Anthony and David; M.A. and Ph.D. in economics, Prof. at Cambridge, Director of the London School of Economics, he has 15 honorary degrees; Master of University College, Durham, professor of politics and international relations at Durham University; “Classes, Power and Conflict: Classical and Contemporary Debates”; Pg. 253)//RSW
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">7. </span>__Policies__ __which pursue ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the capitalist class itself.</span>



**Makes extinction inevitable**
**Carroll 10 –** founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria (William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, SW)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Crucially, the economic crisis ...project of </span>__counter-hegemony.__


**Our alternative is to reject capitalism**
**Herod, 04** (James, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/4thEd/4-index.htm, Getting Free, 4th Edition
A sketch of an association of democratic, autonomous neighborhoods and how to create it, Fourth Edition, January 2004
__It is time to try to describe,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span>__slavery and possibly even to extinction.__
















===Civil Disobedience=== 



**Their appeal for the ballot proves they are still operating in the game playing paradigm:**
Alfred C. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Snider, 2003</span> (Director of Debate at the University of Vermont, “GAMEMASTER: IS IT YOU?” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate, accessed via EBSCO Host)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">What happens when ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> context for the debater and the judge.</span>



**We turn their game playing argument back at them—if they don’t want debate to be treated as a game then they should lose this game to advance their form of social protest:**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cohen 1972</span> – Marshall, (Professor of Philosophy and Law, at USC [“Liberalism and Disobedience,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 3. (Spring, 1972), pp. 283-314, http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265054]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Zinn</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">offers an extremely ...about "toppling the government."</span>




**If you do believe their stance is sincere and/or you agree with it, you should reward their civil disobedience with a loss. Punishment is key to enlisting the sympathy of the majority and ensuring the movement succeeds.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cohen 72</span> – Marshall, University Professor, Emeritus, Professor of Philosophy and Law, Emeritus, and Dean, Emeritus, College of Letters, Arts and Sciences at USC [“Liberalism and Disobedience,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 3. (Spring, 1972), pp. 283-314, http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/2265054.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is for this reason that </span>the civil disobedient<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... of the civil disobedient.</span>



===Global-Local=== 






**The affirmatives attempt to order the world causes mass violence**
**Nayar 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Copyright (c) 1999 Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems Fall, 1999 9 Transnat'l L. & Contemp. Probs. 599. “SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity” Jayan Nayar (Ph. D from the University of Cambridge, Professor of International Development Law and Human Rights and the University of Warwick) cylab.info/u/JQ/texts/Nayar-_Orders_of_Inhumanity.doc</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Order as Coercive...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;"> ordering that is violence</span>

**Our alternative is the local – precondition for solvency**
**Srnicek, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">degree in political science from the University of Western Ontario, graduate student in International Relations at the London School of Economics, Mendeley member in Social Sciences, (Nick, “Conflict Networks: Collapsing the Global into the Local”, Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, Issue 2, 2010, http://criticalglobalisation.com/Issue2/30_64_CONFLICT_NETWORKS_ JCGS2.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The main result of the ...tasks for future work.</span>



















===Navy K=== 







**Naval discourse is the normalization of patriarchy and us them perspectives – spills over**
**De Bere 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Samantha Regan, lecturer at Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry, Military Masculinities Identity and the State, pgs.. 95-98)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">MILITARY MEN AND THEIR RELATIONSHIP WITH NAVAL DISCOURSE …experience of service life </span>//as a whole//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

**That is the root cause of war**
**Cockburn 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Cynthia, visiting prof in the Dept of Sociology at the City University London and honorary prof at the Center for the Study of Women and Gender at U Warwick, "Gender Relations as Causal in Militarization and War" International Feminist Journal of Politics 12.2 Jun]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By contrast, </span>__patriarchal gender relations__ __… 'root causes' of militarism and war__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Our alternative is to reject Naval Sociology; this does not exclude the navy, only the underlying masculine identity.**
**De Bere 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MILITARY IDENTITIES: MEN, FAMILIES AND OCCUPATIONAL CHANGE by SAMANTHA REGAN DE SERE A thesis submitted to the University of Plymouth in partial fulfilment for the degree of DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY Department of Sociology Faculty of Human Sciences August 1999 </span>
__The notion of social identity … some conceptualisation is therefore useful here__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


===Tech K=== 
<span class="Underline">**The affirmatives science and technology studies are infused with power relations and unintended destructive consequences. The alternative is philosophical science and technology, also known as personal Luddism – it is a pre-requisite to the effective outcomes and it’s a better ontological basis for your aff. That means no permutation can exist, discourse come first and shutting out our discourse demonstrates your power obsession**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Winner 96**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Langdon Winner is Professor of Political Science in the Department of Science and Technology Studies at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York since 1990. In 1973, Winner graduated with a Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. He was assistant professor in Leiden, at MIT, at the University of California, Los Angeles and at the University of California, Santa Cruz. From 1985 onwards he worked at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; he was a visiting professor at Harvey Mudd College. The Gloves Come off: Shattered Alliances in Science and Technology Studies Author(s): Langdon WinnerReviewed work(s):Source: Social Text, No. 46/47, Science Wars (Spring - Summer, 1996), pp. 81-91Published by: Duke University PressStable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/466845 .Accessed: 12/05/2012 11:19.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The acrimonious disputes surrounding so...</span><span class="Underline"> forefront of </span>every backward step.



===Warming K=== 

**The affirmative characterizes climate change as an emergency – turns the advantage – our alternative is to use positive and compelling images of a desired future without warming. This does not preclude the possibility of doing the aff**
**Hodder and Martin 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Brian Martin is Professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, Australia.] Climate crisis? The politics of emergency framing Published in Economic and Political Weekly, Vol. 44, No. 36, 5 September 2009, pp. 53-60. Patrick Hodder and Brian Martin Faculty of Arts, University of Wollongong, Australia *Note: Steve Breyman, Holly Creenaune, Mark Diesendorf, Rowan Huxtable, Jørgen Johansen and Mary Scott made comments on drafts. They do not necessarily agree with the views expressed here. </span>
__This frame__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- this way of …transition away from polluting industries.</span>

**Frames are a prior question**
**Foust and Murphy 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-*Associate Professor in the Department of Human Communication Studies @ the University of Denver, PhD in Communication Studies @ University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, **PhD in Communication Studies @ University of Denver (Christina, William, “Revealing and Reframing Apocalyptic Tragedy in Global Warming Discourse” A Journal of</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nature and Culture, Vol. 3, No. 2, pg. 153-154, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/17524030902916624]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, DKP]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While </span>__frames__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘‘cannot guarantee how…forecloses all individual judgments’’ (O’Leary, 1993, p. 409).</span>




===Virillio=== 


**The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics**
**Virilio, 1997**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 81-83) //BZ//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But let us get back to Europe’s ....</span> __instantaneously trans-mitted long-distance to be connected.__//

//**Our worship of acceleration** **makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction. Our alternative is the rejection of speed to create a new methodological lens**//
//**Sykes, 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online) </span>//BZ
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Virlio’s view, </span>__the war machine...____must politicize speed.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”</span>



==CPs== 
===States CP=== 


====<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">ITS Solvency</span>==== 

**All 50 states implemented programs like ITS in the past**
**USDOT ’98,** “Tracking State Deployments of Commercial Vehicle Information Systems and Networks,” 31-03-1998, url: www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/research/operations/.../trackcvins.pdf.

__The ITS Joint Program Office ...__ deployments were in place.


====<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">NIB Solvency</span>==== 

**State infrastructure banks solve- creates an efficient way to allocate money- federal programs fail**
**Slone 2011** (Sean, transportation policy analyst at The Council of State Governments“ State Infrastructure Banks ” July 5 The knowledge Center: The Council of State Governments, http://knowledgecenter.csg.org/drupal/content/state-infrastructure-banks AS)
__State infrastructure banks ... more benefit-producing projects can be the result__.4








====Mass Transit (MPO Specific)==== 

**States solve- facilitation and jurisdiction.**
**Renne et al., 2008** – Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)//BZ
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Similar to the federal ...</span> __needs evacuation planning.__






===F-35=== 

**The United States federal government should** **increase the funding of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program through the Department of Defense.**

**<span style="background-color: white;">F-35’s are key to air power and heg</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Donnelly 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> - </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">director of the Center for Defense Studies [7/18/11Thomas, The Weekly Standard, “An Extremely Immodest Proposal,”</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/extremely-immodest-proposal_576967.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">?)//DHirsch</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">No doubt the legal and monetary obligations … aircraft will rapidly disappear.</span>



===H-1B=== 

The United States federal government should <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">eliminate the cap on its H-1B visas</span>
**Shortage of talented workers is putting our aerospace and defense sector on the edge- immediate solutions are vital to save the industry**
**Businesswire 6-21**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Progress in North American Aerospace & Defense Industry Threatened by Leadership-Development, Talent, Organizational and Cultural Problems, Accenture Research Finds,” http://www.marketwatch.com/story/progress-in-north-american-aerospace-defense-industry-threatened-by-leadership-development-talent-organizational-and-cultural-problems-accenture-research-finds-2010-06-21]</span>
**__The__** **__North American aerospace …for them at this point__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>




===Three-Tier Sanctions=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States Federal Government should adopt a three-tiered system for sanctioning terrorist financiers and create a National Security Sanctions Court composed of Article Three Judges.</span>**


**This solves terror—allows for credible and flexible sanctions that shut down terrorist funding**
**O’leary 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Candidate, New York University School of Law. (10 March 10, Law Review(Robert, )International Law and Politics: Improving the Terrorist Finance Sanctions Process., http://www.law.nyu.edu/ecm_dlv1/groups/public/@nyu_law_website__journals__journal_of_international_law_and_politics/documents/documents/ecm_pro_065797.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">JD (., , )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I. INTRODUCTION</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As part of the global effort to combat terrorism, …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> improve U.S. foreign relations.</span>




===Nuke Mecca CP=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should declare that The United States will respond to a nuclear terrorist attack by nuking Mecca. The United States federal government should not nuke Mecca</span>



**Declaring** **to retaliate by nuking Mecca deters any terrorist attack from happening**
**Shackleford 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Rusty, alias used by someone anonymous for fear that he will be killed due to his posts since he has received death threats he is a professor and educator, “The Case for Nuking Mecca”, June 15th 2010 </span><span style="color: #000099; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.truthandgrace.com/muslimnuke.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> CS</span><span style="font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__First point: … love their Mecca too?"__


===__Brazil CP__=== 
Brazil should cease its deforrestation of the Amazon.




===Ban Regulations CP=== 

The United States federal government should
**-remove all regulations that inhibit the coal industry as specified by the 1AC evidence.**
**-announce that no further regulations as specified by the 1AC evidence will be passed**



===**Sunshades CP**=== 
**The United States federal government should**
**-develop and deploy sunshades beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**



**Solves warming**
**Victor et al 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – a Professor at Stanford Law School, Director of Stanford's Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, and an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. M. Granger Morgan is Head of Carnegie Mellon University's Department of Engineering and Public Policy and Director of the Climate Decision Making Center. Jay Apt is Professor of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University. John Steinbruner is Professor of Public Policy and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland. Katharine Ricke is a doctoral student at Carnegie Mellon University (David G., March/April 2009 “The geoengineering option” http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/22456/The_Geoengineering_Option.pdf )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Each year, the effects of climate change… 1940s and 1950s dreamed of doing.</span>



===Seabasing CP=== 

**Text: The US federal government should develop and implement a mobile Sea Basing naval capability as quickly as possible aimed at ensuring adequate United States forward deployment and power projection capabilities.**

**(--) Seabasing massively increases US power projection**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> G.J. </span>**__Flynn, 2009__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lt. General USMC, 3-26-2009, “Seabasing,” [[http://www.quantico.usmc.mil/download.aspx?Path=./Uploads/Files/CDI_Seabasing%20for%20the%20ROMO%2026%20Mar%2009.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In March 2005 the new National Defense Strategy (NDS) …</span> __response or__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">expeditionary </span>__power projection__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.25</span>



===OTEC CP=== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should incentivize the development and use of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Technology in the United States by giving tax credits that make OTEC cheaper than oil.**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The counterplan solves oil dependency and warming**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Galbraith, 09**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(4/12/09, Kate, The New York Times, “Generating Energy from the Deep”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/30/business/energy-environment/30thermal.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/companies/lockheed_martin_corporation/index.html?inline=nyt-org|LOCKHEED MARTIN]] is best known for building stealth fighters, ...</span> __or__ [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/w/wind_power/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|wind turbines]]__, which stop in calm conditions.__



===ACE CP=== 
**Text: The Bureau of Customs and Border Protection should incrementally justify ACE project investment, ensure ACE alignment with enterprise architecture, expand human capital resources, develop rigorous and analytically verifiable cost estimating, and employ effective software acquisition processes.**


**That’s key to effective customs assessment through the ACE program – their solvency author**
**Stana 03** “Richard, Director of Homeland Security and Justice Issues at the General Accounting Office, Masters Degree from Kent State, ‘Challenges Facing the Department of Homeland Security in Balancing its Border Security and Trade Facilitation Missions’, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d03902t.pdf”

__Customs’ ongoing effort to ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Software Acquisition Capability Maturity Model. 10 </span>


**Solves the aff – nullifies all risk of port terrorism and trafficking**
**Stana 03** “Richard, Director of Homeland Security and Justice Issues at the General Accounting Office, Masters Degree from Kent State, ‘Challenges Facing the Department of Homeland Security in Balancing its Border Security and Trade Facilitation Missions’, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d03902t.pdf”

__Separating high-risk cargo from low- ...__ __save inspection time and resources.__



===__NexGen Privatization__=== 


**The United States federal government should commercialize the air traffic control system by creating a self-supporting non-civil service Air Traffic Organization funded. We’ll clarify.**

**Counterplan solves efficiency and safety better—avoids the FAA bad turns**
**Poole 10** <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Robert W. Jr., Director of Transportation Policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow – Reason Foundation, and Chris Edwards, Director of Tax Policy Studies – Cato Institute, “Airports and Air Traffic Control”, June 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/sites/downsizinggovernment.org/files/pdf/transportation-airports-atc.pdf]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The way to address all three ...reforms that have been implemented</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">abroad.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>


**FAA Fails—culture and lack of technical expertise make implementation impossible**
**Poole 7** <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Robert W. Poole, Jr. is the director of transportation policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at Reason Foundation. “The Urgent Need To Reform The FAA’s Air Traffic Control System.” March 2007. http://reason.org/files/7e27c68e7675e8a599716bab220978f5.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">many observers ...</span> network-centric ATM system<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Incompetence turns the case – causes cost overruns and links to our stimulus turns – assumes their “only funding key” warrants**
**Poole and Edwards 10** <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Robert W. Poole, Jr. is the director of transportation policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at Reason Foundation. Chris Edwards is the director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee. “Airports and Air Traffic Control.” June 2010. http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/transportation/airports-atc)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the challenge ...</span> failures and<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>greater congestion down the road<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>




===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Nanotech DIB </span>=== 
**Text: The Department of Defense should increase its funding for the defense industry base through regulated nanotechnology.**

**Solves heg, manufacturing, and nanowars**
**Watts ’08** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (Barry, “The US Defense Industrial Base, Past, Present and Future,” [[http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In.pdf__]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the 1950s, </span>__the US defense industrial base...__ __ahead as it has been since the 1950s__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



===Diversity Forums=== 



**Discussion forums solve best- we should encouragecommunity-wide forums to discuss their advocacy**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zompetti ’04</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">University,</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> “</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Interjecting the personalized into debate...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in my opinion, **__enormous__**.</span>

**Three net benefits-**
**Alliance splitting- personalizing debate risks splitting alliances and fracturing solutions, causing backlash and resistance:**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zompetti ’04</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">University,</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> “</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The purpose of this essay ...</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> resistance and backlash.</span>__**




**Structural solutions- personalized debating blocks structural solutions- our counter advocacy solves better**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zompetti ’04</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">University,</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> “</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To be sure, **__many have ... within the debate community.__**</span>



**Debate rounds are bad forums- lack of time, moving advocacy target, and they deflect from community-wide discussions- turns the case**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zompetti ’04</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">University,</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> “</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”] </span>

**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> second major problem ...</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">important factors such as resource disparity.</span>__**





===HERstory PIC=== 
**Their framing of “history” reifies patriarchal systems of domination**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tsehelska 2006</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Marina Tsehelska has been teaching English at Kryvyi Rih State Pedagogical University for ten years. During that time she completed a dissertation in Linguistics and became chair of the English Language and Methodology department; “Teaching Politically Correct Language” English Teaching Forum, Vol. 44 No. 1 </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://exchanges.state.gov/englishteaching/forum/archives/docs/06-44-1-e.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Politically correct speech became...</span> __("it's HIStory, not HERstory__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"). </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the context of women’s liberation, we advocate the use of the word “herstory”- this recognizes that women have been written out of regular quote “history”</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wallechinsky and Wallace 1981</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David; and Irving; “Feminism Ideas and Sexism in Language Part 3” </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.trivia-library.com/a/feminism-ideas-and-sexism-in-language-part-3.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__The Women's Liberation ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by hundreds of "chairpersons."</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Vote Negative to challenge this linguistic oppression- we can agree with the entire 1AC but take issue with their linguistic framing:**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Zainzinger 2010** (Vanessa; “His-/herstory of Gender-Based Language Reform” October 28th. </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://vanessazainzinger.wordpress.com/2010/10/28/his-herstory-of-gender-based-language-reform/]]</span>)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While language and gender r...</span> women in language<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>



===ISAF=== 




**Text: The North Atlantic Treaty Organization should not withdraw the International Security Assistance Force from Afghanistan.**

**ISAF presence solves private sector investment**
**Sholk – 1AC Author- ‘12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dena Sholk- universal newswire analyst citing Thomas Sanderson- Co-director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Washington, D.C.-based Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), and Said Jawad- Former Afghan Ambassador to the U.S. and President of Capitalize LLC, April 25 2012, “Private investment key to success of 'New Silk Road' after 2014”, http://www.universalnewswires.com/centralasia/turkmenistan/viewstory.aspx?id=11883)</span>
Upgrading<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and harmonizing ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">entering an unknown marketplace.</span>



===No BMD in Europe CP=== 
**The Secretary of State should tell the Russian Federation that the United States will no longer pursue European missile defense.**

**Solves best**
**Pan Armenian 1-15-13**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ["New Obama team pragmatic on US Russian relations" Pan Armenian Net -- www.panarmenian.net/eng/news/141116/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama has tapped Kerry ...</span>__**missile defense**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Saradzhyan said.</span>

==DAs== 
===Elections DA=== 

**Obama winning – electoral math + polls.**
**Moulitsas 9-4**. [Markos, founder and publisher of Daily Kos, "Democrats have reins after Republicans flub their convention in Tampa, Fla." The Hill -- thehill.com/opinion/columnists/markos-moulitas/247487-dems-have-reins-after-gop-flubs-convention]
__The data coming out … few avenues for a comeback.__




(Insert plan spends a lot of money/is unpopular)


**- Fiscal discipline is top issue for independent swing voters and they don’t trust federal investments so there’s no perception of benefit**
**NSOR, 10** (North Star Opinion Research, Resurgent Republic, Dr. Whit Ayres, president of North Star Opinion Research, co-founded Resurgent Republic with former RNC Chair Ed Gillespie and Impacto Group CEO Leslie Sanchez. North Star partners with Resurgent Republic to conduct surveys and focus groups on popular issues and trends that help shape public debate over the proper role of government, 7/7, [[http://www.resurgentrepublic.com/summaries/independents-support-conservative-policies-in-health-care-energy-and-fiscal-issues]])
__With Independent voters … 35 percent margin__.





**2 internal links – Romney will label china a currency manipulator and Obama will do it if he’s going to lose**
**Dawson** **and Mason, 12**
**Stella and Jeff, Columnists @ Reuters, 2/13, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/13/us-usa-campaign-obama-china-idUSTRE81C0DG20120213**
__Tough calculus for Obama in__ … where we have differences."


**Ensures escalating tensions – results in tbill sell off, economic collapse and relations fail.**
**MCNALLY 9****.** [Chris, research fellow and political economist @ East-West Center, “CHINA-U.S. ECONOMIC RELATIONS: FROM SYMBIOSIS TO RUPTURE?” East West Center -- Feb 8 -- http://www.eastwestcenter.org/news-center/east-west-wire/china-us-economic-relations-from-symbiosis-to-rupture/]
The unraveling of this synergy is already creating tensions, … fragile relationship through tough times.

**U.S. – China war guarantees nuclear war**
**Glaser 11** **[Charles Glaser – PHD from Harvard in International Relations Theory and International Security Policy -- Professor of Political Science and International Affairs Director, Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at George Washington University “Will China’s Rise lead to War?” March/April 2011http://web.clas.ufl.edu/users/zselden/coursereading2011/Glaser.pdf SMerchant]**
**The prospects for avoiding intense** … **general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.**


===Auto Trade Off DA=== 

**Auto Industry is matching pace with previous months and stocks are improving**
**Burroughs 8-20-12**(John, columnist for the property mentor group, 8-20-12, http://www.propertymentorgroup.com/auto-industry-has-a-strong-start-to-the-month-of-august-f-gm-hmc-tm/121736/)

__Auto industry analysts__ and dealers __said...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">130.74 billion. It has current ratio of 1.05.</span>


**New human transportation infrastructure hurts the auto industry.**
**Bethel 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Frazier Capital Valuatio; Masters in International Finance and European Business (Stephen, 1 December 2009, “The Valuation of Auto & Recreational Vehicle Dealership Operations,” Chapter 2, Frazier Capital, http://www.fraziercapital.com/books/auto/2.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>__rivalry between__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">existing...</span> __market into the seller’s market.__

**Key to the Navy**
**Ronis 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Prepared Statement of Dr. Sheila Ronis, Director, MBA/MS Programs, Walsh College; Vice President, National Defense University Foundation, Troy, Michigan CHINA’S IMPACT ON THE U.S. AUTO AND AUTO PARTS INDUSTRIES HEARING BEFORE THE U.S.­CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION ONE HUNDRED NINTH CONGRESS SECOND SESSION _ July 17, 2006 [[http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2006hearings/transcripts/july_17/06_07_17_trans.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In May 2001, the U.S. Department...</span>__the base with the auto industry.__

**Solves great power wars**
**Conway et al 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deter major power war</span>**.** __No other ....____enable extended campaigns ashore__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




===Immigration Reform=== 


**Immigration reform will pass only if Obama uses capital – overcomes all current roadblocks.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Des Moines Register 1-22</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-13. www.desmoinesregister.com/article/20130122/OPINION03/301220049/0/NEWS/?odyssey=nav%7Chead&nclick_check=1</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taken as an agenda ...</span> not want him to succeed.


(Link)

**Capital key**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Shifter 12/27/12 (Michael, President of the Inter-American Dialogue, “Will Obama Kick the Can Down the Road?”) </span>
Not surprisingly, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama has been...</span> priorities like immigration.

**Key to US-India relations and the Chinese economy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Los Angeles Times, 11/9/2012</span> (Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform, p. [[http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>C<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">omprehensive </span>i<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">mmigration </span>r<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">eform ...</span> //<span style="background-color: lime;">big</span>////ger plus than not//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">," he said</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**US/India relations solve nuclear war**
**Schaffer**, Spring **2002** (Teresita – Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security, Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)
Washington<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">'s increased interest...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> relations with the United States.</span>

**Chinese economic collapse causes global nuclear war**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kaminski 7</span> (Antoni Z., Professor – Institute of Political Studies, “World Order: The Mechanics of Threats (Central European Perspective)”, Polish Quarterly of International Affairs, 1, p. 58)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As already argued, the economic ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> US clash in the region</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>






==2NRs== 
==Wake Forrest== 


===Round 2: NIB (Berkley Prep DS)=== 
1NC: T-pre-existing, Fem IR K, States CP, Elections DA,
2NR: States CP and Elections


===Round 4: ITS (McDonough ER)=== 
1NC: T-IN the US, Fem IR K, States CP, Elections DA
2NR: States CP and Elections


===Round 6: NIB (Northview JK)=== 
1NC: T-pre-existing, Security K (Neocleus), States CP, Elections DA
2NR: Elections DA


==Chattahooche== 
===Round 2 NextGen (Northview DK)=== 
1NC: Elections DA, Air Power K, F-35 CP, T-In/Military
2NR: Elections


===Round 3 Port Security (Roswell RT)=== 
1NC: T-Military/Maintenance, Three Tier Sanctions CP, Security (Der Derian) K, Elections
2NR: CP and Elections


===Round 6 NextGen (Alpharetta GR)=== 
1NC: T-In, F-35 CP/H-1B CP, Air Power K, Elections DA, Dedev, Heg Bad
2NR: CP (Both Planks) and Elections




==St Marks== 

===Round 2: Port Security (Marist AB)=== 
1NC: T-Maintenance, Elections DA, Security K, (Threaten To) Nuke Mecca/H1-B CP, Prolif Good
2NR: T-Maintenance (Was conceded), Prolif Good

===Round 4: NIB (Barstow RS)=== 
1NC: T-Loan Guarentees, H1-B CP, Elections DA, Security K (Der Derian), Stim Bad
2NR: CP, Elections


===Round 6: AFRICOM (New Trier OL)=== 
1NC: T-investment/military/in, Privatization CP, Elections DA, Security K,(Der Derian)
2NR: T-Investment

===Quarters: Dredging (College Prep HP)=== 
1NC: T-Maintenance, Brazil should not cut down Amazon CP, Elections DA, Security K (Der Derian)
2NR: Security K

===Semis: DAR (Juan Diego MW)=== 
1NC: F-35 CP, Elections DA, T-Maintenance/substantial/military, Security K (Der Derian)
2NR: Elections



==Michigan== 
===Round 2: Title XI (Westminster LW)=== 
1NC: T-Loan Guarantees, Navy K, Seabasing CP, Elections DA, Oil Dep Good on case,
2NR: Elections DA



===Round 4: CCS (Westminster LP)=== 
1NC: T-Pipelines, Warming K, Ban Regulations/Sunshade CP, Elections DA, Dedev
2NR: Elections DA



===Round 6: Dredging (Iowa City GW)=== 
1NC: T-Maintenance, F-35 CP, Elections DA, T-FX, Warming K, Free trade/heg bad
2NR: F-35 CP, Free Trade Bad

==Grady Quest for the Dream== 
===Round 1: CCS (Wheeler MD)=== 
1NC: T-Pipelines, Warming K, Sunshades CP, Immigration reform DA, CO2 ag
2NR: Warming K (No alt-just dropped args), CP, CO2 Ag,


===Round 3: Surface Transportation (Woodward PV)=== 
1NC: T-Maintenance, Virillio K, Visas/F-35 CP, Immigration Reform DA, Stim Bad, Heg Bad
2NR: Virillio K (No alt just dropped args), CP, Stim Bad


===Round 5: HSR (Milton FM)=== 
1NC: Immigration reform DA, Virillio K, Visas CP/OTEC, Auto Industry Trade off, Stim Bad, Oil Dep Good
2NR: CP, Auto Industry,


==JV State== 
===Round 1: Port Security (Chattahooche DK)=== 

1NC: T-Maintenance, ACE CP, Immigration Reform DA, Fem IR K, Coast Guard IL Turn
2NR: CP, Politics


===Round 4: NextGen (Alpharetta HS)=== 
1NC: T-Communications, Air Power K, Privatization CP w/ FAA bad, Immigration Reform, Keynes Bad
2NR: CP, Politics

===Round 5: Nanotech (Hooch IW)=== 
1NC: T-Substantial, DOD Nanotech for DIB CP, Tech K, Immigration Reform DA, Keynes Bad
2NR: CP, Politics



==Harvard== 
===Round 2: AfroPessimism (East Kentwood SK)=== 
1NC: FrameWork, Body K, HERstory PIC, Diversity Forums CP, Civil Disobedience K, Cede the Political DA
2NR: HERstory PIC, Cede the Political DA


===Round 3: Bering Strait (Greenhill GR)=== 
1NC: T-In/Land Grants, Fem IR K, No European BMD CP, Immigration Reform DA, China Dedev, Relations IL Turn
2NR: Politics



===Round 5: Mass Transit (La Salle College GD)=== 
1NC: T-Vehicles, Cap K, States CP, Immigration Reform DA
2NR: CP, DA



===Round 7: New Silk Road (New Trier MC)=== 
1NC: T-Pipelines/In, ISAF CP, Global-Local K, Immigration Reform DA, Silk Road Terror Turn,
2NR: T-Pipelines



==Woodward== 
===Round 1: Ruralism (Niles North ET)=== 
1NC: T-Maintenance, Cap K of Ruralism, States CP, Immigration Reform DA
2NR: States, Politics

===Round 3: Federal Reserve (Chamblee AP)=== 
1NC: T-Fed Reserve not USFG, Fem IR K, States CP, Immigration Reform DA, 
2NR: States, Politics



===Round 6: NIB (Meadows CN)=== 
1NC: T-No Loan Guarantees, Reform Ex-IM into a TI bank/do P3s/use CBA in all projects, Fem IR K, Immigration Reform DA, NIB Bad
2NR: CP, Politics















[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]