[[toc]]
=Contact= 
Aff - kayceeantosiak@gmail.com neg - puja.gubbi@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
==Wake 1AC== 


==UT 1AC== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">**1AC**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Status quo American Indian reservation transportation infrastructure is underdeveloped, inaccessible, and dangerous – funding from the state is key</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NCAI 11 (National Congress of American Indians, 9-15-11, SENATE COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS HEARING, “Oversight hearing on tribal transportation: Paving the way for Jobs, Infrastructure, and Safety in Native Communities,” http://www.indian.senate.gov/hearings/upload/Jefferson-Keel-FINAL-testimony.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Currently, ……</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 11pt;"> __are crucial__</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">__.__ </span>

**Contention 2: Inequality**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First, lack of transportation infrastructure creates economic inequity and poverty in American Indian communities – and it’s reverse causal</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NCAI 12 (National Congress of American Indians, 2012, NCAI, “Budget Request, Fiscal year 2013,” http://www.ncai.org/resources/ncai-publications/indian-country-budget-request/fy2013/FY2013_Budget_Transportation.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Surface transportation …..</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 11pt;"> __and road maintenance needs__</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">__.__ Investing in tribal transportation will create jobs and make Native economies stronger.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Secondly, this disparity is rooted in colonialist practices that seek to hold American Indians captive and restricts resources necessary for everyday life – transportation is necessary to survival</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Boyles et. Al, 7 (Benjamin, Metapress, May 4, 2007, “Native American Transit Current Practices, Needs, and Barriers,” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">http://trb.metapress.com/content/qu42054t10716818/fulltext.pdf</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">For years, ….. employment, education, and other services, contributing to the high rates of unemployment and the poor health displayed by this population.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Next, lack of transportation infrastructure also isolates and disperses American Indians, fragmenting American Indian culture </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Srinivasan 06</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Ramseh Srinivasan, 01-01-06, International Journal of Cultural Studies 9.4, “Indigenous, Ethnic, and Cultural Articulations of New Media,” pp. 497-518, UC Los Angeles Postprints, http://escholarship.org/uc/item/40p4k54t </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The reservations of …. boundedness generates the fragmentation on the micro-scale. Indeed, natives often allege that the fertile land on their reservations is given to non-natives and farming cooperatives. As an example, here is a GIS-generated map of the San Pasqual reservation: </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, the decimation and containment of American Indian cultures is part of the ongoing genocide committed against the American Indians that pressurizes assimilation </span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Adams and Goldbard 95, Don Adams and Darlene Goldbard, writers and consultants in organizational and cultural development, 1995, Institute for Cultural Democracy, “Cultural Policy in US History,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.wwcd.org/policy/US/UShistory.html#AMERCULT|http://www.wwcd.org/policy/US/UShistory.html#AMERCULT]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The decimation ….. with dominant cultural forms and traditions. The official alternative to the reservation has been pressure to assimilate into the mainstream culture. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The end result of this system of political and economic exclusion of American Indians from the rights and protections of the political community is the worst form of totalitarian violence. Society pits American Indians as evil, external others who are excluded from the national life process. This formulation of political democracy is deeply complicit with the horrors and violence that have underpinned neo-colonial violence and acts of warfare, risking total annihilation in the name of utilitarian calculus. The state sphere can be a productive cite in which acts of hospitality can be extended to excluded others, incorporating them and redefining what politics is. Our affirmative is a challenge to the dominant way of relating to difference that restructures the political space towards a new place of freedom and inclusion. </span>**
<span class="MediumGrid2Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Duarte 5</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Andre, Professor of Philosophy at Universidade Federal do Paraná, Biopolitics and the Dissemination of Violence, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span>, April 27)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">As we know, ….. and welcoming, of extending hospitality and solidarity towards others.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Our critical perspective on the importance of American Indian people’s involvement in transportation infrastructure serves to reformulate status quo structures of dominance</span>**
<span class="MediumGrid2Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Robyn, 02</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Linda, Northern Arizona University criminal justice professor, “Indigenous Knowledge and Technology Creating Environmental Justice in the Twenty-First Century”, American Indian Quarterly, Spring 2002, vol. 26; no. 2, Project Muse, Accessed July 3, 08)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A critical …. relatedness.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It is both the moral and legal imperative for the federal government to act on this disparity and exclusion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Berry et al 3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> - Professor of American Social Thought and Professor of History at the University of Pennsylvania (Mary, US Commission on Civil Rights, “A Quiet Crises: Federal Funding and Unmet Needs in Indian Country”, [[http://www.usccr.gov/pubs/na0703/na0731.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">*Mary Berry is the chairperson of the commission </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The federal ….located (except those previously located by Christian nations). </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, everyday violence must be prioritized – it is the largest proximate cause of war and creates priming that psychologically structures the worst atrocities </span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois ‘4(Nancy and Philippe, Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">This large and at first sight ….. including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization). </span>

Plan Text:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for American Indian transportation infrastructure.</span>

Contention 3: Solvency
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal government controls and funds Indian Reservation Roads program</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left;">FHWA 12 (Federal Highway Administration, 1/23/12, US DOT, “Tribal Transportation Program Delivery Guide -2011*” http://flh.fhwa.dot.gov/programs/irr/guide/documents/irr-full-guide.pdf)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 11pt;">Indian ….</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> process.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Congress is key—failure to do the plan is a breach of the Trust Doctrine</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NCAI 2012 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(National Congress of American Indians, Fiscal Year 2013 Indian Country Budget Request: Our Trust. Our People. Our America. Executive Summary, http://www.ncai.org/resources/ncai-publications/indian-country-budget-request/FY2013_Budget_Exec_Summary.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">These FY 2013 budget …. in the appropriations process.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We must challenge the dominant Eurocentric narratives of policy and critical theory in order to avoid multiple forms of domination and colonialism. This does not imply replacing Western knowledge with indigenous forms – our epistemology is an inclusionary approach to politics and the only hope of solvency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Grosfoguel 7</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Ramon, Associate Professor. Chicano/Latino Studies, UC Berkeley, UNSETTLING POSTCOLONIALITY: COLONIALITY, TRANSMODERNITY AND BORDER THINKING, Duke University, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.afyl.org/descolonizingeconomy.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Among …. which the subject speaks.</span>

----




=Negative= 
==Negative Strategies== 
Wake
Round 1 2nr: China Fund/Elections
Round 3 2nr: Cap K
Round 5 2nr: T @ port security aff

UT
Round 2 2nr: Heg bad
Round 4 2nr: T @ ccs
Round 6 2nr: T @ ccs

UT Round Robin
Round 2: Biopower K
Round 4: Fear of Death K
Round 6: Framework
Round 7: T-investment @ d&g
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]