====[[toc]]==== 
= = 
Aff cites - morgan.torbert@gmail.com
Neg cites - rishiyshah@hotmail.com

1ACs/2NRs should be posted soon after tournaments, 1NCs/2NCs and 2ACs will be posted on request. The most recent 1AC is the one closest to the top.

=Affirmative= 
==1AC Dowling, Blake, IHSSA State== 
**Took out the Antarctic Treaty scenario.**

**On inherency:**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Their DAs are inevitable – others will use icebreakers if we don’t </span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Cohen 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Ariel, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security @ the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, and Anton Altman, Foundation Research Volunteer, 6-18-11, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten” Heritage Foundation,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, ACC: 9.24.11, p. online</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">__The Arctic is becoming the “wild west”__ <span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 20px;">...</span></span>__<span style="background-color: white;"> polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.</span>__

**On science diplomacy:**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Independently, icebreakers are key to science diplomacy- allow us to access to research stations for applied science research</span>**

**NRC 6**<span style="background-color: white;">-</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">NRC, September 2006, National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs” dels.nas.edu/dels/rpt_briefs/polar_icebreakers_final.pdf, ACC: 9.24.11, p. online</span>

__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The U.S. presence at McMurdo and South Pole Stations ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">as a leader in polar science.</span>__

**On trade:**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Don’t trust their defense – Russians are intentionally hiding their belligerence to encourage complacency in the US</span>**
**Huebert 10**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Professor of Political Science @ U of Calgary</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rob, “The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment,”</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf</span>

__<span style="background-color: white;">It should be clear that the Russians ...</span>____<span style="background-color: white;"> Russia? This is not known. </span>__
==1AC UMich== 
===Inherency=== 
**The US polar ice-breaker fleet is insufficient**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klimas 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jacqueline, “Coast Guard asks to buy new Arctic icebreaker”, 3.24.12, http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/03/navy-coast-guard-arctic-ice-breaker-032412w/, [CL])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Defense Department will help … to move forward,” he said.</span>

**No link uniqueness - there’s funding for one ice breaker in Obama’s budget**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alaskan Dispatch 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2/13/12</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.- Alaska Dispatch. [“Arctic icebreaker funded in Obama 2013 budget” < http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/arctic-icebreaker-funded-obama-2013-budget>]MRaina</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alaska U.S. Sen. Mark </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">Begich</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>**__<span style="background-color: lime;">still need more icebreaking capacity."</span>__**

===Antarctic Science=== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">Contention two is Antarctic Science.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Antarctic science is going to collapse because research stations are not adequately supplied– icebreakers key to solve</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Falkner 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Kelly, Deputy Director The National Science Foundation Office of Polar Programs, PhD Chemical Oceanography, College of Oceanic and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University, 12/1/11, written testimony, http://transportation.house.gov/hearings/Testimony.aspx?TID=6905) </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Chairman LoBiondo, Ranking Member … to the nation’s icebreaking needs.</span>

**We’ll isolate three scenarios.**

**First is the Antarctic Treaty.**

**Inability to resupply Arctic research bases collapses the Antarctic Treaty**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TNAP 07 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The National Academies Press, National Advisers in Science, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs” 2007, Online [HT])</span>

__Until recently, the two Polar … their associated outlying field sites.__

**Collapse of the Antarctic treaty leads to environmental destruction and armed conflict**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roura 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ricardo, environmental geologist, “Antarctica’s Wilderness Values”, 2011, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.oneworldmagazine.org/focus/southpole/contmain.htm</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) moxley</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As we continue to … rely on this duel protection.</span>

**Second is scientific diplomacy.**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Antarctic science is key to global science diplomacy</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Collins 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Terry, associate editor of Green Chemistry, prof @ Auckland U, “Founded on science, world cooperation in Antarctica a model for meeting climate, other challenges”, 6/16/11,http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2011-06/cfgs-fos061011.php) </span>

__<span style="background-color: lime;">The success of</span>__ __world co-… -making on shared global interests."__

**<span style="background-color: white;">Science diplomacy solves practically every impact</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Federoff 08</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Nina, science and technology adviser to the Sec of State, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110hhrg41470/html/CHRG-110hhrg41470.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, … </span>__global partnerships, and create sustainability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">Third is radio astronomy. </span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Antarctic science is key to radio astronomy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">NRC 07</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (National Research Council, “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD: An Assessment of U.S. Needs, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, Polar Research Board, Division on Earth and Life Studies NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1) </span>

__<span style="background-color: white;">Antarctic research in this area … </span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">their source in the universe.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">Radio astronomy leads to exoplanet discovery</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">BPA 10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – (2010, Committee on Scientific Use of the Radio Spectrum, Committee on Radio Frequencies, Board on Physics and Astronomy, Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, National Research Council of the National Academies, chaired by Adam Burrows, PhD from MIT, Full Professor in the Department of Astrophysical Sciences at Princeton University, includes many other smart people, “Spectrum Management for Science in the 21st Century,” http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12800&page=R1)</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Origin of Planets and … </span>__<span style="background-color: white;">fit into the general picture. </span>__

**<span style="background-color: white;">Exoplanet discovery causes space colonization</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Harrold 8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – (7/18/08, quoting Sara Seager, PhD, Ellen Swallow Richards Professor of Planetary Science and Professor of Physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Max, staff writer for The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” lexis)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">With less fanfare than H.G. … said it's okay to look."</span>

**Space col possible – Mars and the Moon prove**
**Villanueva 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John Carl, 3/30/10, “Space Colonization”, Universe Today, [[http://www.universetoday.com/61085/space-colonization/]]) RYS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Apollo Program has … </span>__ice deposits__ __on its surface.__

**<span style="background-color: white;">Now key – extinction event likely</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Young 3 </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">[</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">John W. Young, former astronaut and associate technical director of NASA Johnson Space Center, "The BIG Picture: Ways to Mitigate or Prevent Very Bad Planet Earth Events," http:Ilspace.balettie.com/Young.html]</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Conclusion: The human race is at total war. ... preserving our species over the long haul.</span>

**Every second we put off space col wastes one hundred trillion lives**
**Bostrom 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University [Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314,http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As I write these words, suns … accommodated without changing the conclusion.</span>

===Trade=== 
**Contention three is the Navy**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Russian icebreakers dominate Arctic trade routes – blocks out the US</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke et al. 08 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008,http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)</span>

__There is one geographic area … as a faster trans-oceanic route.__

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Icebreakers are key to counter Russia and have access to Arctic trade</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke et al. 08 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. NavyandNavigatingClimateChange”,December 2008,http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)</span>

__<span style="background-color: lime;">Disruptions to global shipping </span>____and … other interests in the Arctic.__

<span class="Underline">**Strong trade is a prerequisite to solve most impacts through economic interdependence and cooperation**</span>
**Pantichpakdi 04** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Secretary-General of the UN Conference on Trade and Development (Supachai, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?” 2/26/2004, http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The second point is that </span>__… **and prosperity****, a more just world.**__

<span class="Underline">**The impact to trade collapse is nuclear war**</span>
**Copley News Service 99**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (12/1/99, No Title, “Commentary” section, Dec 1, Lexis)</span>
__For decades, many children__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in … </span>__trade. They should be celebrating it.__

**The Arctic will be a critical trade region – icebreakers are key to ensure access**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Burke et al. 08 </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for the Center for a New American Security. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__<span style="background-color: lime;">If the Arctic sea-lanes … </span>____naval ties with Northern allies.__

===Plan=== 
**Thus the plan,**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Text: The United States federal government should invest in the construction of four heavy-duty polar icebreakers and ensure that the POLAR SEA remains mission capable and that the POLAR STAR remains available for reactivation. We reserve the right to clarify.</span>**

===Solvency=== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">Contention four is solvency.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">The plan solves and their CPs don’t</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Jones 06</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Anita, Ph.D in computer science @ Carnegie Mellon, Director of Defense Research and Engineering for the U.S. Department of Defense 1993-97, researcher & director @ National Academy of Sciences, prof @ U of Virginia, 9/26/6, “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD:AN ASSESSMENT OF U.S. NEEDS”, Congressional Testimony,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www7.nationalacademies.org/ocga/testimony/Polar_Icebreakers_in_a_Changing_World.asp) </span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">RENEWAL OF THE NATION’S POLAR … agency responsibilities and budgetary authorities. </span>

**The best way to solve is building more ice breakers – scheduling, distance, solves research and presence**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Venzke 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard (Norm, icebreaker sailor, severed on four icebreakers, March, http://www.michaelyon-online.com/images/pdf/icebreakers.pdf, “We Need More Icebreakers!”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States icebreaker fleet … to support the 2008-09 McMurdo resupply. </span>

**The plan is cost effective and will provide at least a 30 year lifespan for the icebreakers**
**O'Rourke 12,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Specialist in Naval Affairs( Ronald June 14, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress” Congressional Research Service)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Coast Guard estimated in … Polar Platform Business Case Analysis.”33</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==1AC Caucus== 
St. Marks 1AC with:

**No prior questions in IR**
**Owen 2** – Reader of Political Theory, U Southampton (David, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7)

Commenting on … vicious circle arises.
==1AC New Trier and St. Marks== 
===1AC Inherency=== 

**Contention one is inherency.**

**The US polar ice-breaker fleet is insufficient**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klimas 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jacqueline, “Coast Guard asks to buy new Arctic icebreaker”, 3.24.12, http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/03/navy-coast-guard-arctic-ice-breaker-032412w/, [CL])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Defense Department will help ... to move forward,” he said.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">No link uniqueness - there’s funding for one ice breaker in Obama’s budget</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AD. </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2/13/</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">- Alaska Dispatch. [“Arctic icebreaker funded in Obama 2013 budget” < http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/arctic-icebreaker-funded-obama-2013-budget>]MRaina</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alaska U.S. Sen. Mark </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">Begich</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span>**__<span style="background-color: lime;">still need more icebreaking capacity."</span>__**

===**1AC Antarctic Science**=== 

**<span style="background-color: white;">Contention two is Antarctic Science.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Antarctic science is going to collapse – icebreakers key to solve</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Falkner 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Kelly, Deputy Director The National Science Foundation Office of Polar Programs, PhD Chemical Oceanography, College of Oceanic and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University, 12/1/11, written testimony, http://transportation.house.gov/hearings/Testimony.aspx?TID=6905)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Chairman LoBiondo, Ranking Member Larsen ... to the nation’s icebreaking needs.</span>

====**1AC Science Diplomacy**==== 

**<span style="background-color: white;">Antarctic science is key to global science diplomacy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Collins 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Terry, associate editor of Green Chemistry, prof @ Auckland U, “Founded on science, world cooperation in Antarctica a model for meeting climate, other challenges”, 6/16/11,</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2011-06/cfgs-fos061011.php)</span>

__<span style="background-color: lime;">The success of</span>__ __world co-operation ...__ __decision-making on shared global interests."__

**<span style="background-color: white;">Science diplomacy solves practically every impact</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Federoff 08</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Nina, science and technology adviser to the Sec of State, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110hhrg41470/html/CHRG-110hhrg41470.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers ...</span> __global partnerships, and create sustainability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====**<span style="background-color: white;">1AC Radio Astronomy</span>**==== 

**<span style="background-color: white;">Antarctic science is key to radio astronomy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">NRC 07</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (National Research Council, “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD: An Assessment of U.S. Needs, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, Polar Research Board, Division on Earth and Life Studies NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1)</span>

__<span style="background-color: white;">Antarctic research in this area covers</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> ...determine their source in the universe.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">Radio astronomy leads to exoplanet discovery</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">BPA 10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – (2010, Committee on Scientific Use of the Radio Spectrum, Committee on Radio Frequencies, Board on Physics and Astronomy, Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, National Research Council of the National Academies, chaired by Adam Burrows, PhD from MIT, Full Professor in the Department of Astrophysical Sciences at Princeton University, includes many other smart people, “Spectrum Management for Science in the 21st Century,” http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12800&page=R1)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Origin of Planets and the Solar System ...</span>__<span style="background-color: white;"> fit into the general picture.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: white;">Exoplanet discovery causes space colonization </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Harrold 8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – (7/18/08, quoting Sara Seager, PhD, Ellen Swallow Richards Professor of Planetary Science and Professor of Physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Max, staff writer for The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” lexis)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's ... astronomer has said it's okay to look."</span>

**Every second we put off space col wastes one hundred trillion lives**
**Bostrom 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University [Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314,http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As I write these words, ... accommodated without changing the conclusion.</span>

===1AC Navy=== 
**Contention three is the Navy.**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Russian icebreakers dominate Arctic trade routes – blocks out the US</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke et al. 08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008,http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)</span>

__There is one geographic area in particular ...__ __Passage as a faster trans-oceanic route.__

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Icebreakers are key to counter Russia and ensure access to Arctic trade</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Burke et al. 08** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008,http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)</span>

__<span style="background-color: lime;">Disruptions to global shipping </span>____and__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ...</span> __and other interests in the Arctic.__

<span class="Underline">**Strong trade is a prerequisite to solve most impacts - collapse causes war**</span>
**Pantichpakdi 04** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Secretary-General of the UN Conference on Trade and Development (Supachai, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?” 2/26/2004, http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The second point is that </span>__strengthening ...__ **__prosperity, a more just world.__**

**The Arctic will be a critical trade region – icebreakers are key to ensure access**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Burke et al. 8 </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for the Center for a New American Security. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__<span style="background-color: lime;">If the Arctic sea-lanes are opened ...</span>__ __reinforcing naval ties with Northern allies.__

===1AC Methane=== 
**Contention four is methane.**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Methane drilling going to happen soon</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Llanos 12</span>**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Miguel, “US claims 'unprecedented' success in test for new fuel source,”http://usnews.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2012/05/05/11522433-us-claims-unprecedented-success-in-test-for-new-fuel-source?lite</span>

__<span style="color: #333333;">Could </span>__<span class="Underline">the future of cleaner fossil fuel ... resource while sequestering carbon dioxide."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Icebreaking prevents methane drilling accidents</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jones et al 7</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor @ UVA, Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie-Mellon University, member of the Defense Science Board, the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory Corporation, the National Research Council Advisory Council for Policy and Global Affairs, and the MIT Corporation [Anita, First author for the Polar Research Board in the National Research Council, “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD,” Google Book]</span>

The<span class="Underline"> U.S. </span>Coast Guard seeks to ..<span class="Underline"> technology for oil spill response</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**Methane release is worse than nuclear war**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ryskin 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University [“Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, September 2003. <http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf>]</span>

<span class="Underline">The </span>consequences of a methane<span class="Underline">-driven ... nuclearwinter scenario</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Turco et al., 1991).</span>

===1AC Plan=== 

**Thus the plan,**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Text: The United States federal government should invest in the construction of six heavy-duty polar icebreakers and ensure that the POLAR SEA remains mission capable and that the POLAR STAR remains available for reactivation. We reserve the right to clarify.</span>**

===1AC Solvency=== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">Contention five is solvency.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">The plan solves and their CPs don’t</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Jones 06</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Anita, Ph.D in computer science @ Carnegie Mellon, Director of Defense Research and Engineering for the U.S. Department of Defense 1993-97, researcher & director @ National Academy of Sciences, prof @ U of Virginia, 9/26/6, “POLAR ICEBREAKERS IN A CHANGING WORLD:AN ASSESSMENT OF U.S. NEEDS”, Congressional Testimony,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www7.nationalacademies.org/ocga/testimony/Polar_Icebreakers_in_a_Changing_World.asp)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">RENEWAL OF THE NATION’S POLAR </span><span style="background-color: white;">__...__</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> agency responsibilities and budgetary authorities.</span>

**The best way to solve is building more ice breakers – scheduling, distance, solves research and presence**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Venzke 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard (Norm, icebreaker sailor, severed on four icebreakers, March, http://www.michaelyon-online.com/images/pdf/icebreakers.pdf, “We Need More Icebreakers!”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States icebreaker fleet is a... to support the 2008-09 McMurdo resupply.</span>

**The plan is cost effective and will provide at least a 30 year lifespan for the icebreakers**
**O'Rourke 12,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Specialist in Naval Affairs( Ronald June 14, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress” Congressional Research Service)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Coast Guard estimated in February 2008 ... independent Polar Platform Business Case Analysis.”33</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==1AC - Niles Round 5== 

**New plan text -**

**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in railroads** **in Alaska for railways necessary for a Bering Strait tunnel.**

**Took out the 1st Burroughs card on solvency.**

==1AC - Niles Township - Rounds 1 and 3== 

===**1AC Inherency**=== 

**Contention one is inherency.**

**Russia is fully committed to a Bering Strait tunnel—US support is key and the project would solve US-Russian relations and Russian Far East development**
**Moscow News 12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Tunneling to America?” April 28, http://themoscownews.pressdisplay.com/epaper/viewer.aspx)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Russia's Urals oil has been ... </span>__Moscow could be **welded in steel**__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===1AC Plan=== 

**Thus the plan:**

**Text: The United States federal government should offer modified land grants in Alaska for railways necessary for a Bering Strait tunnel.**

===1AC US-Russia Relations=== 

**Contention two is US-Russia relations.**

**US-Russia** **relations unstable now**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lendman 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Lendman, 6/23/12 (MBA, University of Pennsylvania, former research analyst, writer on national topics and war and peace, Cold War Politics Redux, [[http://www.indybay.org/newsitems/2012/06/23/18716091.php]], S.O.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Following Soviet Russia's dissolution, everything ... So do supportive media scoundrels.</span>

**The aff cements US-Russia co-operation**
**Barry 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [ Mark P. Barry, //Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace,// October 04, 2011//,// “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]], DMintz]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Russian Impact on the ... </span>__task of permanent peace-building.__

**US-Russia relations are vital to preventing nuclear war and solving multiple impacts**
<span class="Author-Date">**Allison & Blackwill, ’11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That central point is that ...</span><span class="Underline"> __in advancing our national interests.__</span>

**US-Russia war is an existential risk**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bostrom 02</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The unique challenge of </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">existential</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

===1AC Russia Far East=== 

**Contention three is the Russia Far East.**

**The RFE is underdeveloped in the status quo – China can invade now**
**von Eggert 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Konstantin, 5/09, “Due West: APEC Summit a Chance for Moscow to Shift Asia Policy”, a sister website for RIA Novosti, [[http://en.rian.ru/columnists/20120905/175788548.html]]. Konstantin von Eggert is a commentator and host for radio Kommersant FM, Russia's first 24-hour news station. In the 1990s he was Diplomatic Correspondent for “Izvestia” and later the BBC Russian Service Moscow Bureau Editor. Konstantin has also spent some time working as ExxonMobil Vice-President in Russia. He was made Honorary Member of the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II.) RYS </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Kremlin looks at the upcoming ... most powerful nation is concerned.</span>

**Bering Strait tunnel is key to Russian Far East development—now is key**
**Dialine 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">RUSDATA DIALINE - RUSSIAN PRESS DIGEST 2011 (“Yakutsk dreams of traveling to America by railway,” August 19, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">According to Razbegin, </span>__the transpor__t ... __two continents will be connected__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**The plan would draw world attention and overcome barriers to investment**
**Dalziel 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Stephen, executive director of the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce, “From London to New York via Siberia on train;” This online supplement is produced and published by Rossiyskaya Gazeta (Russia), which takes sole responsibility for the content, The Telegraph, Oct 15, lexis)</span>

__Russia's size is a blessing a__ ... __a man on the Moon__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**We’ll isolate two scenarios:**</span>

<span class="Underline">**First is China:**</span>

**Infrastructure development in the Russian Far East is key to prevent Chinese encroachment**
**Blagov 07** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Sergei, Moscow-based analyst for ISN Security Watch, EnerPub, April 2, [[http://www.energypublisher.com/article.asp?idarticle=8786]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, critics have questioned the ... external power, such as </span>__China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The impact is nuclear winter**
**Shravin 01** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Alexander, Director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis, What the Papers Say, Oct 3)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now, a few words about ...</span> __of a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> possible </span>__nuclear winter__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Second is Russian stability:**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Integrating RFE resources is key to overall Russian stability**</span>
**Garnett 00**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Sherman, Dean of James Madison College at MSU, Rapprochement or Rivalry? p34)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Finally, the </span>__integration of the ...__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the future of all Asia.</span>

**Political instability causes a nuclear strike on the US**
**Pry 99** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Peter Vincent, Former US Intelligence Operative, War Scare: U.S.-Russia on the Nuclear Brink, netlibrary)</span>

__Russian internal troubles—such as a...__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> it was in grave peril.</span>

===1AC Rail Integration=== 

**Contention four is global integration.**

<span class="Underline">**The plan leads to global rail integration—solves all war**</span>
**Burroughs 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>

__The benefits to international relations ...__ __real or perceived international injustices__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**We’ll isolate two internal links to trade:**</span>

**First is global rail integration – it also solves inequality, environmental protection, and international cooperation**
**Burroughs 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>

__Railway development across the globe__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, ... </span>__well before the end of this century__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Second is congestion:**

**Port congestion will cause a collapse in trade now—Northern sea routes are key**
**Oliver 07**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (James, writer and journalist, The Bering Strait Crossing: A 21st Century Frontier Between East and West, </span>202)

__In regional terms, Anchorage is ...____transport corridors offer such potential__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**The plan solves congestion**
**Burroughs 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Additional funds can be raised ...</span> __containers onto the rails faster__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Strong trade is a prerequisite to solve all problems—collapse causes war**</span>
**Pantichpakdi 04** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Secretary-General of the UN Conference on Trade and Development (Supachai, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?” 2/26/2004, [[http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The second point is that </span>__strengthening ...__ **__prosperity, a more just world.__**

<span class="Underline">**The impact to trade collapse is nuclear war**</span>
**Copley News Service 99**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (No Title, “Commentary” section, Dec 1, Lexis)</span>

__For decades, many children__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in ...</span> __They should be celebrating it.__

**And, even if they win free trade is bad, collapse of international trade causes blocs which exacerbate our impact.**
**Cooke ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – trade unionist, writer for Workers Action, frequent contributor to Global Research (Shamus, 11-15, “What Is At Stake With Free Trade”, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=viewArticle&code=COO20091115&articleId=16096)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And go alone they have. </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">wider aims within a larger system.</span>

===1AC Grid=== 

**Contention five is the grid.**

**Bering Strait tunnel would link the US and Russian electricity grids**
**Newser 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Russia OKs Underwater Tunnel to Alaska,” Sep 1, [[http://www.newser.com/story/127481/russia-oks-underwater-bering-strait-tunnel-to-alaska.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">How do you get from</span> __Russia to Alaska and Canada__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Power links will be laid before the railroad is even completed—this alone pays for the project**
**Burroughs 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>

__The rail right-of-way can also ...__ __in completion of the overall project__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Connecting the US and Russian electrical grids spills over to unite the entire planet—solves energy availability and pollution**
**Aleksnadrov et al 92**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Gregory N. Aleksnadrov, Leningrad Tech. Univ. Afzal Khan, Alaska Energy Authority Moe Aslam, Municipal Light and Power Peter Meisen, GENI Raghbir S. Basi, Alaska Pacific Univ. Brent Petrie, Alaska Energy Authority Lev S. Belyaev, Siberian Energy Institute Robert Retherford, P.E. Consultant Bob Bulmer, Alaska Dept. of Commerce Nikolai Voropai, Siberian Energy Institute Vladilen Fotin, Electrotechnical Institute Michael Wolfe, Int'l Energy Systems Consultant Vladimir Gatanov, HVDC Power Transmission Research Inst. Norio Yamamoto, Global Infrastructure Fund Japan (Attended 1/15 only) Dora Gropp, Chugach Electric Assoc. Victor Yershevich, Energoset Project “The Potential of an Electrical Interconnection Between Russia and North America” Held in Anchorage, Alaska, USA January 15-17, 1992, [[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/newsletters/1992/the-potential-of-an-electrical-interconnection-between-russia-and-north-america.shtml]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Recent advances in </span>__extra high-voltage__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ...</span> __pollutants that cause global warming.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Pollution causes extinction**
**Driesen 03**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (David, Associate Professor, Syracuse University College of Law. J.D. Yale Law School, 1989, Fall/Spring, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, p. 26-30</span>

**__Air pollution can make life ...__** **__life a healthy and productive life__.**

**Linking the grid is key to solving overpopulation**
**Meinsen 94**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Peter, President of the Global Energy Network International, “Want To Contain Global Population? Expand Energy Resources,” November, [[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/geni/world-citizen-news/want-to-contain-global-population-expand-energy-resources/index.shtml]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Delegates attending </span>__the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> recent </span>__U.N__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.-sponsored ...</span> __enormous economic and environmental benefits__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Overpopulation causes nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ehrlich and Ehrlich, 90</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *Professor of Population Studies and Professor of Biological Sciences @ Stanford and Senior Research Associate in the Department of Biological Sciences @ Stanford </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul and Anne, “The Bang, the Whimper, and the Alternative,” [[http://www.ditext.com/ehrlich/9.html]])</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By now it should be clear ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __face of growing East-West rapprochement.__</span>**

===1AC Solvency=== 

**Contention six is solvency.**

**Modified land grants solve infrastructure development without spending**
**Burroughs 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The big question in any multi-nation ...</span> __their investment in the railroad’s bonds__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>**

**Shipping will pay for the tunnel**
**Burroughs 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>

**__Once an intercontinental rail link ...__ __very rapidly after its opening__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>**

**The tunnel will be completed by 2019**
**Burroughs 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>

**__Given sufficient funding__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> over the ...</span> __memorable dates in world history__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>**

**US and Russia are key—other countries will get on board**
**KyivPost 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">RUSSIA & CIS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWSWIRE 2012 (“Russian Railways chief believes tunnel can be built under Bering Strait,” April 9, http://www.kyivpost.com/content/russia-and-former-soviet-union/russian-railways-chief-believes-tunnel-can-be-buil-125745.html)</span>

**__A decision on building a tunnel ...__ __cooperation is__** __inevitable__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">," he said.</span>**

**Direct US involvement is key to access – outsourcing the plan will lock the US out.**
**Soloview, 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Fyodor, Founder, Interbering.com, Interbering Breifing, 6-25-2012, [[http://www.interbering.com/]]]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Alaska will benefit from a</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> in Germany to end a war.</span>__

**US federal action is key to the success of the Bering Tunnel – national security**
**Berry, 11**** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mark, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, 10-4-2011, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Those nations above the Arctic Circle ... and Canada must not be sidelined or forgotten.</span>
=Negative= 
==CPs== 

===State PIC=== 

====1NC Shell==== 

**CP Text: Rishi and I advocate that we should [INSERT PLAN HERE].**

**The net benefit - assuming the role of the legislator lets us off the hook for our own responsibility in shaping social change and forecloses the possibility of meaningful change; in the process, violence becomes more likely because those who experience oppression are seen as perpetrators of violence.**
**Kappeler 95**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">`We are the war' does ... </span>__values of war and violence__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>

====2NC Overview==== 

**And, fiat is bad – it precludes the possibility of real-world change.**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Kappeler 95</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Susanne, Associate Professor at the School of Humanities¶ and Social Sciences, Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behaviour) Pg. 15 </span>

A vision<span style="font-size: 11px;">, moreover</span><span class="Underline">, </span>is the ... also on our own thinking.

====A2: Perm==== 
**The global-local combination creates the perfect prerequisite for conflict**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Srnicek, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – degree in political science from the University of Western Ontario, graduate student in International Relations at the London School of Economics, Mendeley member in Social Sciences, (Nick, “Conflict Networks: Collapsing the Global into the Local”, Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, Issue 2, 2010, http://criticalglobalisation.com/Issue2/30_64_CONFLICT_NETWORKS_ JCGS2.pdf)//JKahn</span>

<span class="Underline">What is required to overcome these ... </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">connections operative within conflict.</span>

**Working within the state only sustains it**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">**Nayar 99** </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">Copyright (c) 1999 Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems Fall, 1999 9 Transnat'l L. & Contemp. Probs. 599. “SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity” Jayan Nayar (Ph. D from the University of Cambridge, Professor of International Development Law and Human Rights and the University of Warwick) cylab.info/u/JQ/texts/Nayar-_Orders_of_Inhumanity.doc</span>

<span class="Underline">The power of world-ordering to ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> followed from this experience?</span>

**Global proposals are inherently coopted, only local movements can reflect appropriate responsibility**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Esteva and Prakash 98</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> President of the 5th World Congress on Rural Sociology and Professor of Educational Theory at the University of Pennsylvania State (Gustavo and Madhu Suri, “Grassroots Post-Modernism – Remaking the Soil of Cultures”, Pg. 27-28 ) </span>

<span class="Underline">Global proposals are</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> necessarily </span><span class="Underline">parochial</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">: ... </span><span class="Underline">the human horizon itself. </span>

===Pre-Natal Screening CP=== 

====1NC Shell==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #2a2a2a; display: block; font-family: tahoma;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Text: The United States federal government should prohibit the use of pre natal screening and testing.</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #2a2a2a; display: block; font-family: tahoma;">
</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #2a2a2a; display: block; font-family: tahoma;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The medical visualization of the fetus naturalizes disability and leads to a culture of abelist eugenics.</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #2a2a2a; display: block; font-family: tahoma;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tremain 06**, was the 1997–1998 Ed Roberts Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of California, Berkeley, and the World Institute on Disability. From 1998 to 2001, she worked as a research associate and principal investigator at Canada's national policy research institute to promote the human rights of disabled people [Shelley, “Reproductive Freedom, Self-Regulation, and the Government of Impairment in Utero”, Hypatia Vol. 21 no. 1, Muse]</span></span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #2a2a2a; display: block; font-family: tahoma;">
</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #2a2a2a; display: block; font-family: tahoma;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">In this article, I examine some ...<span style="background-color: aqua;"> the normalization of the fetal body</span>.</span></span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #2a2a2a; display: block; font-family: tahoma;">
</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #2a2a2a; display: block; font-family: tahoma;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Pre-natal screening reinscribes the liberal intolerance for the disabled body</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #2a2a2a; display: block; font-family: tahoma;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Breckenridge & Vogler 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Department of South Asian Languages and Civilizations at the University of Chicago & an associate professor of philosophy at the University of Chicago and codirector of the Master's Program in the Humanities [Carol A. & Candace, “The Critical Limits of Embodiment: Disability's Criticism”, Public Culture 13.3]</span></span></span>
<span class="Underline">The willed production of disability ... possibility of disabled modal citizens. </span>
==DAs== 

===Food Prices DA=== 
***Updated after New Trier

====1NC Shell==== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Food prices high – statements prove</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mdluli 10/2 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ayanda, 10/2/12, “Big food firms get ready to lift prices”, Business Report, [[http://www.iol.co.za/business/business-news/big-food-firms-get-ready-to-lift-prices-1.1393975#.UGsRqE2jySo|http://www.iol.co.za/business/business-news/big-food-firms-get-ready-to-lift-prices-1.1393975#.UGsRqE2jySo]]) RYS </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Food prices are set to ... by more than 100 percent.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transportation infrastructure investment lowers food prices</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">PECC 04</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (“The Role of Transportation Infrastructure in a Seamless Food System,” Pacific Food System Outlook 2004-2005, [[http://www.pecc.org/resources/doc_view/638-pacific-food-system-outlook-the-role-of-transportation-infrastructure-in-a-seamless-food-system]] MGE)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">From a local perspective, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">building ... </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">transportation services to avoid bottlenecks.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">High food prices will keep the Ukrainian economy strong now—agriculture is key to overwhelm losses by other industries</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hugh 08 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Edward, economist, “Ukraine Inflation April 2008,” Ukraine Economy Watch, May 12, [[http://ukraineeconomy.blogspot.com/2008/05/ukraine-inflation-april-2008.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the short term the agricultural ... rather moderate 14% soy increase.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ukrainian economic strength is key to prevent nationalism and collapse—the impact is U.S.-Russian nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Romanenko 08 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">12-1-2008(Yuriy, Ukranian political scientist, “Ukraine is heading for a civil war,” December 1, [[http://www.warandpeace.ru/en/article/view/30081/]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Economic crisis will cause ... </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Russia as well as Europe</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====2NC Overview==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">a) magnitude- US-Russia war is the only existential risk</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bostrom 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;"> (Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">The unique challenge of </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">existential risks ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

====Biotech Impact==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">High food prices spur biotech development</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">CBS Money Watch 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">(March, “Why Rising Food Prices Mean Good Times for Monsanto and Its Biotech Seeds,” [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-505123_162-44042691/why-rising-food-prices-mean-good-times-for-monsanto-and-its-biotech-seeds/MGD|http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-505123_162-44042691/why-rising-food-prices-mean-good-times-for-monsanto-and-its-biotech-seeds///MGD]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Global food prices set an ...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">that's still an open question. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Advancing biotech industry solves bioterrorism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Smith et al 03</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">- *fellow at the Center for Biosecurity of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Director of the Center for Biosecurity of UPMC, Chair of the Board of Scientific Counselors, Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response at the CDC, * Under Secretary of the Science and Technology Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security.(BRADLEY T. SMITH, THOMAS V. INGLESBY, and TARA O’TOOLE “Biodefense R&D: Anticipating Future Threats, Establishing a Strategic Environment,” Biosecurity and Bioterrorism. Volume 1, Number 3, 2003 [[http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2003/2003-09-15-biodefenserandd.html//MGD]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">THE ULTIMATE OBJECTIVE OF </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">THE ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">as agents of mass lethality.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Matheny 7- research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, PhD in economics from Hopkins </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">(Jason, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007 www.physics.harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf//MGD) </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Of current extinction risks, the ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006) </span>

====A2: High Food Prices Bad - Generic==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Ukraine could dramatically increase agricultural production—this could feed 100 million people alone– but high food prices key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">SOUTHGATE</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">11-14-20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">(Douglas Southgate is professor of agricultural, environmental and development economics at Ohio State University and author of a forthcoming International Policy Network report on world food supplies, The Hamilton Spectator)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Ukraine is a perfect example of ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">lower in Asia's second-largest nation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">No wars over food</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Salehyan, 08 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">(Idean Salehyan (Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas) May 2008 “From Climate Change to Conflict? No Consensus Yet*” Journal of Peace Research, vol. 45, no. 3 http://emergingsustainability.org/files/resolver%20climate%20change%20and%20conflict.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">First, the deterministic view has poor ... immunize states from armed insurrection.\</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Your lit base is rigged to come to the conclusion that scarcity leads to conflict – prefer our evidence</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 15px;">Victor, 08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">(David G. Victor, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Science and Technology professor of law at Stanford Law School and the director of the Program on Energy and Sustainable Development. He is also a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations 1-2-08 Smoke and Mirrors The National Interest)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11px;">Nearly all of the vast literature ... </span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">coincide with exceptionally poor governance.</span>
==Neg Strats== 
===Niles Township=== 

**Round 2 vs CR Wash BL (Homelessness Aff)**

1NC: T - Effects, Cap K, Congress CP, Court Legitimacy DA
2NC: Cap K, Poverty Reps Bad, Biopower Good
1NR: T - Effects
2NR: Poverty Reps Bad, Biopower Good

**Round 4 vs GBS MB (NextGen)**

1NC: Cap K, States CP, Elections DA (Obama Good)
2NC: States CP, Cap K, Heg Bad, Warming Good
1NR: Solvency and Elections DA
2NR: Elections DA, Heg Bad, Warming Good

**Round 5 vs Roosvelt HH (CCS)**

1NC: T - Pipelines, Cap K, States CP, Elections DA, Earthquakes DA
2NC: DeDev, Warming Good, Earthquakes DA, Regulations CP
1NR: Elections DA
2NR: Regulations CP and Elections DA

===New Trier=== 

**Round 2 vs GBN KM (Dredging)**

1NC: Cap K, Predictions K, Food Prices DA
2NC: Predictions K, Food Prices
1NR: Case D
2NR: Predictions K
2AR: Condo

**Round 4 vs Bishop Guertin ID (Dredging)**

1NC: Cap K, PPPs CP, Food Prices DA
2NC: Food Prices DA, Case D
1NR: PPPs CP
2NR: Food Prices DA, Case D
2AR: Condo

**Round 5 vs Marquette LC (Crash - DnG)**

1NC: Framework, Cap K, States CP, Elections DA
2NC: Framework, Cap, States CP
1NR: States CP, Elections DA, Case D
2NR: Framework

===St. Marks=== 

**Round 2 vs Highland Park HS (Inland Waterways Trust Fund)**

1NC: States CP, Elections DA, Food Prices DA
2NC: States CP, Food Prices DA, Case
1NR: Elections DA
2NR: States CP, Elections DA

**Round 4 vs Colleyville Heritage CL (Quantum Teleportation)**

1NC: T - T.I., Predictions K, PPPs CP, Food Prices DA
2NC: Predictions K, PPPs CP, Case
1NR: T
2NR: PPPs CP

**Round 6 vs CE Byrd NG (Disabilities)**

1NC: Cap K, Predictions K, Ban Prenatal Screening CP, Elections DA
2NC: Elections DA, Case
1NR: Cap K
2NR: Cap K

===Iowa Caucus=== 

**Round 1 vs Barstow SH (NIB)**

1NC: T - Increase, T - T.I., Predictions K, TIFIA + Restoring America's Future CP, Oil DA
2NC: DeDev, Predictions K, Restoring America's Future CP
1NR: Oil DA
2NR: Predictions K

**Round 3 vs Washburn Rural PO (CCS)**

1NC: T - Not Pipelines, Cap K, Sunshades + Taiwan Arms Sales CP, Elections DA
2NC: T - Not Pipelines, Sunshades + Taiwan Arms Sales CP, Case D
1NR: Elections DA
2NR: T - Not Pipelines

**Round 6 vs Shawnee Mission South OW (Dam Removal)**

1NC: T - increase, T - substantial, Predictions K, Devolution CP, Elections DA
2NC: T - substantial, Devolution CP, BioD Collapse Good
1NR: Elections DA
2NR: T - substantial

===UMich=== 

**Round 1 vs Seaholm GH (HTF)**

1NC: Predictions K, Building America's Future + Sunshades CP, Food Prices DA
2NC: CO2 Good, Heg Bad, DeDev, Building America's Future + Sunshades CP
1NR: Food Prices DA
2NR: Building America's Future + Sunshades CP, Food Prices DA

**Round 4 vs HoFlo GF (New Orleans)**

1NC: Kappeler K, Smart Power CP, Food Prices DA
2NC: Case D, Util Good, Food Prices DA
1NR: Smart Power CP
2NR: Smart Power CP, Food Prices DA, Util Good

**Round 5 vs Carrollton AR (Icebreakers)**

1NC: T - Vehicles, Cap K, Food Prices DA
2NC: Cap K
1NR: T - Vehicles
2NR: Cap K

===Glenbrooks=== 
**Round 2 vs New Trier CM (Icebreakers)**

1NC: Cap K, State PIC, Buy America DA
2NC: Buy America DA, Case D
1NR: State PIC
2NR: State PIC

**Round 4 vs Saint Paul Central BP (Rural Roads)**
1NC: Cap K, PPPs CP, Food Prices DA, Poverty Reps K on case
2NC: PPPs CP, Food Prices DA
1NR: Poverty Reps K
2NR: Food Prices DA, Poverty Reps Bad

**Round 6 vs Notre Dame NL (Bering Strait Tunnel)**
1NC: Predictions K, Reforms towards Russia + Give Aid to Russia CP, Build America Bonds DA
2NC: Predictions K, Case D
1NR: DeDev (2AC read an econ add-on)
2NR: Predictions K

===Dowling=== 

**Round 1 vs James Logan GY (HTF)**

1NC: Predictions K, States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Food Prices DA
2NC: States CP, Food Prices DA, Case D
1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR: States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA

**Round 4 vs Sioux Falls Roosevelt CC (Military Roads)**

1NC: T - not military, Predictions K, Advantage CP (Enlistment + Americorps planks), Build America Bonds DA, Fiscal Cliff DA
2NC: Predictions K, Build America Bonds DA, Case D
1NR: T-not military, Advantage CP
2NR: T - not military, Predictions K

**Round 5 vs Fort Osage MW (African Roads)**

1NC: T - In, Cap K, Advantage CP (Restoring America's Future + Antivirals + Ban Hazmat Transportation to Africa planks), Fiscal Cliff DA
2NC: Cap K, Advantage CP, Case D
1NR: T-in (answering "you exclude talks about environmental racism") Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR: Advantage CP, Fiscal Cliff DA

===Blake=== 

**Round 2 vs Eden Prairie (Electric Rail)**

1NC: Predictions K, Kappeler CP, Food Prices DA, Oil DA on case
2NC: Predictions K, Case
1NR: Food Prices DA
2NR: Predictions K

**Round 4 vs Washburn DM (Zizek Aff)**

1NC: Cap K, Kappeler CP, Case (Cap Good/Psychoanalysis Fails)
2NC: Cap K, Kappeler CP
1NR: Case
2NR: Kappeler CP


**Round 5 vs GBX CC (Natives)**

1NC: T-Substantial, Cap K, Kappeler CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NC: Cap K, Kappeler CP
1NR: Case
2NR: Cap K

===IHSSA State=== 

**Round 2 vs IC West (Dredging)**
1NC: T- Maintenance, Cap K, Buy America CP, Dedev, Case D
2NC: Dedev, Case D, Buy America CP
1NR: T - Maintenance
2NR: Dedev

**Round 4 vs Roosevelt CC (Climate Adaption)**
1NC: Predictions K, Buy America CP, Food Prices DA, Case D
2NC: Predictions K, Case
1NR: Food Prices DA
2NR: Predictions K

===Westside=== 
Rishi was with a novice.

**Round 2 vs <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Barstow SH (NIB)</span>**

1NC: Cap K, Tax Cuts on Small Businesses CP, Food Prices DA, Dedev, Competitiveness Bad
2NC: Cap, Dedev, Competitiveness Bad
1NR: Food Prices DA
2NR: Food Prices DA, Dedev, Competitiveness Bad

**Round 6 vs Millard North CM (NIB)**

1NC: Advantage CP (Restoring America's Future, <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Tax Cuts on Small Businesses, Sunshades) Food Prices DA, Dedev, SO2 Good</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">2NC: Dedev, SO2 Screw, Sunshades CP</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">1NR: Food Prices DA</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">2NR: Food Prices DA, Dedev, SO2 Screw</span>

===West NFL Quals=== 

**Round 1 vs Dowling WZ (Alaskan Ports)**

1NC: <span style="line-height: 1.5;">T- In = throughout, Predictions K, Buy America CP, Sacred Cow DA</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR: Buy America DA, Case</span>

===<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Harvard**</span>=== 
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Rishi was with Brody in JV. </span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Round 1 vs** </span>**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Rodgers Heritage CR (Courts - Milliken v. Bradley)</span>**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> </span>
1NC: T - Extra & Effects, Cap K, Congress CP, Sacred Cow DA, Court Legitimacy DA, Hollow Hope DA on case
2NC: Cap K, Congress CP, Sacred Cow DA
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NR: Court Legitimacy DA, Case</span>
2NR: Congress CP, Court Legitimacy DA

**Round 3 vs Bronx Science (<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Climate Adaptation)</span>**

1NC: Nietzsche K, Schwartz & Iron Fertilization CP, Sacred Cow DA, Buy America DA, Food Prices DA
2NC: Buy America DA, Multiplank CP, Case
1NR: Nietzsche, Sacred Cow DA
2NR: CP and Sacred Cow DA

**Round 5 vs St. Pius X OH (Ports)**

1NC: T-maintainence, Nietzsche K, Sacred Cow DA, Buy America DA, Quatar LNG DA, Food Prices DA
2NC: Sacred Cow DA, Food Prices DA, Case
1NR: Quatar DA, T
2NR: Sacred Cow DA, Case

**Octos vs River Hill WR (Mass Transit - Race)**

1NC: Extra-T<span style="line-height: 1.5;">, Cap K, Buy America CP, Sacred Cow DA, Intersectionality DA, SO2 Good DA</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NC: Cap K, Buy America CP, SO2 DA, Buy America DA</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NR: Case, mostly condo good though</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR: Condo good (1ar was five minutes of condo)</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Quarters vs Blake (LNG)**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> </span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NC: T-not </span>maintenance, Cap K, Quatar DA, Sacred Cow DA, Case (baudrillard, no war, dedev, prolif good, trade bad, so2 good)
2NC: Sacred Cow DA, Case (everything but baudrillard)
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NR: T</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR: T</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Semis vs Pace BL (Title XI)**</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> </span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NC: T - loan guarantees, T-vehicles, Predictions K, Adv CP, Sacred Cow DA, Dredging Tradeoff DA, Food Prices DA, Dedev, case </span>
2NC: Dedev, Case, Dredging DA, Adv CP
1NR: Food Prices DA
2NR: Dredging DA, Dedev, Case


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]