[[toc]]
I might also be running anything on Flower Mound JA's page. And if there's something else you're looking for feel free to fb me or email me at mgmitro@live.com
----
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Targeted Killing Aff=== 
I value morality.
Epistemology precludes other justifications for ethics because it justifies how we know things about morality.
Knowledge is only based on the phenomena we experience because perceptual cognition is always present.
UTI 7 (Unification of Thought Institute, “The Essentials of Unification of Thought” UTI, 2007, pp 179-180, online)
According to materialist dialectic, the spirit (consciousness) is a product or function
AND
objective world upon consciousness, that is, as reflections of existing forms.

The goodness of pleasure and badness of pain are qualities all humans experience that relate back to our objective considerations.
Nagel 86 (Thomas Nagel [NYU Philo Prof] “The View from Nowhere” Oxford Press, 1986, pp 156-168, MG)
I shall defend the unsurprising claim that sensory pleasure is good and pain bad,
AND
such cases. There can be no reason to reject the appearances here.

If each person values their own happiness they have to value everybody’s.
Sayre-McCord 1 (Geoffrey, [Graduate degree at University of Pittsburg] “Mill's "Proof" of the Principle of Utility: A More than Half-Hearted Defense,” UNC Press, 2001, pp 21-22, MG)
According to the second argument, the evaluative starting point is again each person thinking
AND
own happiness, or rational nature, as valuable, as an end.

Thus, the standard is maximizing expected well being.
Inherency
Contention 1 is inherency:
Obama deploys targeted killing of terrorist suspects as an alternative to constitutional due process.
Coll 12 (Steve [Staff writer for the New Yorker, president of The New America Foundation] “Kill or Capture,” The New Yorker, August 2, 2012, online, MG)
Even more disturbing is the evidence in Klaidman’s narrative suggesting that the Obama Administration leans
AND
operations, when an American citizen is involved, toward making an arrest?

Plan
Plan Text: The United States ought to end all targeted killing programs by extending to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional 5th amendment due process protections it grants citizens.
I’ll clarify.
Elections
Contention 2 is elections:
Obama and Mitt are dead even in the polls.
Examiner 9-13 (“New Poll: Romney leads Obama as the U.S. economy worsens” The Examiner, 9-13-2012, MG)
The Rasmussen Reports daily Presidential Tracking Poll for Thursday shows Mitt Romney attracting support from 47% of voters nationwide, while President Obama earns 46% of the vote. Three percent (3%) prefer some other candidate, and five percent (5%) are undecided. This is the first time in a week that Romney has held advantage.

Obama loses the November election by bypassing due process.
Sexton 8-6 (John, [Former Reuters reporter] “Obama’s Drone Wars Could Cost him the Election,” China.org.cn, August 6, 2012, online, MG)
But in May the New York Times revealed the existence of a real live death
AND
into Bush-lite, it could hand the White House to Romney.

If Obama loses, we’re in trouble.
Iran Scenario
Scenario [ ] is Iran:
Republican advisers and Romney are serious – they will strike Iran.
Maloney 12 (Suzanne [Sr. Fellow at Saban for Middle East Policy] “How to Contain a Nuclear Iran,” Brookings, March 5, 2012, online, MG)
The Republican determination to blunt Iran’s ambitions through military strikes or regime change should not
AND
decapitate the regime nature, to eliminate the military threat of Iran altogether.”

Strike on Iran goes nuclear World War III.
Engdahl 6 (F. William [Princeton, economist] “A High-Risk Game of Nuclear Chicken,” Asia Times, Jan 31, 2006, online, MG)
The question then is, what will Washington do? The fundamental change in US
AND
administration nor its predecessors have seen fit to inform the American public about.

Pakistan
Contention 3 is Pakistan:
Drone strikes destabilize Pakistani government and increase terrorism.
The Guardian 8-3 (Guardian News Network, “CIA Drone Strikes Violate Pakistan’s Sovereignty, says senior diplomat,” Guardian, Aug 3, 2012, online, MG)
One of Islamabad's most senior diplomats is warning that CIA drone strikes in Pakistan's tribal
AND
have killed 2,500 to 3,000 people," he said.

The brink is now – Pakistan could collapse at any second.
The News International 8-29 (“Karachi Mayhem,” The News International editorial, Aug 29, 2012, online, MG)
Despite the authorities’ claims that violence in Karachi has been controlled, there is not
AND
city to peacefully coexist without spilling each other’s blood on a regular basis.

Pakistan instability leads to nuclear war and terrorism.
Morgan 7 (Stephen [Political psychologist, former member of British Labour Party Executive Committee] “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” Electronic Articles, 2007, online, MG)
Fundamentalism is deeply rooted in Pakistan society. The fact that in the year following
AND
in a new Cold War with China and Russia pitted against the US.

Indo-Pak war means extinction.
Fai 1 (Dr. Ghulam [PhD Communications, Director of Kashmiri American Council] “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” Washington Times, July 8, 2001, online, MG)
The foreign policy of the United States in South Asia should move from the lackadaisical
AND
an inclination to ratify an impending Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.


Solvency
Contention 4 is Solvency:
Popular support is for due process for non-citizen terrorist suspects.
WPO 6 (World Public Opinion, “Americans Support Full Due Process Rights for Terrorist Suspects,” WPO, July 17, 2006, online, MG)
Americans, whether Republican or Democrat, show high levels of support for giving detainees
AND
was supported by 67 percent of Democrats but only 50 percent of Republicans.

Due process is mutually exclusive with targeted killing programs.
L.A. Times 12 (“When the government kills” L.A. Times Editorial, July 29, 2012, online, MG)
Allowing the president of the United States to act as judge, jury and executioner
AND
in 2010 to persuade a court to enjoin the government from killing him.)

Underview
Underview – Moral uncertainty triggers existential risk calculus.
Bostrom 11 (Nick, [Professor of Philosophy], “Existential Risk as the most Important Task for Humanity,” Oxford Press, 2011. Online. MG)
There will be some types of putative existential risks for which the main uncertainty is
AND
of our choice, to be the most desirable of all possible futures.

===Deleuze Aff=== 

Framework
A. Ontology – Being and thought go hand in hand. Being is the organic part of life in which we are all a part of univocal difference. We exist in the virtual as we always have a past and a future. Here we make our expressions that are only based on the actual. To open life in this way we must think in the moment – this takes away those pesky utilitarian and deontological modes of thinking.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bergen 6 </span>(Veronique [PhD Philosophy University of Paris 8] “The Precariousness of Being and Thought in the Philosophies of Gilles Deleuze and Alain Badiou” Edinburgh University Press, 2006, pp 62-63, MG)
Deleuze establishes a kind of continuity between being and thought such that, in their
AND
the way it essentialises being, it spoils the perception of the transcendental.

B. Thought – Thought is always recreating itself as it interacts with chaos.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bergen 2 </span>(Veronique [PhD Philosophy University of Paris 8] “The Precariousness of Being and Thought in the Philosophies of Gilles Deleuze and Alain Badiou” Edinburgh University Press, 2006, pp 63, MG)
As far as ideational genesis is concerned, the Deleuzian image of thought, being
AND
, to the extent that it is never conquered once and for all.

C. Ethics – This nomad thought means the legislating subject must always leave ethics open to new normative postulates.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Massumi 92 </span>(Brian, [PhD Yale French Literature, Professor at University of McGill], “A User’s Guide to Capitalism and Schizophrenia,” MIT Press, 1992, Print. MG)
“Nomad thought” does not lodge itself in the edifice of an ordered interiority
AND
, as opposed to the logos of entrenching oneself in a closed space.

D. Repression – We must free ourselves from repression if we are ever to experience value at all. This is the necessary to open the mind for nomadic thought.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jun </span>(Nathan. [PhD Philosophy Midwestern University] “Deleuze and Ethics.” University of Edinberg Press, 2011. 105. PDF. MG)
The process of creating value therefore requires an eternal revolution against the forces of repression
AND
to secure such a means which necessitates an ongoing commitment to ethical life.

The debate thus comes down to whoever has the best methodology for opening thought for re-legislating.

Wonder
Contention 1 is wonder:
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">A. Don’t make the resolution a mere phantasm. I encounter the resolution with wonder. Affirming the resolution is a program of life, an experiment in reversing what we may have thought.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze 77 </span>(Gilles [Prof at Versailles] “Dialogues” Claire Parnet, Freelance Journalist, Print, MG)
Your secret can always be seen on your face and in your eyes. Lose
AND
or American literature is a process of experimentation. They have killed interpretation.

B. Negating leaves thought unprovoked. They make time a totalizing concept and force us into continuity.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foucault 69 </span>(Michele [French philosopher] “Archaeology of Truth” Editions Gallimard, 1969, pp 13, MG)
There is a reason for this. If the history of thought could remain the
AND
in terms of totalization and revolutions are never more than moments of consciousness.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Security</span>
Contention 2 is security:
A. The impossible desire for security from the unknown traps us into ressentiment and violence as we try to preserve a false rationality. This means securitizing against the resolution closes thought.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Der Derian 98 </span>(James [Professor of Polisci at UMass], “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, Baudrillard” Mass Press, 1998, online, MG)
The will to power, then, should not be confused with a Hobbesian perpetual
AND
powerful spirits, to accord the tribe new advantages and new strength. [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note42|42]]

B. The citizen/non-citizen dichotomy is the root cause of security. The resolution is an affirmation that removes the ultimate security condition.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Der Derian 2 </span>(James [Professor of Polisci at UMass], “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, Baudrillard” Mass Press, 1998, online, MG)
The ancestors of the most powerful tribes are bound eventually to grow to monstrous dimensions
AND
own dignity and solemnity, our own fearsomeness , not also diminished?47

Inquiry
Contention 3 is the inquiry:
Typical switch-side debate is a rigged game that creates a disinterested empirical inquiry that encourages debaters to separate from the world and participate in dehumanizing ontology as they demand answers. Voting aff means voting for an open inquiry rather than a gaze from above. This means we give the option to the accused terrorist, we ask them what they want.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Spanos and Spurlock 11 </span>(William and Chris [Professor at Bingham/College Debate Judge] “An Interested Debate Inquiry” kdebate.com, 2011, MG)
CS: When we had our discussion in Binghamton, you asked me if teams
AND
finality -and victory. They invariably turn out to be murderous brutes.

===Gitmo Aff=== 
Framework
I value morality.
Governments are unique from individuals when it comes to morality.
First, because of their epistemic choices, governments have to be utilitarian.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shaw 99 </span>(William [Philo Prof at SJSU] “Contemporary ethics: taking account of utilitarianism” Wiley, 1999, pp 171-172, MG)
Utilitarianism ties right and wrong to the promotion of well-being, but it
AND
public officials from violating the rights of individuals as a matter of policy.

Second, even if governments have side constraints, there’s no act-omission distinction for them.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sunstein and Vermule 5</span> (Cass [Prof of law at Harvard] and Adrian [Prof of law at Harvard] “Is capital punishment morally required? The relevance of life-life tradeoffs” Chicago Public Law and Legal Theory, 2005, MG)
In our view, any effort to distinguish between acts and omissions goes wrong by
AND
a set of policy instruments that do not adequately or fully discourage it.

Third, governments have to protect future generations.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Murray 97 </span>(Alastaire [Prof of politics at University of Wales] “Reconstructing Realism” Edinburgh University Press, 1997, MG)
Weber emphasised that, while the 'absolute ethic of the gospel' must be taken seriously
AND
action affecting others, and hence political action par excellence, is subject.

Thus the standard is maximizing expected well being.


Hegemony
Contention 1 is hegemony:
I’ll isolate 3 scenarios for hegemonic collapse:
Courts Legitimacy
First internal link is courts legitimacy.
Courts are delegitimized by failing to secure procedural protections for detainees.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wittes 08 </span>(Benjamin [Fellow in Governance Studies at Brookings Institute] “Improving Detainee Policy: Handling Terrorism Detainees within the American Justice System” Brookings, June 4, 2008, MG)
It is difficult to overstate the scope and magnitude of our political system’s collective failure
AND
detention, other than to emphasize the fact of their own habeas jurisdiction.

U.S. courts are modeled globally.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ghoshray 6 </span>(Saby [VP of development and compliance for World Compliance] “To Understand Foreign Court Citation: Dissecting Originalism, Dynamism, Romanticism, and Consequentialism” Albany Law Review, 2006, MG)
Justice Breyer's identification of common legal problems across the world sits at the core of
AND
the impartial world, maybe the best guide that can be followed. 164

Court legitimacy key to heg – extending due process protections solves.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kmiec 1 </span>(Dean [columnist for Miami Herald] “Captured terrorists could be tried before special military tribunal” Miami Herald, October 28, 2001, MG)
"Even if it's legal, how would it [bypassing due process] be
AND
of law, which is really at the base of our world leadership."

Courts military legitimacy stops nuclear extinction.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kellman 89 </span>(Barry [Prof of Law at DePaul] “Judicial Abdication of Military Tort Accountability: But who is the guard who guards themselves” Duke Law Review, 1989, MG)
In this era of thermonuclear weapons, America must uphold its historical commitment to be
AND
recognizable in a millennium ushered in under the mushroom cloud of thermonuclear holocaust.

Soft Power
Second internal link is soft power.
Guantanamo due process violations undermine soft power.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Van Veeran 12 </span>(Elspeth [Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Int’l Relations at Sussex] “Guantanamo ten years on: necessity or troublesome legacy?” University of Sussex, Jan 10, 2012, MG)
Q What is Guantanamo’s global political significance? Dr Van Veeren: Guantánamo has been
AND
remains a measure of Obama’s success (or failure) as a President.

Soft power needs raising now – China is gaining the edge.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Beinart 12 </span>(Peter [Senior Fellow at New America foundation] “How the financial crisis has undermined U.S. power” Time, June 21, 2012, MG)
When the White House announced its National Security Strategy last month, it titled it
AND
hard choices" that come from trying to pare down America's commitments overseas.

Soft power key to heg.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fraser 3 </span>(Matthew [Doctorate from University of Paris, Political Science] “Weapons of Mass Distraction: Soft Power and American Empire” Thomas Dunne Books, 2003, MG)
The central thesis in the pages that follow may seem outlandish, controversial, and
AND
demonstrated that America's soft-power arsenal contains awesome weapons of mass distraction.

Spending
Third internal link is Department of Defense spending.
Guantanamo bay is the most expensive prison on Earth – destroys the DoD budget.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rosenberg 11 </span>(Carol [Reporter for Miami Herald] “Guantanamo: The most expensive prison on earth” Miami Herald, Nov 25, 2011, MG)
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVY BASE, Cuba -- Guards get combat pay, just like troops
AND
Panetta and other Cabinet members wrote Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and others.

Defense spending cuts hollow out the military – cuts modernization and nuclear deterrence.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Carafano 8 </span>(James [research fellow for National Security at Heritage] “Preparing the military for defeat” Modesto Bee, Aug 26, 2008, MG)
After the Vietnam War, respect for the military sank to an all-time
AND
to keep the nation safe, free and prosperous in the 21st century.

Nuclear primacy key to heg and prevents nuclear escalation.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieber and Press 7 </span>(Keir and Deryl [Assistant Prof political science Notre Dame, Prof of government at Dartmouth] “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the future of Chinese Deterrent” China Security, winter 2007, MG)
Third, the growth of U.S. nuclear counterforce capabilities may give U
AND
sideline and keep their conflicts with the United States at the conventional level.

Impact
Next is the impact.
Loss of American heg means global nuclear conflagration.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kagan 12 </span>(Robert [senior fellow for Carnegie Endowment] “Not Fade Away” The New Republic, Jan 11, 2012, online, MG)
This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary goal
AND
a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.

Plan Text
Plan Text: The United States ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same due process protections it grants citizens by transferring and trying Guantanamo Bay detainees in Article III federal courts.

Solvency
Contention 2 is solvency:
Trying terrorists in federal courts restores legitimacy, reduces DoD spending, and gains international support.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Montalvo 10 </span>(Eric [Partner at Puckett and Faraj] “US can restore legitimacy with federal trials of terror suspects at Guantanamo Bay” The Jurist, Feb 26, 2010, MG)
The legitimacy of federal courts compared to other prevailing options is truly without question.
AND
Guantanamo Bay from a symbol of shame to an example of Constitutional perseverance."

Underview
Underview – Moral uncertainty triggers existential risk calculus.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bostrom 11</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Nick, [Professor of Philosophy], “Existential Risk as the most Important Task for Humanity,” Oxford Press, 2011. Online. MG)</span>
There will be some types of putative existential risks for which the main uncertainty is
AND
of our choice, to be the most desirable of all possible futures.
==Negative== 
===**Freedom CP**=== 
A. Plan text: The “United States” ought to not prosecute capture, or keep detained non-citizens accused of terrorism.
B. Competition: Constitutional due process is mutually exclusive because it requires the prosecution of suspects in a trial.
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">C. Solvency: (differs depending on the round)</span>
D. Net benefits: (differs depending on the round)

===Heg DA=== 
Uniqueness
A. Uniqueness – Heg high now.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kagan 12</span> (Robert [senior fellow for Carnegie Endowment] “Not Fade Away” The New Republic, Jan 11, 2012, online, MG)
The answer is no. Let’s start with the basic indicators. In economic terms
AND
no longer be the case, but that moment has not yet arrived.

Link
B. Links –
1. Due process is mutually exclusive with targeted killing programs.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">L.A. Times 12</span> (“When the government kills” L.A. Times Editorial, July 29, 2012, online, MG)
Allowing the president of the United States to act as judge, jury and executioner
AND
in 2010 to persuade a court to enjoin the government from killing him.)

2. Drones strikes are key to US heg.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Shafi 12</span> (Jonathon [Analyst for Counterfire.com, member of SWP] “The drone wars and US strategy,” counterfire.com, July 26, 2012, online, MG)
The US is faced with a number of serious threats to its imperial orbit.
AND
they are part of an overarching narrative of re-affirming US hegemony.

Impact
C. Impact – Loss of American heg means global nuclear conflagration.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kagan 12</span> (Robert [senior fellow for Carnegie Endowment] “Not Fade Away” The New Republic, Jan 11, 2012, online, MG)
This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary goal
AND
a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.

===K's=== 
Death K
Natural death puts a cap on life as we try to determine the limits of life. The law’s due process is a diabolical way of making death an obligation – destroys the value to life and turns case.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Baudrillard 76</span> (Jean [Former European Graduate School Prof.] “Symbolic Exchange and Death” Sage Publications, 1976, pp 167-168, MG)
An ideal or standard form of death, 'natural' death , corresponds to the biological
AND
) in order to adjust it to democracy and the law of equivalences.

Bataille K
All action mutilates the totality of our existence, subordinating life to fragmentary goals. The only way to overcome such oppression is to stop our march against the clock – dissolve into the moment, desire to burn with desire, laugh to death, look beyond good and evil!
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bataille 45</span> (Georges [French intellectual] “On Nietzsche” Pantheon Books, 1945, pp xxiii-xxv, Google books, MG)
Nonetheless, I don’t want my inclination to make fun of myself or act comic
AND
pleasure, holiness, or death. Entirety lacks further tasks to fulfill.)

State K
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">T</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">he state does not exist – they use their speech time to invest their desires into the despotism of the State. I don’t believe in such antics.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Doty 3</span> (Roxanne [ASU Prof. of Politics] “Anti-Immigrantism in Western Democracies: Statecraft, desire, and the politics of exclusion” Routlege Studies on IR, 2003, print, MG)
While born of deterritorializing practices, “the state” itself is highly territorial.
AND
the subsequent forms that cause it to return under other guises and conditions.”

Ontology-Spec
Ontological uncertainty paralyzes policy making and ethics.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dillon 99 </span>(Michael [Prof. at Lancaster] “Moral Spaces,” University of Minnesota Press, 1999, pp 97-99, MG)
With ontology at issue, the entire foundations or underpinnings of any mode of thought
AND
constitutional order of political modernity, has begun to come under sustained scrutiny.

===Israel DA=== 
A. Uniqueness: U.S.-Israeli relations high now – security support key.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cook 10-3 </span>(Steven [Senior Fellow on Middle Eastern Studies at CFR] “The US-Israeli Relationship: What’s love got to do with it” Council on Foreign Relations, Oct 3, 2012, MG)
Still, I am not sure what all the fuss is about. In a
AND
along, the two countries do. That’s a good thing, no?

B. Links:
Fighting a war requires the violation of due process protections – means withdrawal of troops from warzones.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kane 10</span> (Brian, “Does the Constitution and Bill of Rights Apply to Non-Citizens or just Citizens”, Crimson Politics, Jan 25 2010, JS)
If everyone is granted rights under the Bill of Rights, then the US has
AND
wages is against the Constitution because enemy combatants did not receive due process.

Military efforts in the Middle East key to US-Israeli relations.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gilboa and Inbar 8 </span>(Eytan and Efraim [Prof of Political Science at Bar-llan/PhD at UChicago] “US-Israeli Relations in a New Era: Issues and Challenges after 9/11” Taylor and Francis, 2008, MG)
With the advent of the twenty-first century, Israel is one of the
AND
to Washington, leaving Israel as the only true staunch and permanent ally.

C. Internal link: US-Israel relations key to Middle East stability.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kramer 6 </span>(Martin [fellow at The Washington Institute] “The American Interest,” Washington Institute, Fall 2006, MG)
My answer, to anticipate my conclusion, is this: United States support for
AND
great reserves of oil out of the grip of the West’s sworn enemies.

D. Impact: Collapse of Israeli security from strikes means nuclear world war.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Moore 9 </span>(Carol [Political Science, Wayne State] “Six Escalation Scenarios to Nuclear World War III, carolmoore.net, Feb 16, 2009, MG)
Israel is especially dangerous because its leaders and supporters have made clear for years that
AND
strikes cannot stop it. Only a worldwide disarmament movement can stop it.

(Other link that I didn’t read in round)
Shift away from War on Terror destroys relations.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gilboa and Inbar 2 </span>(Eytan and Efraim [Prof of Political Science at Bar-llan/PhD at UChicago] “US-Israeli Relations in a New Era: Issues and Challenges after 9/11” Taylor and Francis, 2008, MG)
Nevertheless, the abandonment of the ‘War on Terror’ paradigm in its foreign policy
AND
compromise its national security, at least for a limited amount of time.

===Mali DA=== 
A. Uniqueness – The US would support a military intervention in Mali.
Allison 10/17/12 (Simon Allison, [Writer for Guardian Africa Network], “Military intervention in Mali: a dangerous idea with too much support”, Guardian, October 17, 2012, Web, SA)
International support for a military intervention in <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/mali|Mali]]</span> is gathering momentum quicker than the Harmattan
AND
Security Council suggests Mali should get ready for an influx of foreign soldiers.

More military is needed.
Larson 10/14/12 (Krista Larson, [Writer for the Associated Press on Africa], “Talk of N. Mali Intervention Grows, No Action Soon”, Associated Press, October 14, 2012, Web, SA)
"This is not only a humanitarian crisis; it is a powder keg that
AND
hold the France-sized area of desert now controlled by the militants.

B. Links
Fighting a war requires the violation of due process protections – means withdrawal of troops from warzones.
Kane 10 (Brian, “Does the Constitution and Bill of Rights Apply to Non-Citizens or just Citizens”, Crimson Politics, Jan 25 2010, JS)
If everyone is granted rights under the Bill of Rights, then the US has
AND
wages is against the Constitution because enemy combatants did not receive due process.

C. Internal Link – The Brink is now! Inaction leads to increased international terrorism and local death.
Ewi 10/5/12 (Martin Ewi, [Senior Researcher Transnational Threats and International Crime], “World Leaders Divided as Terrorists Devour Mali”, In Depth Africa, October 5, 2012, Web, SA)
It is evident that Mali on its own cannot eliminate the Islamist challenge and regain
AND
In all these scenarios, casualties and the humanitarian impact will be heavy.

D. Impact – Nuclear terrorism exists and leads to mass death, suffering, and nuclear war.
Chesney 97 (Robert, [Charles I. Francis professor of law at the University of Texas School of Law] “National Insecurity: Nuclear Material Availability and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism,” Loyola of Los Angeles International and Comparative Law review, November 1, 1997, online, AZ)
The horrible truth is that the threat of nuclear terrorism is real, in light

===Gitmo CP=== 
A. Counterplan-text: The United States ought to extend to noncitizens accused of terrorism who have been detained in Guantanamo Bay the same constitutional due process protections it grants citizens by using a Guantanamo Bay tailored federal court.
B. Competition:
1. It’s mutual exclusive, the aff defends giving all terrorists due process which is incompatible with only giving it to Guantanamo Bay detainees.
2. I compete net beneficially.
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">C. Solvency: (differs depending on the round)</span>
D. Net benefits: (differs depending on the round)

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Obama Aff=== 
I value morality.
The standard is maximizing expected well being. Here’s why:
Epistemology precludes other justifications for ethics because it justifies how we know things about morality.
Knowledge is only based on the phenomena we experience since perceptual cognition is always present.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">UTI 7 </span>(Unification of Thought Institute, “The Essentials of Unification of Thought” UTI, 2007, pp 179-180, online)
According to materialist dialectic, the spirit (consciousness) is a product or function
AND
objective world upon consciousness, that is, as reflections of existing forms.

The goodness of pleasure and badness of pain are qualities all humans experience that relate back to our objective considerations.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nagel 86 </span>(Thomas Nagel [NYU Philo Prof] “The View from Nowhere” Oxford Press, 1986, pp 156-168, MG)
I shall defend the unsurprising claim that sensory pleasure is good and pain bad,
AND
such cases. There can be no reason to reject the appearances here.

If each person values their own happiness they have to value everybody’s.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sayre-McCord 1 </span>(Geoffrey, [Graduate degree at University of Pittsburg] “Mill's "Proof" of the Principle of Utility: A More than Half-Hearted Defense,” UNC Press, 2001, pp 21-22, MG)
According to the second argument, the evaluative starting point is again each person thinking
AND
own happiness, or rational nature, as valuable, as an end.

And 3 more things about util:
1. Even respect for the rationality of persons mandates consequentialism.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cummiskey 96</span>(David, [Bates Professor of Philosophy) “Kantian Consequentialism,” Oxford University Press, 1996. (p.142). MG)
If I sacrifice some for the sake of others, I do not use them
AND
, then equal consideration dictates that one may sacrifice some to save many.

2. All other ethical theories collapse to consequentialism.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pettit 99 </span>(Philip [Prof of Politics and Human Values at Princeton] “The Cost of Non-consequentialism” University of Montreal, Feb 5, 1999, MG)
The upshot is that if as a non-consequentialist theorist I straightforwardly universalise the
AND
in which conformity to pattern P is the ultimate value to be promoted.

3. Government actors uniquely have to be utilitarian.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shaw 99 </span>(William [Philo Prof at SJSU] “Contemporary ethics: taking account of utilitarianism” Wiley, 1999, pp 171-172, MG)
Utilitarianism ties right and wrong to the promotion of well-being, but it
AND
public officials from violating the rights of individuals as a matter of policy.


Economy
Contention 1 is the economy.
Two scenarios for economic collapse:
Scenario 1 is the fiscal cliff – the brink of is now.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">David 11-12 </span>(Javier [Financial Section Editor CNBC] “Forget the Mayans: Be Afraid of US Budget Armageddon” CNBC, Nov 12, 2012, MG)
Mayan end times prophesies aside, it's Washington's effort to balance its books that might
AND
doesn't do it, a surge in taxes and spending cuts just might.

Scenario 2 is states’ economies – they are vital to the national economy and need change NOW.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Funkhouser 12 </span>(Mark [director of the Governing Institute, PhD expert on auditing] “Why the State Budget Crisis is Real” Governing Institute, Aug 13, 2012, MG)
So which is it, no biggie or major crisis? And does it matter
AND
the can down the road" — hinder fiscal stability and mask imbalances.


Economic collapse means multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict – extinction.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 </span>(Aaron [Prof of Politics and IR at Princeton], Gabriel [senior editor for commentary at WSJ] “The Dangers of a Diminished America” Wall Street Journal, 2008, MG)
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture
AND
of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.

Plan Text
Plan Text: The United State federal government should implement the Affordable Care Act. I’ll clarify.
Solvency
Contention 2 is solvency.
Squo politics are holding back the ACA.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alonso-Zaldivar 11-14 </span>(Ricardo [AP reporter] “Obama’s health care overhaul turns into a sprint” Akron Legal News, Nov 14, 2012, MG)
Its place assured alongside Medicare and Medicaid, President Barack Obama's health care law is
AND
positive trajectory." Hyman oversees efforts to help states carry out the law.

The plan solves in 3 ways:
1. The ACA demolishes the budget deficit.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Carrol 12 </span>(Aaron [Director of the Center for Health Care Policy and Professionalism Research] “Take another look at health care act” CNN, July 19, 2012, MG)
Right off the bat, we need to remember that the Affordable Care Act makes
AND
Parts of the act save money. Overall, it is deficit reducing.

2. The states fail without federal help from the ACA.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gansler 12 </span>(Douglas [Attorney General of Maryland] “Affordable Care Act: A national solution to a national problem” The Baltimore Sun, June 18, 2012, MG)
Now states are facing one of their toughest economic challenges yet: the soaring cost
AND
the health care needs of its citizens and expand coverage to the uninsured.


3. The ACA will increase economic activity and mobility for consumers. And, all ACA taxes are benign.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gruber 12 </span>(Jonathan [Professor of Economics at MIT, Consultant on drafting of the ACA] “Will the Affordable Care Act Kill Jobs?” The New Republic, July 9, 2012, MG)
By now, most people who follow politics know that the [ACA] law
AND
to pursue the job opportunities where they can be most productive and happiest.

Next, the ACA solves for hospitals, stocks, and biotech innovation.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lichtenfeld 12 </span>(Martin [Senior Analyst at Investment U] “The Real Winners of Obamacare” Investment U, July 5, 2012, MG)
I expect the biggest winners [are] to be hospitals, because of the
AND
will impact top and bottom lines of these companies for years to come.

Finally, the ACA stops the biopolitical regime of hope.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ely and Buchanan </span>(Michael [college policy coach at UTSA] and Ian [leading Deluzian editor of Drain magazine] “The Suicidal State and the State” kdebate.com, 2012, MG)
ME: With that question in mind, you wrote an essay in Drain Magazine
AND
things are. So I think we need more anger not more hope.
==Negative== 
===Fiscal Cliff DA=== 
A. Uniqueness: Fiscal cliff compromise coming now, but GOP support key.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Davis and Dorning 12 </span>(Julie and Mike [reporters for Bloomberg] “Obama Success on Fiscal Cliff May Hinge on Congress Ties” Bloomberg, Nov 7, 2012, MG)
His chances of success, say Republicans and Democrats, depend on Obama’s willingness in
AND

and interacting will help[s] you do that,” Griffin said.

B. Link: GOP hates health spending, particularly on universal health care programs.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Culp 12 </span>(Terry Culp-Ressler [American University; Editorial Assistant] “House Majority Leader Insists on Keeping Obamacare Spending Cuts on the Table” thinkprogress.com, Nov 8, 2012, MG)
Now that President Obama has secured reelection, his landmark health care reform law is
AND
whether they are sustainable and whether they actually bend down the cost curve.

C. Internal link: Fiscal cliff collapses economy.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">David 11-12 </span>(Javier [Financial Section Editor CNBC] “Forget the Mayans: Be Afraid of US Budget Armageddon” CNBC, Nov 12, 2012, MG)
Mayan end times prophesies aside, it's Washington's effort to balance its books that might
AND
doesn't do it, a surge in taxes and spending cuts just might.

D. Impact: Economic collapse means multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict, extinction.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 </span>(Aaron [Prof of Politics and IR at Princeton], Gabriel [senior editor for commentary at WSJ] “The Dangers of a Diminished America” Wall Street Journal, 2008, MG)
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture
AND
of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.

===Bond-Markets DA=== 
A. Uniqueness: The U.S. bond market is okay now, but more spending could spell economic collapse – err neg on an invisible threshold.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Samuelson 11 </span>(Robert [BA from Harvard, political analyst for the Washington Times] “The Eclipse of Keynesian Economics Proceeds” Real Clear Markets, Dec 19, 2011, MG)
The eclipse of Keynesian economics proceeds. When Keynes wrote "The General Theory of
AND
risen to hazardous levels, undermining Keynesian economics as taught in standard texts.

B. Link: Universal Health Care spending destroys perception and rates in the U.S. bond market.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Economics21 10 </span>([Non-profit think tank on 21st century economic policy] “The Health Care Bill and the Bond Markets” economics21.org, Mar 31, 2010, MG)
Five days after President Obama signed the Senate health care bill into law, a
AND
enact into law a bill with explosive expenditures and highly contingent cost savings.

C. Impact: Economic collapse means multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict, extinction.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 </span>(Aaron [Prof of Politics and IR at Princeton], Gabriel [senior editor for commentary at WSJ] “The Dangers of a Diminished America” Wall Street Journal, 2008, MG)
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture
AND
of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.

===Single-Payer CP=== 
A. Text: The fifty states and all relevant territories should implement a single-payer system with one insurance fund that covers everyone with a standard benefit package, paying uniform rates to all providers through a single payment mechanism and claims-processing system.

B. Competition:
1. Mutually exclusive – the federal government would control the insurance fund on the aff side of things.
2. I compete on net benefits.

C. Solvency:
The most comprehensive modeling of health care finds this to be the best way to cut costs and insure everyone.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hsiao 11 </span>(William [PhD Harvard School of Public Health] “State-Based Single-Payer Health Care – A Solution for the United States” New England Journal of Medicine, Mar 31, 2011, MG)
We found that the system capable of producing the greatest potential savings and achieving universal
AND
. The Vermont single-payer plan certainly can [waive the ACA].

D. Net Benefits:
Changes depending on the round

===Affect K=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">What is healthy about health? They make an ontological assumption of the body-with-organs which leads to encapsulated destruction of the value to life.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fox 11 </span>(Nick [Prof of Philosophy at Sheffield] “The Ill-Health Assemblage: Beyond the Body-with-Organs” White Rose Research Online, 2011, MG)
The body-with-organs offers a model of the body [is]
AND
to transcendence, but to death (Deleuze and Guattari 1988: 149).

The alternative is to reject the affirmative construction of health and to embrace an alternative ontology of flux, fighting inch by inch against the territorialization of the body – research methodology is key.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fox 2 </span>(Nick [Prof of Philosophy at Sheffield] “The Ill-Health Assemblage: Beyond the Body-with-Organs” White Rose Research Online, 2011, MG)
Deleuze and Guattari strongly rejected the territorialisation of the BwO into the organism, arguing
AND
professions, social and political scientists, social activists, indeed between everybody.

The role of the ballot is to vote for the better methodology for debating health care. We shouldn’t close debate to a crippling image of structured curriculum, the debate should be open to discussions of methodology that allow for experimentation.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wallin 10 </span>(Jason [Assistant Prof of Media at Alberta] “A Deleuzian Approach to Curriculum: Essays on a pedagogical life” Palgrave MacMillan, 2010, MG)
While the concept of currere opens the course of life to active creation, this
AND
an image that Western education has mistakenly taken as an a priori reality.

Your ballot has political value – every representation we make can reformulate power.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Colebrook 2 </span>(Claire [Prof of English at Park PA] “Understanding Deleuze” 2002, MG)
Human freedom became the problem. If human beings are free, does this mean
AND
itself political; it produces relations, effects, and organises our bodies.
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]