[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

questions? email ppranavv5@gmail.com!

==Wake Forest== 
===Warming adv=== 

Consensus there is rapid anthropogenic warming now – numerous and best studies prove
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Environmental Defense Fund 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (a US-based nonprofit environmental advocacy group, “Global Warming Myths and Facts,” 1/13/2009, http://mrgreenbiz.wordpress.com/2009/01/13/global-warming-myths-and-facts-2/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There is </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">no</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> ... </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">future climatic change.</span>



Our models are accurate – most recent studies prove
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Muller 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Richard A. Muller, professor of physics at UCBerkeley, head of the UCBerkeley Earth Surface Temperature Project, “The Case Against Global-Warming Skepticism”, 8/21/11, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204422404576594872796327348.html]]</span>, DKreus)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Are you a ..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the climate debate.</span>



Warming causes extinction -- scientific consensus it’s real and anthropogenic.
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Morgan ’09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]</span>
As horrifying as ... chances of survival?


1. Carbon sequestration k2 solve global warming
**Science Daily 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- news website for science articles “Carbon Capture And Storage To Combat Global Warming Examined” , [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/06/070611153957.htm]], LZ)</span>
Carbon capture and ... crucial, Benson said.


Carbon is the largest contributor to warming
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hezir and Kenderdine 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *MS in Public Policy, **Executive Director @ MIT Energy**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joe and Melanie, Federal Research Management for Carbon Mitigation for Existing Coal Plants, [[http://web.mit.edu/mitei/docs/reports/hezir-kenderdine.pdf]]</span>**
**There are currently ... for every $1 per**





**2. CCS is a //__critical bridge__// to a broader portfolio of sustainable energy**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forbes et al 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior associate at the World Resources Institute, former member of the National Energy Technology Laboratory</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sarah, CCS Guidelines: Guidelines for Carbon Dioxide Capture, Transport, and Storage, World Resources Institute, http://pdf.wri.org/ccs_guidelines.pdf</span>**
**Scenarios for stabilizing ... sustainable energy future.**




**3. Carbon pipelines key to energy leadership**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EPA 10</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Report of the Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage,” http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/downloads/CCS-Task-Force-Report-2010.pdf</span>**
**CCS can play ... are in place.**




**That’s independently gets China and India on board**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Shepard ’11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Don, Natural Resources/Water Resources University Laboratory Teacher & Former Financial Representative and Army National Guard Accountant, Article updated 5/22/11 – originally written in 2010, "U.S. Environmental Policy and Leadership," http://www.brighthub.com/environment/science-environmental/articles/39623.aspx. RG)</span>**
**The Bush administration’s ... from our lawmakers.**



**Positive feedbacks drive irreversible tipping points—only aff solvency claims are true—all their authors are media hype**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Foster, 10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John B., Professor of Sociology at the University of Oregon, December 2010, “Notes from the Editors”, http://www.monthlyreview.org/nfte101201.php,</span>**
*Citing James Hansen—Director of NASA’s Institue for Space Studies and Leading U.S. Climatologist)
On October 16, MR ... of the climate.




===Hegemony=== 

DOD involvement in the industry creates standards
**DLA 03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Defense Logistics Agency, DOD Transportation Engineering Program, “Transportation and Travel”, 18 July 2003, http://doni.daps.dla.mil/Directives/11000%20Facilities%20and%20Land%20Management%20Ashore/11-200%20Transportation%20Facilities,%20Heavy%20Equipment/11210.2.pdf)</span>

This revision-o Implements ... equipment, and facilities.




Standards in the industry are key to technological leadership
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">API 04</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (American Petroleum Institute, “The Oil And Natural Gas Industry’s Most Valuable Resource”, 2004, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.api.org/standards/faq/upload/valueofstandards.pdf]]</span>, PS)</span>

Imagine if every nut ... anything but standard.





Tech decline directly facilitates the emergence of hostile global rivals

<span class="Author-Date">Snead, ’07</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Mike Snead, Aerospace engineer and consultant focusing on Near-future space infrastructure development ,6/3/2007, “How America Can and Why America Must Now Become a True Spacefaring Nation,” Spacefaring America Blog, , http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx, DKreus)</span>

Great power status ... administration should exercise.



CCS is Key to U.S.-China Relations – Boosts Cooperation, Reduces Energy Wars
Richardson ‘06
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, visiting senior research fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies, The Straight Times 8-16-06 “Moving from oil to coal; China and the US can work together to convert coal into liquid fuel,” LexisNexis Academic) </span>

The huge costs ... out of poverty.




US-Sino Relations k2 prosperity and peaceful development worldwide
**Hills 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Former US trade representative – 2007 (Carla A., The International Herald Tribune, “Engaging the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">New China; Power Diplomacy” April 27, 2007 LexisNexis)</span>

The relationship between ... of China's future





Prioritizing carbon infrastructure begins the shift to natural gas
**Frank et al 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - research associate in the CSIS Energy and National Security Program</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Matthew, “Crossing the Natural Gas Bridge,” CSIS, http://csis.org/files/attachments/090624_Crossing_Bridge.pdf</span>

Aggressive action on ... energy R&D spending.



That’s modeled internationally
**MIT 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Interdisciplinary Study, The Future of Coal, http://web.mit.edu/coal/)</span>

According to Dr. ... be greatly enhanced.



And, the pursuit of hegemony is inevitable—the only question is __effectiveness__.
<span class="Author-Date">Ferguson ’09</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Niall, American Interest, http://www.the-american-interest.com/ai2/article.cfm?Id=335&MId=16)</span>

Where Posen is ... distant and stingy!”



Overall, US leadership is crucial to global peace and preventing multiple nuclear wars
<span class="Author-Date">Kagan ’11</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(The Price of Power The benefits of U.S. defense spending far outweigh the costs Jan 24, 2011, Vol. 16, No. 18 • By ROBERT KAGAN Robert Kagan is a contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. </span>


Today the international ... will not fall over.




And, unipolarity creates __structural disincentives__ for war—__theoretical__ and __empirical__ evidence.
<span class="Author-Date">Wohlforth ’09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— William C. Wohlforth, Daniel Webster Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, holds an M.Phil. and Ph.D. in Political Science from Yale University, 2009 (“Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, January, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project MUSE, p. 29-31)</span>

The upshot is ... the theory’s expectations.



===Solvency=== 

Carbon regulation is coming and CCS technology is advancing – facilitating regulated transportation infrastructure is key to jump-starting the commercial industry
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zarraby 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis</span>

Rising food prices, ... CO<2> pipelines. 17



The //__entire project__// depends on a national network for pipeline infrastructure
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IRGC 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International Risk Governance Council, “Regulation of Carbon Capture and Storage,” http://www.irgc.org/IMG/pdf/Policy_Brief_CCS.pdf</span>

Large-scale CCS ... the CCS industry.



The federal government is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Horne 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – JD @ U of Utah</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jennifer, “Getting from Here to There: Devising an Optimal Regulatory Model for CO<2> Transport in a New Carbon Capture and Sequestration Industry,” 30 J. Land Resources & Envtl. L. 357, Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Siting regulations affect ...</span> far more workable.



Large-scale pipeline construction is plausible
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Dooley et al. 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior staff scientist with the Joint Global Change Research Institute at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (J.J., leads the Joint Global Change Research Institute's and the Global Energy Technology Strategy Project's research related to CCS, senior member of the Joint Global Change Research Institute's Integrated Assessment modeling team, Lead Author and the Cross-Cutting Chairman for Market Deployment for the recently released Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Special Report on Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage, Associate Editor for the //International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control//; R.T. Dahowski, researcher and Senior Research Engineer at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory; C.L. Davidson, Senior Research Scientist at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory; February 2009, “Comparing Existing Pipeline Networks with the Potential Scale of Future U.S. CO2 Pipeline Networks,” //Energy Procedia//, Volume 1, Issue 1, pp. 1595-1602, p. ScienceDirect)</span>

1. Introduction Interest ... the United States.



CCS is cost effective and immediate action is necessary
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogers 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *CEO of Duke Energy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, “SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE,” http://epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Files.View&FileStore_id=96b0a903-32fc-47f8-9a36-b4ddd9805e2b</span>

Carbon capture and ... attention and resources.



CCS tech has been used for decades
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ronca 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Debra Ronca, Contributing Writer at HSW Debra Ronca holds a B.A. in English from The College of New Jersey. 2008, “How Carbon Capture Works” *Note: Date inferred through newest cited source.http://science.howstuffworks.com/environmental/green-science/carbon-capture.htm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Carbon capture has ... employ carbon capture.</span>



===Plan Text=== 

Text: The Department of Defense should construct carbon pipelines for transportation of captured carbon in the United States.



==Hooch== 

Katrina Narrative - race + biopower


==Alpharetta== 

CCS - same as Wake



=Negative= 
===T - Transportation Infrastructure excludes Maintainance=== 

**1NC**

Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance
Lemer 11 - worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”, http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/)


<span class="Underline">What has been ... often squeezed, forcing neglect.</span>


**2NC**


Capital spending is distinct from repairs – investment mechanisms are comparatively different

Berger and McLynch 6 – executive director of MA Budget and Policy Center, policy analyst at MBPC (Noah and Jeff, PUBLIC SCHOOL FUNDING IN MASSACHUSETTS Where We Are, What Has Changed, and Options Ahead, 11/06 http://massbudget.org.s138401.gridserver.com/reports/pdf/Public_School_Funding-Where_We_Are_What_Has_Changed_-_FINAL.pdf )


<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Under the Census Bureau’s </span>... as current spending.



Studies prove – depth is better than breadth

Arrington ‘9 (Rebecca, UVA Today, “Study Finds That Students Benefit From Depth, Rather Than Breadth, in High School Science Courses” March 4)



A recent study reports ... on every major topic.



==Strategies== 


===Wake=== 


**Round 1 - St. Vincent Paul LV (Naval Ports)**
1nc - Security K, Obama Good DA, T - infrastructure, Florida CP, Heg Bad, Case Defense
2nr - Heg Bad, Case Defense


**Round 3 - Hooch GS (Port Security)**
1nc - Security K, T - infrastructure, Obama Good DA, States CP, Case Defense
2nr - States, Obama Good DA,


**Round 5 - Newark Science (Katrina)**
1nc - Kappeler K, State bad
2nr - State bad



===Hooch=== 


**Round 3 - Northview MS (nextGen)**
1nc - T - infrastructure, Spending DA, Obama Good DA, States CP, case Defense
2nr - States CP, Obama Good DA,

**Round 6 - Calhoun MS (Natives)**
1nc - Kappeler K, T - infrastructure, States CP, Obama Good DA, case Defense
2nr - States CP, Obama Good DA,


**Octas - Woodward DS (road rehabilitation)**
1nc - Security K, States CP, Obama Good DA, T - infrastructure, Heg bad, Econ defense
2nr - T-infrstructure


===Alpharetta=== 

**Round 1 - Marist (Port Nuclear scanning with terrorism adv + nuclear industry adv)**
1nc - Security K, T - infrastructure, States CP, Spending DA, nuclear defense, terrorism defense
2nr - T-infrastructure

**Round 4 - Padeia (Hydrogen Fuel Dispenser with warming adv + peak oil adv)**
1nc - coersion DA, Security K, T - infrastructure, Spending DA, PPP CP, Warming defense, Peak Oil defense
2nr - PPP CP, Spending DA, Coersion DA

**Quarters - Woodward DS (road rehabilitation)**
1nc - Security K, T - infrastructure, PPP CP, coersion DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, Inflation DA, econ defense, heg bad
2nr - Security K
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]