<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[toc]]
</span>

=<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glenbrooks 1AC (Port Security)</span>= 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No change from UMich version</span>

=<span style="font-size: 12pt;">UMich 1AC (Port Security)</span>= 

==Plan Text== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port security.


==Contention 1 is Terrorism== 

Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span>[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AAPA urges Congress to continue ... remain </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the federal level.</span>

Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NPR 3/26</span> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Mike Shuster said a moment ago, </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this highly enriched uranium.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

Attack is on the brink – anti-Muslim video
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ephron 9-15</span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The bodies of Ambassador Christopher Stevens ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> year, it will be a miracle.”</span>

Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Maerli 2k</span>(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-</span>2K, p. 111-112.)
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">A striking parallel can be seen in ... would lead to a nuclear explosive. </span>
Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 6/26</span> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">MILLIONS of cargo containers are ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the Congressional Research Service. </span>

Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calvan 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Department of Homeland Security ...explosives called “dirty bombs.’’</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even ....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>

Studies and historical trends prove that terrorists want to attack ports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hurst 8</span> (Cindy, political-military research analyst with the Foreign Military Studies<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Office and is also a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve, writing for IAGS: Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, non-profit organization in Washington dedicated to research and public debate on issues related to energy security, “The Terrorist Threat to <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Liquefied Natural Gas:<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Fact or Fiction?”, [[http://www.iags.org/hurstlng0208.pdf]], 2/8)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">recent studies</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> run counter to ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> crippling the U.S. economy.</span>

Bioterrorism is incredibly easy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allison 9-7</span> (Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Capabilities for producing bioterrorist agents ... live in an era of megaterror.</span>

Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The inspector general for the ...</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>

That causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction... plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

A port attack shuts down naval power
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Watts 5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1 Connecting the continental United States ...we learn from the experience? </span>

Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Navy has considerable ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">already overburdened airlift resources. </span>

Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11</span> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In light of global economic and ... will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>

==Contention 2 is the Economy== 
Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, and ...movements that make up international trade.</span>

Economic decline war and miscalculation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span>...<span style="font-size: 7pt;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New security measures are key to trade and ensure investor, consumer and business confidence</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Palac-McMiken 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">counter-terrorism measures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can ... for the purpose of illustration.</span>
The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritelli 5</span> – Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ships are the primary mode of ... customs filing process for U.S. importers.</span>


U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Boudreux 6</span>(Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the past 30 years, Solomon ...tolerate, harm to these foreigners.</span>


==Contention 3 is Solvency== 

Increasing port security investment will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack
John <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Medalia 6</span> Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] ) RF
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What Priority Should Port Security Have? ... ports and other potential targets.</span>


Visualization and imaging technology solves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting theNation’s Seaports:<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Balancing Securityand Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As documentation cannot be .... emissions, which are then detected.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

New computer and software takes out any solvency deficits
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting theNation’s Seaports:<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Balancing Securityand Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In-Port Imaging. Non-intrusive imaging ... start-ups</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and agile retreads.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 50</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

=<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Georgetown 1AC (Port Security)</span>= 

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>== 
Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">APA urges Congress to continue... should remain </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the federal level.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text</span>== 
Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding in port security.

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is Terrorism</span>== 

===Scenario 1 is Weapons of Mass Destruction=== 
Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 6/26</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLIONS of cargo containers are ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> no longer risk such delays.</span>

Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calvan 12 (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Department of Homeland Security will ... radioactive explosives called “dirty bombs.’’</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

Attack is on the brink – anti-Muslim video (read round 5)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ephron 9-15</span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bodies of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ambassador Christopher ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of the year, it will be a miracle.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And – Put away all of your Terrorism defense - The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy (read round 5)</span>**

**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bunn</span>__**<span class="styleboldunderline0">__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 20</span>__</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">10</span>__** <span style="background-color: white;">(Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white;">)</span>

Complacency about the threat is ... <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> nuclear material informing the police. 19</span>

Nuclear terrorism leads to extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ahmed 4</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1, </span>[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, ME)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A nuclear attack by terrorists ... </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">we will all be losers.</span>

Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and ... </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>

War with Russia outweighs - It’s the only existential risk
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bostrom 2</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span> [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|__http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A much greater existential risk ... encounter in the 21st century.</span>

Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The inspector general </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">forthe ... be essential moving forward" (U.S. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>

That causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction,... HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

New U.S. nuclear policies aren’t stable – a biological attack ensures widespread nuclear retaliation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potter 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (William Potter, Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS), author or editor of seventeen books, including Nuclear Power and Nonproliferation, Dismantling the Cold War, and the Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism. serves on the Nonproliferation Panel of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences Committee on International Security and Arms Control, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and served for five years on the UN Secretary-General’s Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters, member of the International Advisory Board of The Center for Policy Studies in Russia, advisor to the delegation of Kyrgyzstan at the 1995 NPT Review and Extension Conference and the 1997, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008, and 2009 sessions of the NPT Preparatory Committee, as well as at the 2000 and 2005 NPT Review Conferences, Winter 2010, “In Search of the Nuclear Taboo: Past, Present, and Future”, cns.miis.edu/other/potter_william_100115_IFRI_pp31.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the case of the United States, the ... retaliate; it </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> creates a commitment”.</span>

===Scenario 2 is Maritime Power=== 
A port attack shuts down naval power
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Watts 5 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1 Connecting the continental United ... we learn from the experience? </span>

Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Navy has considerable ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on already overburdened airlift resources. </span>

Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In light of global economic and ... will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Studies and historical trends prove that terrorists want to attack ports</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hurst 8</span> (Cindy, political-military research analyst with the Foreign Military Studies<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Office and is also a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve, writing for IAGS: Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, non-profit organization in Washington dedicated to research and public debate on issues related to energy security, “The Terrorist Threat to <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Liquefied Natural Gas:<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Fact or Fiction?”, [[http://www.iags.org/hurstlng0208.pdf]], 2/8)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On 14 February 2007, the Saudi </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... affiliates, will select a target. </span>

Increasing port security will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack
John <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Medalia 6</span> Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] ) RF
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What Priority Should Port Security Have? ... ports and other potential targets.</span>


==Contention 3 is Solvency== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Visualization and imaging technology solves</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and JowardShatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As documentation cannot be taken ... emissions, which are then detected.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

New computer and software takes out any solvency deficits
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and JowardShatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In-Port Imaging. Non-intrusive ... ambitious start-ups</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and agile retreads.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 50</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 4 is the Economy</span>== 
Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, and ... movements that make up international trade.</span>

Economic decline causes war and miscalculation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and JurgenBrauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">economic ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> considered ancillary to those views.</span>

Economic growth is key to prevent conflict
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bernauera 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, VallyKoubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Previous research has shown that </span><span style="line-height: 24px;">... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">supported by the existing literature. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New security measures are key to trade and ensure investor, consumer and business confidence</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palac-McMiken 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (EvanorPalac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">counter-terrorism measures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... simply for the purpose of illustration.</span>
Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The loss of investor</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and creditor</span><span style="line-height: 24px;">... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">another round of </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">negative feedback effects</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP (read round 2 & 4)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritelli 5</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ships are the primary mode of ... customs filing process for U.S. importers.</span>

U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war (read round 2&4)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Boudreux 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the past 30 years</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Solomon ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> tolerate, harm to these foreigners.</span>


U.S. competitiveness is decreasing now (read round 4)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Hill 9/5</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (The Hill news service, “US slips in global competitiveness rankings”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/economy/247619-us-slips-in-global-competitiveness-rankings]], 9/5/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States is losing ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">sustainable growth</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> path.”</span>

So is growth and unemployment (read round 4)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 8/29</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (New York Times news service, citing government data, “Economy Still Stuck in Low Gear”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/business/economy/second-quarter-growth-revised-up-to-1-7-percent-rate.html]], 8/29/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Government data released Wednesday ... unemployment, which is at 8.3 percent</span>

Investments in port security have been catalysts for job creation and economic prosperity—facilitate commerce and contribute to national economic growth (read round 4)
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PR Newswire 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (American Association of Port Authorities, “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” 6/19/12 Lexis 6/19/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since 9/11, the Port Security Grant ... regional</span>and national economic growth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>