[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
1nc vs CK McClatchy, J Heidt Judging

1nc vs. RLVs
T Humans
T Its
T Increase
Consult Russia
Multiplank Cp --- Fund Earth Science Program, invest in non-rocket ground based systems as per our Coopersmith evidence, Specifically, the DOE should provide guaranteed contracts to companies that demonstrate a replacement for the Space Shuttle, Specifically, NASA should cancel the Space Launch System, fully fund all United States federal government Earth Science programs and fully fund all current NASA programs.
Buddhism Kritik
Ozone Disad
DA Politics

2nr:
Buddhism

==Buddhism Kritik== 

===1NC=== 

**The affirmative’s attempt to secure the self against the other is a self-fulfilling prophecy that makes human security impossible and suffering inevitable**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Loy 10 –</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (David has a M.A. in Asian philosophy from the University of Hawaii and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the National University of Singapore. He is a professor on the Faculty of International Studies at Bunkyo University in Japan. “Healing Ecology” [[http://blogs.dickinson.edu/buddhistethics/files/2010/05/Loy-Healing-Ecology1.pdf]]) BW</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Dukkha = suffering </span>

So <span class="Underline">what does Buddhism have to offer us today</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">That concept of the ego is a prerequisite for violence and nuclear war </span>**
<span class="Heading2Char">**Ikeda 07** – </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Daisaku, philosopher and president of Soka Gokkai International, “Restoring the Human Connection: The First Step to Global Peace,” [[http://www.sgi-uk.org/resources/PeaceProposal2007.pdf]]</span>

Similarly, when I met with Mohamed __ElBaradei__

**<span class="Heading2Char">Our investigation of the mind world dualism is a prerequisite to any truth claims </span>**
<span class="Heading2Char">**Jackson 10** – </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Patrick Thaddeus Associate Professor of International Relations in the School of International Service at the American University in Washington, DC. “The Conduct of Inquiry in International Relations: Philosophy of Science and its Implications for the Study of World Politics,” p 41-2</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="background: aqua;">Ontological commitments</span></span>, whether philosophical or scientific

=Round 2= 

Mars
--Frontier
--Col
--Hegemony
---Warming Impact

=Round 3= 

vs. GBN - Hb Visas

1nc:
Extra T
Aspec
Buddhism Kritik
Politics Disad
Eb1 Visas Cp
JWST Disad
Case
--Heg Bad
--Dedev


2nr:
Buddhism Kritik

=Round 4= 
==Moon== 

===**1AC - STEM**=== 

**STEM declining now**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bolden 3-27 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Charles F. Jr., 3/27/12 (NASA Administrator; Former Astronaut, http://curiosity.discovery.com/question/sputnik-moment/page/2#answer_PRD__4f71c857623e22_16024691)__</span>

__<span style="font-size: 8px;">We don't have a Sputnik ….</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8px;"> we need for some of the work we do.</span>__

__**The moon presence provides a stimulus to STEM**__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schmitt 12 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Harrison (January, former astronaut and U.S. Senator, America’s Deep Space Vision: Settlement of the Moon and Mars versus Asteroid Visits, http://blog.heartland.org/2012/01/americas-deep-space-vision-settlement-of-the-moon-and-mars-versus-asteroid-visits/)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 8px;">Education</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 8px;">Stimulation of Learning and …. the sky…and to their futures… while other children look up to see Earth.</span>__

__**The Moon is the vital internal link**__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schmitt 10 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Former Sen. Harrison H. (2/6, R-NM, “Obama space policy cedes Moon to China, Space Station to Russia and Liberty to the Ages”, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2445788/posts)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 8px;">What, then, should be the focus of ….</span> to study or divert them<span style="font-size: 8px;">, as the case may be.</span>__

__**Scenario two is Warming – STEM education key to solve**__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mejia 9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – * Employment Services Manager at South Bay Workforce Investment Board, City University of New York-Baruch College (education) [Robert T. Mejia, “What’s Old is New: Green Jobs & What America’s Federal Workforce Investment System Can Do Now to Develop a Green Workforce”, 1/14/09, www.southbayresource.net/articles/whatsoldisnew.pdf, tables, charts, and graphs omitted]</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 8px;">In addition to adaptation, </span>__science, ….__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> technologies, with strong federal financing of community and public sector organizations to provide career and academic support, </span>__will make a difference__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>__

__**Warming is real and happening**__
__**Nordhaus 12 –**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">William D, Professor of Economics @ Yale University, "Why the Global Warming Skeptics Are Wrong" March 2012 </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2012/mar/22/why-global-warming-skeptics-are-wrong/</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 7.33333px;">The first claim is that the planet is not warming…</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 7.33333px;"> of the twentieth century.”5</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Costello 11 –</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 7.33333px;">Advocacy about the health consequences …</span>__environments uninhabitable.__
===1AC - China=== 

**Contention two is China**

**Obama’s decision to abandon the moon has created a leadership vacuum**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thomas 12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Cal (January 3, “China's JFK moment”, Examiner Columnist Cal Thomas is nationally syndicated by Tribune Media, [[http://washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/columnists/2012/01/chinas-jfk-moment/156950]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">President </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8px;">Obama's </span>decision<span style="font-size: 8px;"> in 2010 </span><span class="Underline">….</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> that will cost us far more than money.</span>

**The US is in a __moon race__ with China – the outcome will alter the __balance of power__ – getting their first is __vital__ to protect our __satellites__ and acquire the __resources__ and skills to facilitate __colonization__**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Spudis 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Paul (Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, 2/9/10, Paul D., SpaceRef.com, “The New Space Race,” [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewnews.html?id=1376]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">During the 1990's, we saw a revolution in …., the satellite is rapidly and easily rendered worthless</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">…. choice is clear; we cannot afford to relinquish our foothold in space and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration.</span>

**China is __aggressively__ pursuing the moon---multiple sources prove**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hawkins 11 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">William R. (3/7, a consultant specializing in international economic and national security issues. He is a former economics professor and Republican Congressional staff member, [[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.8906/pub_detail.asp]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Meanwhile, </span>China is ….<span style="font-size: 8px;">the </span>decline of America<span style="font-size: 8px;">n civilization. </span>

**Scenarios one is Heg – the plan is key**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Whittington 12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Mark R. (1/15, “Prominent American Scientist Warns About Chinese Moon Effort”, the author of Children of Apollo and The Last Moonwalker. He has written on space subjects for a variety of periodicals, including The Houston Chronicle, The Washington Post, USA Today, the L.A. Times, and The Weekly Standard, http://voices.yahoo.com/prominent-american-scientist-warns-chinese-moon-10838399.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Paul </span><span class="Underline">Spudis, a scientist …. **goes-everything**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Plan is key to it**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schmitt 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Former Sen. Harrison H. (2/6, R-NM, “Obama space policy cedes Moon to China, Space Station to Russia and Liberty to the Ages”, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2445788/posts)</span>

__The Administration finally has ….__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> offer the way to get back on the right track. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Hegemonic decline guarantees war** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kagan 12**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Robert, senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution [“Why the World Needs America,” February 11th, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html]]] HURWITZ</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">With the outbreak of World War I… the world looked like right before the American order came into being. </span>

**Scenario 2 is the Lunar Regime**

**Getting to the moon __first__ is key to a lunar legal regime**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Paul </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Spudis, '12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (January 14, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, “China’s Long March to the Moon”, blogs.airspacemag.com/moon/2012/01/china’s-long-march-to-the-moon/</span>

<span class="Underline">The real </span>cause for <span class="Underline">… **competing ideology**.</span>

**A new legal framework for the moon is key to avoid resource conflicts**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hatch 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Benjamin (Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review, “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: the Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime,” vol. 24, rev. 229, [[http://www.law.emory.edu/fileadmin/journals/eilr/24/24.1/Hatch.pdf%29RK|http://www.law.emory.edu/fileadmin/journals/eilr/24/24.1/Hatch.pdf)]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A return of humans to the Moon …</span><span class="Underline"> of the next century</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Moon resource wars would cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">James </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Gundun, ‘10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (political scientist and counterinsurgency analyst based in Washington D.C. (James, “America and Chinas Hegemony War: Lunar Warfare”, January 9th, [[http://hadalzone.blogspot.com/2010/01/america-and-chinas-hegemon-war-lunar.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Wired ran a story in 2006 titled …a united</span><span class="Underline"> **humanity**.</span>

**Scenario 3 is Rare Earth Materials – China’s hoarding them now**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">CNN 3-13</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, “Obama announces WTO case against China over rare earths”, http://www.cnn.com/2012/03/13/world/asia/china-rare-earths-case/?hpt=hpt_bn5</span>
<span class="Underline">The </span>U<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates, the … F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.</span>

**Plan is key to access new sources of Rare Earth Minerals**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">David 10 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Leonard (October 4, “Is Mining Rare Minerals on the Moon Vital to National Security?”, David has been reporting on the space industry for more than five decades. He is past editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines and has written for SPACE.com since 1999, [[http://www.space.com/9250-mining-rare-minerals-moon-vital-national-security.html]])</span>

The<span class="Underline"> seemingly barren … neighbor</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Frustrating!"</span>

**Dependence causes US-Sino rare earth wars---China will halt ALL exports**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Commiso 10 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Katharine</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> New Scientist, “Is this the start of the element wars?”, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/shortsharpscience/2010/09/is-this-the-start-of-the-eleme.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">China has just 37 percent …. of Chemistry, Richard Pike. </span>

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Sebastian </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Anthony 11,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“Rare earth crisis: Innovate, or be crushed by China”, 12-30, [[http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/111029-rare-earth-crisis-innovate-or-be-crushed-by-china/2]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">rare earth ….</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nts and corporations </span>

===1AC - Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its lunar telepresence.**

===1AC - Solvency=== 

**Contention Three is Solvency**

**Telepresence on the moon is necessary for successful colonization**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Leonard </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">David, ’12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (1/10, SPACE.com’s Space Insider Columnist, David has been reporting on the space industry for more than five decades. He is last year’s winner of the National Space Club Press Award and a past editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines. He has written for SPACE.com since 1999, “Far Out! New Deep Space Mission Ideas Draw NASA's Eye”, http://www.space.com/14188-nasa-deep-space-manned-mission-concepts.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Hopkins said more </span><span class="Underline">people are …. about putting human cognition there."</span>

**That solves extinction**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Paul D </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Lowman, ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (PhD, geophysicist, 14 January 2008. “Why Go Back to the Moon?” http://www.nasa.gov/centers/goddard/news/series/moon/why_go_back.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">First, and most fundamental: </span><span class="Underline">**the …**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> problems in the 15th century</span>

**The tech is available**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Leonard </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">David, 2/10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">/12 (“NASA Eyes Plan for Deep-Space Outpost Near the Moon”, SPACE.com’s Space Insider Columnist--- David has been reporting on the space industry for more than five decades. He is a winner of last year's National Space Club Press Award and a past editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines. He has written for SPACE.com since 1999, [[http://www.space.com/14518-nasa-moon-deep-space-station-astronauts.html]])</span>

L<span class="Underline">ibration </span>points<span class="Underline">, also ….</span> roadways<span class="Underline"> on the surface of the moon</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Telepresence works and is inexpensive**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Dr. Dan </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Lester ’11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (7/5, infrared astronomer at the University of Texas with a background in instrument development, “Human spaceflight, and the reason for (almost) being there”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1877/1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the long debate about human space … at additional operational costs.</span>



=Round 5= 

Moon
--- Same Advantages

=Round 6= 

vs. Carrolton - Sounding Rockets

1nc:
T Humanf
Aspec
JWST Disad
ISS Disad
Politics Disad
Consult Russia Cp
Case
--Dedev


2nr:
T Human
=Round 7= 

Moon - Same as above

=Outrounds= 
I think everyone who needs the cites right now has them but if you do not then email me
==Octos== 

===SUSTAIN=== 

====1AC - Plan==== 

====1AC - Terror==== 

====1AC - A2AD==== 

==Quarters== 


===SUSTAIN=== 

====1AC - Prolif==== 

====1AC - China==== 








[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 832px; width: 1px;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The affirmative’s attempt to secure the self against the other is a self-fulfilling prophecy that makes human security impossible and suffering inevitable </span>**</span>