[[toc]]
We are a new partnership as of Dowling -- to see past arguments go to the Hannah Stafford and Adele Watkins wiki.

Also email hannah.s.stafford@gmail.com for any cite requests.

=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Dowling== 
===Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment on lands defined in 18 United States Code Section 1151.**

===Contention One – Native Culture=== 
**Transportation infrastructure on Indian reservations is suffering from a huge construction and maintenance backlog that will only increase in severity.**
**NCAI, ’12** [2012, National Congress of American Indians, Indian Country Budget Request FY 13: Transportation, http://www.ncai.org/resources/ncai-publications/indian-country-budget-request/fy2013/FY2013_Budget_Transportation.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Deficient transportation infrastructure...highway reauthorization period.</span>


**Because of the Federal Government’s neglect American Indian traffic fatalities have steadily increased. Yet American traffic fatalities have steadily decreased during the same time.**
**Keel 11,** Jefferson Keel, president of the National Congress of American Indians, 8-15-11, Senate Committee on Indian Affairs Hearing, “Oversight hearing on tribal transportation: Paving the way for Jobs, Infrastructure, and Safety in Native Communities,” www.indian.senate.gov/hearings/upload/Jefferson-Keel-FINAL-testimony.pdf
<span style="font-size: 70%;">State governments spend ... the United States</span>


**Transportation infrastructure is critical to the sustainability of native life – education, health, and basic necessities**
**Boyles and Brinton et. al 6** (Benjamin Boyles, Erin Brinton, Anne Dunning, Angela Mathias, and Mark Sorrell, Metapress & The Native American Transportation Issues Committee sponsored publication of this paper. “Native American Transit Current Practices, Needs, and Barriers”, 2006, trb.metapress.com/content/qu42054t10716818/fulltext.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Native Americans have.... their basic needs.</span>


**Everyday violence must be prioritized – it is the largest proximate cause of war, creates priming that psychologically structures the worst atrocities**
**Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois 04**(Nancy and Philippe, Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)

<span style="font-size: 70%;">This large and.... feelings of victimization).</span>


**This destruction of Indian culture is part of modern racism – the federal government’s hands-off approach disregards the historical genocide of Indian peoples.**
**Adams and Goldbard 95,** Don Adams and Darlene Goldbard, writers and consultants in organizational and cultural development, 1995, Institute for Cultural Democracy, “Cultural Policy in US History,” http://www.wwcd.org/policy/US/UShistory.html#AMERCULT

The decimation of.... it to continue.

**Transportation policies are critical to issues of race in society**
**Bullard 4** (Robert D. Bullard, Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University. Previously Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, known as the 'father of environmental justice', 2004, "Chapter One: The anatomy of transportation racism" in Highway robbery : transportation racism & new routes to equity / edited by Robert D. Bullard, Glenn S. Johnson, Angel O. Torres. Cambridge, Mass. : South End Press, p. 19)

<span style="font-size: 70%;">America’s dirty secret.... live, work, and play.“</span>


**Only engaging with the state can create change**
**Themba-Nixon 2k** Executive Director of The Praxis Project, a nonprofit organization helping communities use media and policy advocacy to advance their welfare- [makani, Changing the rules what public policy means for organizing Colorlines 3.2]

<span style="font-size: 80%;">In essence, policies.... to making it so.</span>




**Major war is obsolete – multiple factors prevent global conflict**
Michael Mandelbaum, American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, February 25, 1999, Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series, “Is Major War Obsolete?” http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/

<span style="font-size: 70%;">My argument says...increasingly, like that.</span>


**As long as security enframes policy discussion, war and international violence are inevitable – we must assert new forms of agency to question the underlying foundations for international violence.**
**Burke, ‘7** (Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales, Theory & Event, 10:2)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">My argument here,...Will our thought?</span>





===Contention 2 – Moral Obligation of the Federal Government=== 

**Underfunding by the federal government is a violation of basic civil rights**
**USCCR ‘03**
(United States Commission of Civil Rights, “A Quiet Crisis: Federal Funding and Unmet Needs in Indian Country,” [[http://www.usccr.gov/pubs/na0703/na0731.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The federal government’s ....sustain life on reservations.</span>


**Federal obligation is distinct from federal dominion—the judicial doctrine cited in their evidence should be delinked from positive actions like the plan**
**Wood, 1994** (Mary Christina, University of Oregon Assistant Law Professor, “Indian Land and the Promise of Native Sovereignty: The Trust Doctrine Revisited”, 1994 Utah L. Rev. 1471)
<span style="font-size: 70%;">The Kagama and .... protection of the laws.</span>

**Our prescription for institutional change doesn’t mean we have to endorse those institutions – we can maintain radical exteriority to institutional practices while simultaneously demanding change.**
Badiou, ‘2 Ecole Philosophy Teacher, Ethics: An Essay in the Understanding of Evil, pp. 97-8

<span style="font-size: 80%;">And when you....exteriority to the state.</span>

==Lexington Aff - LPOEs== 
===Adv 1 Manufacturing=== 
**First, the manufacturing sector is at risk**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Curtin 10/17</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> – </span>Staff Writer for CNBC News and the Daily Ticker (Stacy, 10/17/12, “Manufacturing 'Recovery' Not All It's Cracked Up to Be?,” [[@http://www.cnbc.com/id/49448048]])

<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">While proposals by....</span>countries cannot do.


**And reducing border congestion key to manufacturing and near-shoring**
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Wilson and Lee 2012</span>** (Christopher E. Wilson is an Associate at the Wilson Center's Mexico Institute. Erik Lee serves as Associate Director at the North American Center for Transborder Studies (NACTS) at Arizona State University, July, [[http://www.siteselection.com/issues/2012/jul/us-mex-border.cfm]]) rss

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The integrated nature ...dollars each year.</span>


**And, Near-shoring critical for manufacturing**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**CIPS 2012** (Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply, 17 June 2012 | Kamalpreet Badasha,</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">[[http://www.supplymanagement.com/news/2012/manufacturers-try-near-shoring-to-mitigate-supply-chain-risk/]]) rss</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">According to KPMG’s...and reputational risk.”</span>


**And, manufacturing has a few benefits, we isolate two**


**First, manufacturing is key to the pharmaceutical industry**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Swezey ’11</span>** - Project Director for Breakthrough Institute where he works as an energy and climate policy analyst (Devon, 2011, “Manufacturing Growth Advanced Manufacturing and the Future of the American Economy,” [[http://thebreakthrough.org/blog/BTI_Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_Manufacturing_Growth_.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 80%;">New manufacturing thrives...t development and manufacturing.12</span>


**And, The pharmaceutical industry is key to preventing bioterrorism**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Washington Post 1 (2001, Nov. 8, p.e01, Justin Gillis, [[http://www.vaccinationnews.com/DailyNews/November2001/ScisRaceForVax.htm]]) rss</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">U.S. scientists, ...needed by the billions.</span>


**Independently, advanced manufacturing stops bioterror**
**Morgan et al. ’03** (Sarah Morgan East Texas Baptist University, Silverio Colon, Arizona State University Department of Bioengineering College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Judith A. Ruffner and John A. Emerson Organic Materials Department, Ramona L. Myers Nuclear Safety Assessment Department, “Biomanufacturing: A State of the Technology Review “September 2003,[[@http://www.che.ncsu.edu/academics/concentrations/documents/Biomanufacturing-AStateofTechRev.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Perhaps the most..of these fields. </span>


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">**Bioterrorism leads to extinction** </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Parson, ‘6–**(Ted Parson is Joseph L. Sax Collegiate Professor of Law, Professor of Natural Resources & Environment, and (by courtesy) Professor of Public Policy at the University of Michigan. His research examines international environmental law and policy, the role of science and technology in public policy, and the political economy of regulation., “The Big One: A Review of Richard Posner’s Catastrophe: Risk and Response,” [[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~parson/website/pdf/parson-jel-45-posner-catastrophe-review.pdf.)%20%20hstafford|http://www-personal.umich.edu/~parson/website/pdf/parson-jel-45-posner-catastrophe-review.pdf.) hstafford]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">For his fourth risk... dozens of countries.</span>


**The Second scenario is deterrence**

**Manufacturing capabilities key to technology necessary for U.S. deterrence**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**O’Hanlon 2012** (Mackenzie Eaglen, American Enterprise Institute Rebecca Grant, IRIS Research Robert P. Haffa, Haffa Defense Consulting Michael O'Hanlon, The Brookings Institution Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution Martin Sullivan, Commonwealth Consulting Barry Watts, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy January 2012,” pg online</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The current wave ... a globalized marketplace.</span>


**Defense industrial base deters war with Russia, China, and terrorists**
**Watts 8**
(Senior Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (Barry D, “The US Defense Industrial Base, Past, Present and Future,” 2008 CBA,[[http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since the 1950s.... since the 1950s.</span>


**Deterrence solves nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Robinson 1**– president and director of the Department of Energy Sandia National Laboratories (C. Paul, “A White Paper: Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.nukewatch.org/importantdocs/resources/pursuing_a_new_nuclear_weapons_p.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">I served as .... in our hands.</span>



===Plan=== 

The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment on Land Ports of Entries in the United States.

===Adv 2 Trade=== 

**First, Efficient border key to trade competitiveness**
**US Chamber of Commerce 2011** (Steps to a 21st Century US Mexico Border, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/.../2011_us_mexico_report.pdf|www.uschamber.com/sites/.../2011_us_mexico_report.pdf]] ) rss

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Key U.S. industries,.. the president’s goal.</span>


**And, improved transportation solves competitiveness**
**Wilson and Lee 2012** (Christopher E. Wilson is an Associate at the Wilson Center's Mexico Institute. Erik Lee serves as Associate Director at the North American Center for Transborder Studies (NACTS) at Arizona State University, July, [[http://www.siteselection.com/issues/2012/jul/us-mex-border.cfm]]) rss

<span style="font-size: 90%;">This trade relationship... at the same time.</span>


**And, congestion limits benefits of trade**
**US Chamber of Commerce 2011** (Steps to a 21st Century US Mexico Border, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/.../2011_us_mexico_report.pdf|www.uschamber.com/sites/.../2011_us_mexico_report.pdf]] P. ) rss

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Despite the significance...jobs in 2007.</span>


**And, Increased exports makes econ sustainable and solves the trade deficit**
**Istrate et al 10** (Emilia, Senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings,http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf )

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Exports Could Contribute... from trading partners.</span>

**And, trade translates into jobs and growth**
**US Chamber of Commerce 201**1 (Steps to a 21st Century US Mexico Border, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/.../2011_us_mexico_report.pdf|www.uschamber.com/sites/.../2011_us_mexico_report.pdf]] P. ) rss

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Trade between the ... to GDP growth.</span>


**And, Scholarly consensus concludes economic crisis causes and intensifies war**
**Royal 10 –** Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah, “Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives,” pg 213-215.

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Less intuitive is how... due to the </span>


**And, Trade solves all the incentives for war**
**Griswold 11** Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9. http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf

Our more globalized ....<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> by civil conflict and war. </span>


**And only the federal government can solve the trade advantage**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">deLisle 2k</span>**—Jacques deLisle is Professor of Law at the University of Pennsylvania Law School and Senior Fellow at FPRI.
“Foreign Affairs, Federalism, and Well-Meaning Mischief: A Constitutional Close Shave on Massachusetts’s Burma Law,” July 15, 2000 The Chinese Puzzle of Taiwan’s Status,” appeared in the Winter 2000 issue of Orbis, FPRI’s quarterly journal of world affairs. [[http://www.fpri.org/enotes/20000715.law.delisle.massburmalaw.html]], KENTUCKY

The risk, in short,..... of national interests.






=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===States=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">**The fifty states and all relevant territories will INSERT PLAN. The fifty states and all relevant territories will amend state constitution to allow deficit spending.**</span>

**States solve – reforms overcome solvency deficits**
**Puentes, 11**- senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Robert, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,”
[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]]

<span style="font-size: 70%;">III. A New State.... kind of self help.</span>

===Funding PIC=== 
**The United States federal government will substantially increase (insert plan excluding it’s and investment) through a system of competitive bidding open to all firms.**

**Solves and is distinct from the plan**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Bonner R. **Cohen**, , Ph,D., Senior Fellow at the National Center for Public Policy Research, April 11, **2012**, “Fixing America's Crumbling Underground Water Infrastructure”, [[http://cei.org/issue-analysis/fixing-americas-crumbling-underground-water-infrastructure]]., KENTUCKY</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">As decay takes ....and benefit taxpayers.</span>


**AND – Counterplan solves – generates uniqueness for our turn by no picking winners**
Bonner R. **Cohen**, , Ph,D., Senior Fellow at the National Center for Public Policy Research, April 11, **2012**, “Fixing America's Crumbling Underground Water Infrastructure”, http://cei.org/issue-analysis/fixing-americas-crumbling-underground-water-infrastructure., km

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Conclusion By opening ...for generations to come.</span>


**Solves the aff – key to China relations**
Zhang **Yuwei**, China Daily, **2012**-02-14, “Chinese funds could help strengthen US infrastructure”, [[http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/epaper/2012-02/14/content_14606475.htm]], km

<span style="font-size: 80%;">With Chinese investment....anywhere," he added.</span>

**Solves nuclear war**
**Desperes, 01** (John Desperes, Fellow, RAND Corporation. “China, the United States, and the Global Economy.” p. 227-8

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Indeed, U.S.-Chinese relations...currently endangered species.</span>

====2nc net ben==== 
**Free trade on the brink – plan uses buy America bonds to exclude foreign investment**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Morton, 5-10-’12** (Peter, “Buy America spectre rises again” Hamilton Spectator, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Canadian companies hoping...economic stimulus bill.</span>

**Causes trade war and econ collapse**
**Oppenheimer,** Correspondent for the Miami Herald, **‘9** (Andres, February 5, “Reject ‘Buy American’ clause or risk a trade war” Salt Lake City Tribune, lexis)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Forget about Iraq... turn into "Bye, America."</span>

===Plagiarism CP=== 

**We advocate the entirety of the 1AC except the author citations.**

**Plagiarism solves and avoids the net benefits-it allows us to create radical change and opens up space for us and others to listen. There is no such thing as intellectual property only by sharing their ideas as our own can we solve the 1AC**
**Stafford and Norgard NOW** , http://www.crimethinc.com/texts/harbinger/

<span style="font-size: 80%;">So we can... they have us?</span>

**The impact is the worst forms of violence imaginable you must meet our demands to end the demand for intellectual property**
**Stafford and Norgard NOW** , http://www.crimethinc.com/texts/harbinger/

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Unless you grant...been for decades.</span>

**Without revolution we are doomed to extinction. This round is key though it allows us to live free as individuals and change the system and process to one that allows for anarchy.**
**Stafford and Norgard NOW** , http://www.crimethinc.com/texts/harbinger/

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Can we get along? ....hard time to date.</span>

==DAs== 
===Fiscal Cliff=== 
**Fiscal Cliff deal now – Obama’s capital is key**
Madison 12/6[LUCY MADISON / CBS NEWS/ December 6, 2012, 10:55 AM, On "fiscal cliff" deal, House GOP appears poised to back Boehner, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-250_162-57557528/on-fiscal-cliff-deal-house-gop-appears-poised-to-back-boehner/]], mccarty]

<span style="font-size: 70%;">As the clock ticks... yesterday on MSNBC.</span>


**INSERT SPECIFIC LINK HERE**


**AND – Post election capital is finite – the plan costs PC**
Ron Kampeas (writer for Intermountain Jewish News) 11/7, 2012 “Obama’s second term: More of the same, at least until Iran flares” http://www.ijn.com/presidential-elections/2012-presidential-elections/3530-obamas-second-term-more-of-the-same-at-least-until-iran-flares

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The fiscal cliff.. initiatives in the Middle East.</span>


**Presidential leadership is key to a compromise**
Hutchison, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, 9/21/2012
(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Despite warnings of....punish working families.</span>


**Sequestration destroys US global military power---collapses deterrence and triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war**
**Hunter 9/30** Duncan is a U.S. Representative from Alaska. “SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE,” 2012, http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1#article

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Over the next 10 years, ....against any threat.</span>

===Immigration Reform DA -- with US/India Relations Impact=== 

**INSERT UNIQUENESS (changes every tournament/round)**

**INSERT PLAN SPECIFIC LINK**

**PC is key to immigration**
Chris Weigant, Political writer, 1/23/13 [“Handicapping Obama's Second Term Agenda,” HuffPost, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/chris-weigant/obama-second-term_b_2537802.html]

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The second big .... wait and see.</span>

**Immigration reform expands skilled labor --- spurs relations and economic growth in China and India**
**Los Angeles Times, 11/9/2012** (Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform, p. http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Comprehensive immigration reform... not," he said.</span>

**US/India relations averts South Asian nuclear war**
**Schaffer**, Spring **2002** (Teresita – Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security, Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Washington's increased interest ...the United States.</span>

===Immigration Reform DA -- with Mexican failed states impact=== 

**INSERT UNIQUENESS (changes every tournament/round)**


**INSERT PLAN SPECIFIC LINK**

**PC is key to immigration**
Chris Weigant, Political writer, 1/23/13 [“Handicapping Obama's Second Term Agenda,” HuffPost, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/chris-weigant/obama-second-term_b_2537802.html]

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The second big .... wait and see.</span>


**Immigration flows key to prevent Mexican collapse**
**Littlefield 9**
Research associate, Council on Hemispheric Affairs, (Edward S., “As Mexico’s Problems Mount: The Impact of the Economic Recession on Migration Patterns from Mexico,” March 28th, http://www.indigenousportal.com/Politics/As-Mexico%E2%80%99s-Problems-Mount-The-Impact-of-the-Economic-Recession-on-Migration-Patterns-from-Mexico.html)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Implications for Mexico... south of the border.</span>


**Mexican state failure causes a domino effect of international failure of the entire nation-state system**
**Vail 9**
Jeff, March 8,a Colorado business litigation attorney and Colorado personal injury attorney, Air Force intelligence officer that planned over 200 special operations missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, writes and speaks frequently on legal strategy and innovation, systems theory, complexity, and sustainability.“Mexico: A Collapse Update,” http://www.theoildrum.com/node/5172

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The potential impact...global oil exports.</span>


**Failed states caused great power war – they’re the largest risk of escalation**
**Grygiel 9**
Jakub, George H.W. Bush Assoc Prof, IR, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced Int’l Studies, Johns Hopkins U (“Vacuum Wars: The Coming Competition Over Failed States,” American Interest, Jul/Aug 2009, [[@http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=622]])

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">This prevailing view ...examples of this. </span>

===Buy America DA=== 

**There will be no new “Buy American” transportation spending bills now**
**Rayner, 5/8** (<span style="font-size: 90%;">Martin – independent consultant working in the customs brokerage and international trade logistics field, held executive-level positions in the trade logistic industry, “Buy America” Exceptionalism, International Trade Compliance Strategies, p. [[http://tradecompliance.ghy.com/2012/05/buy-america-exceptionalism/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Pressured by Canadian... already in place.</span>


**Plan must follow Buy America laws that triggers protectionism**
**Oppenheimer 9** (Andres – Latin America correspondent for the Miami Herald, Reject ‘Buy American’ clause or risk a trade war, The Salt Lake Tribune, p. Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Forget about Iraq.....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> rest of the world</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Global nuclear war.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Michael **Panzner**, Prof. at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase, **2009**, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, p. 136-138</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The rise in .... of a new world war.</span>



==Kritiks== 
===Security K=== 
**Insecurity is inevitable - The aff’s fantasy of control will only produce a “never-ending war” for security—blowback ensures efforts to create order out of disorder will fail**
Ritchie 11—<span style="font-size: 90%;">Nick, PhD, Research Fellow at the Department of Peace Studies @ University of Bradford, Executive Committee of the British Pugwash Group and the Board of the Nuclear Information Service [“Rethinking security: a critical analysis of the Strategic Defence and Security Review” International Affairs Volume 87, Issue 2, Article first published online: 17 MAR 2011]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Third, the legitimating... of British citizens.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">**The Aff’s securitized solutions to insecurity results in a flawed ontology of escalatory violence** </span>
Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]]

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The problem with...is never questioned.</span>


**Reject the affirmative’s securitization – kritik is key to open the possibility of new political thought**
Mark Neocleous, Professor of Critique of Political Economy @ Brunel University (UK), editorial of [[http://www.radicalphilosophy.com/|Radical Philosophy]], 2008 (“Critique of Security.” PG(s). (185-186 )

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The only way.... return the gift.</span>
===Norm/Schlag=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**1. Links**</span>
**There is no reason to vote affirmative-they cannot articulate any linkage between their prescriptions and practical, worldly effects-the only people who could use the plan for good wouldn’t**
Schlag 90, professor of law@ univ. colorado, 1990 (pierre, stanford law review, november, page lexis)
<span style="font-size: 70%;">In fact, normative... advice into effect.</span>

**Roleplaying as the USFG only trains us to become servants to the bureaucracy and makes us cognitively defenseless against the logic of institutions**
Schlag 91 (PIERRE, COLORADO LAW PROF. 139 U. PA. L. REV.801, APRIL)

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The problem for us.... logic of institutions</span>

**2. Impacts**
**1.Normative bureaucracy populates the world with subjects who think they’re empowered Cartesian egos but who are in fact shills of the bureaucratic control whose essential meaning is the infliction of pain and death**
Schlag 90 professor of law@ univ. colorado, (pierre, stanford law review, november, page lexis)
<span style="font-size: 70%;">All of this can....academic and otherwise.</span>

**2. Solvency Turn: Focus on imaginary “solutions” disempowers the individual and ignores the personal element of the harms, preventing concrete localized change**
Kappeler 95, associate prof. at al-akhawayn university [susanne, the will to violence: the politics of personal behavior, pg. 10-11]

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Which is why many.... war and violence.</span>


**3. External impact: Debate within this normative framework makes people disinterested in creating change and creates a world of neoconservatives and endless imperialism**
Spanos 4 (William, in Joe Millers’ Book Cross-ex pg. 467)

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Dear Joe Miller,... makers is leading.</span>


===Cap K=== 

**Investment in public transportation is critical to sustainable capitalism and the development of a stable economy only further facilitates the growth of capitalism**
**Pollin 2008** [Robert, Economist, professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst, and founding co-director of its Political Economy Research Institute. “RESURRECTION OF THE RENTIER,” [[http://www.peri.umass.edu/fileadmin/pdf/other_publication_types/NLR28008.pdf]], ]

<span style="font-size: 80%;">In my view,.... profits has fallen.</span>

**Capitalism is the root cause of environmental collapse, war, global oppression, and exacerbates all other problems – this evidence is comparative on TF, Probability, and Mag**
**Brown, 5** [Charles, Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan] May 13th 2005 (http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The capitalist class... in the U.S</span>

**Our alt is to vote negative – we must reject every instance of capitalism, reformism will fail – absent a complete rejection extinction becomes inevitable.**
**Herod ’04** (James, The Strategy Described Abstractly, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">It is time to try...even to extinction.</span>


===Give back the land=== 

**The 1AC is a typical leftist response to international oppression that remains silent in the face of the on-going colonization of native North America. The plan serves as a mask for the state, making it appear benevolent, even as its existence is contingent upon a continuing legacy of colonization that guarantees continued international exploitation—only by giving back the land and rethinking our relationship to this colonization as THE starting point can we solve the international and national forms of oppression, racism, sexism, and militarism which make violence and extinction inevitable,**
**Ward Churchill 1996**(Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder, BA and MA in
Communications from Sangamon State, From A Native Son pgs 520 – 530)

<span style="font-size: 80%;">I’ll debunk some ...order on non-Indians.</span>

==Topicality== 
===T - cant be land grants=== 
**Investment in transportation infrastructure is capital spending**
Musick 9 – Microeconomic and Financial studies division at the Congressional Budget Office (Nathan, “Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, CBO, October 26 of 2009, http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf)//AW//

//<span style="font-size: 70%;">In this analysis,... research and development.</span>//

//**Land grants are free gifts – no capital is involved**//
//US Legal 6 – US Legal Dictionary (US Legal, “Land Grant Law & Legal Definition”, US Legal Dictionary, March 18 of 2006, http://definitions.uslegal.com/l/land-grant/)//AW

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The term 'land... the Morrill Acts.</span>


**Limits – they explode the topic – they could do any type of investment**
**Ground – key to core negative ground – the US doesn’t spend money**

===T - Investment NIB specific=== 
**Transportation Infrastructure Investment involves the purchase and construction of facilities – means the aff is effectually topical at best**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Department of Transportation 03**</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 12.8px; text-align: left;">(U.S. Department of Transportation, Bureau of Transportation Statistics, "Transportation Investment-Concepts, Data and Analysis," draft, compiled based on data from U.S. Department of Commerce (USDOC), Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), "Fixed Assets and Consumer Durables," and personal communications with BEA; and USDOC, U.S. Census Bureau, "Value of Construction Put in Place Statistics," Detailed Construction Expenditure Tables, available at [[http://www.census]]. gov, as of February 2003. [[http://www.bts.gov/publications/transportation_statistics_annual_report/2003/html/chapter_02/figure_109.html]] )</span>
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Investment in transportation.... B of this report</span>


**Vote negative:**
**Limits – any action or number of actions could eventually result in superior transportation infrastructure investment – preparing for and researching this caselist makes it impossible to be negative.**

**Ground – Effectually-topical affirmatives make the aff conditional – they lack the certainty necessary to generate counterplan competition and stable disad links.**

===T - Energy (specific to pipelines)=== 

**Pipelines are not transportation infrastructure – they are legally defined as energy infrastructure**
**US Chamber of Commerce 10**
United States Chamber of Commerce, “Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report”, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]].pdf

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Step 1 – Definition: ...energy infrastructure.</span>

**Prefer our interpretation for limits – allowing energy affs explodes the topic – makes it impossible to be neg – voter for fairness and education**

===T - cant be accessories/maintenance=== 
**A. Interpretation - Transportation infrastructure must be the underlying structures like building a road not accessories to a road like new road signs.**
**Trimbath, PhD in Economics, 11**
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Susanne, US Chamber.com [website of the US Chamber of Commerce], former Senior Research Economist in the Capital Market Studies at the Milken Institute, Senior Advisor on corporate community investment for the Business Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce, PhD in economics from NYU, 2011, “Transportation Infrastructure: paving the way,” [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructure/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf]], alp)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">The strategy applied ... Intermodal Links</span>

**B. Violation – modernization and accessories aren't topical. Building a new infrastructure would be topical but just adding to an existing infrastructure isn’t topical.**

**C. Voting issue –**
**Limits – we set a fair limit. Aff’s can build new roads, new railways, new airports, new ports or new intermodal links combined with the various investment mechanisms that creates more than 25 different possibilities for the affirmative.**

===Aspec=== 
**A) The Aff doesn’t specify the branch that implements the plan – USFG means 3 branches.**
Babylon.com, ‘7 (http://www.babylon.com/definition/United_States_federal_government/English)

<span style="font-size: 70%;">This article describes the.... executive, legislative, and judicial.</span>


**And, the agent of action test – The Aff has to specify in their plan text what is necessary for the plan to take effect. Not specifying the branch doesn’t meet since the “USFG” isn’t an agent and there wouldn’t be a political channel to implement the plan.**
Chicago Manual of Style, ‘3
(http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/CMS_FAQ/CapitalizationTitles/CapitalizationTitles32.html, accessed 10/16/07)

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The government of...the Department of State, etc.</span>


**(B) This is a voter --**
**1. CP Ground – Specifying in the plan is key to Agent CP competition and agent __comparison__ is crucial to policy education.**
Stoddard, ‘97 (Professor of law at New York University, 72 New York University Law Review 967)

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Many of my .... as what it says.</span>


**2. Aff conditionality – Not specifying in the plan allows the Aff to shift the entire meaning of the plan and undermines 1NC decision-making.**


==Specific Strategies== 
FOR OTHER TOURNAMENTS LOOK TO HANNAH STAFFORD & ADELE WATKINS WIKI

===Dowling=== 

Round 2 - Edina AS NIB Aff
1NC:
States
T - effects T
Security K
Fiscal Cliff
stimulus bad turns

2NR:
Fiscal Cliff
Stim bad


Round 3 -- Homewood Flossmoor FG - Katrina Aff
1NC:
States
Aspec
Norm K
Fiscal Cliff
util good

2NR:
Fiscal Cliff
Util


Round 6 - James Logan TK Bering Straits aff
1NC:
States
T -Land grants
Security K
Fiscal Cliff

2NR:
Security K

Doubles - Maine East HM High-Speed Rail Aff
1NC
States
Security K
Fiscal Cliff
Aspec

2NR:
Fiscal Cliff


===Lexington=== 
Round 1 vs Bronx climate hardening
1NC:
Asepc
Hagel Politics DA
Security K
States
Buy America DA

2NR:
Security


Round 4 vs Resivoir Climate hardening
1NC:
Immigration Politics DA
Security
States
Buy America DA

2NR:
Politics and case


Round 6 vs Bronx Law (Wilderson/Sexton aff)
1NC
Plagiarism CP
Framework

2NR:
Framework


Doubles vs Edgemont (electrified rails aff)
1NC
T - physical assets
States
Security K
Immigration Reform

2NR
Security


===Golden Desert=== 

Round 2 vs Bingham (Borders K aff)

1NC:
Cap K
Give back the land
Framework
politics
util

2NR:
Framework
Politics


Round 3 vs Rowland Hall AS (CCS aff)
1NC
States CP
politics
security
T - energy

2nr
politics


round 6 vs Ashland BK (icebreakers aff)
1NC:
Funding PIC -- with China relations net ben
politics
security

2nr:
funding pic -- with china relations and trade net ben



Doubles vs Bishop Guertin ID (Port dredging aff)
1NC:
T- assets/maintenance
Security
States
Politics

2nr
Security




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]