[[toc]]
=NFL 1AC= 
===Inherency=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention 1 is inherency</span>
====Vital port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a nuclear attack are high- Cost and technology aren’t barriers==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al, 6/27</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse,” New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.
<span class="Heading4Char"> </span>
====Solutions exist but drastic cuts to the Port Security Grant Program destroy port security==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of
AND
“Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Your disads are non-unique- new PSGP projects were just funded but overall funding is collapsing </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PTI, 7-9-</span>12 – Port Technology International, “Port of Oakland awarded $3.5 million in security grants,” http://www.porttechnology.org/news/port_of_oakland_awarded_3.5_million_in_security_grants/
The Port of Oakland has been allocated more than US$3.5 million
AND
down from a total allocation in FY2009 of $388.6 million.
<span class="Heading4Char"> </span>
===Plan=== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in port security through the Port Security Grant Program.</span>

===NPG=== 
====The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.
1. What is the purpose of the FY 2012 PSGP? ¶ The purpose
AND
can be provided to one of the core capabilities ¶ within the NPG.

====The NPG is critical to __coordination__ against __large-scale__, __catastrophic__ events==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].
As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD-8),
AND
you can participate. Thank you for your commitment to our national preparedness.


====The NPG is //necessary// to solving __each__ internal link==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
In accordance with PPD-8, and in coordination with Federal departments and agencies
AND
as ¶ part of the recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.

====__Cybersecurity__ is vital to prevent __escalatory__ __great power__ nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.


====Pandemics at ports outweigh on __probability__ and __size__- they can kill billions within 24 hours==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

====__Natural disasters__ threaten human extinction __faster__ than any war scenario- national readiness is imperative==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

====The __process__ of the plan is vital – it shapes __core budget decisions__ and //all// future federal assistance==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
The Goal is designed to prepare our Nation for the risks that will severely tax
AND
allow for annual adjustments based on updated priorities and our resource ¶ posture.

====Only federal investment solves; state funding create inefficiencies that destroy the NPG==== 
<span style="background-color: white;">**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Wainio, 2012</span>__** <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">(Richard, Port Director and CEO, Tampa Port Authority, “House Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response and Communications Hearing “Ensuring the Efficiency, Effectiveness and Transparency of Homeland Security Grants (Part II): Stakeholder Perspectives”, April,</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/TPADOCS-.pdf</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">)</span></span>
The plan to consolidate the Port Security Grant Program into one National Preparedness Grant Program 
AND
to create a less efficient and less focused approach to funding necessary projects.
===Terror=== 

====Attacks at US ports are //inevitable// and //quickly// cause __unprecedented__ chaos – __federal__ action is vital==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Flynn, ‘6</span> – Stephen, Ph.D.,Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.)Senior Fellow in National Security Studies at CFR, Prof @ Northeastern U, “The Continued Vulnerability of the Global Maritime Transportation System,” March 9th, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074]].
But the most serious consequence of a major terrorist attack on America’s waterfront is if
AND
. port authorities have been reluctant to make major new investments in security.


====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Seaport security is vital to preventing attacks on key Oil, Nuclear, and LNG terminals </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Most US energy power plants, critical bridges, and densely populated urban areas lay
AND
The US Coast Guard has a central role in confronting such seaborne threats.




<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Multiple Scenarios; </span>__</span>

====1. __Nuclear__ __terror__ –<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">//Hiroshima-level// detonations happen even without expertise </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abt, ‘3</span> – Ph.D., Clark C., Risk analysis prepared for US DOT/RSPA/Volpe National Transportation. “The Economic Impact of Nuclear Terrorist Attacks on Freight Transport Systems in an Age of Seaport Vulnerability,” Apr 23, [[http://www.abtassociates.com/reports/es-economic_impact_of_nuclear_terrorist_attacks.pdf]].
International terrorists have asserted their intention to acquire nuclear weapons, and have an increasing
AND
, such as the 14 th Street Bridge in DC, or midtown Manhattan

====AND It’s the most dangerous nuclear threat because deterrence fails==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘4</span> – Mohammed, political analyst, “Extinction!” al-ahram weekly, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]].
The most critical moment was the one when the Soviet Union collapsed and fragmented into
AND
When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bioterror</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> – containers are //easy// vessels for </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">high-lethality</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> bioweapons</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
There is no effective detection equipment for biological and chemical weapons. There are many
AND
cargo and empty containers should be minimized to reduce terrorism at US ports.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Human extinction</span>__</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">results</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parson, ‘6</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> – Ed, University of Michigan, “The Big One: A Review of Richard Posner’s Catastrophe: Risk and Response,” </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~parson/website/pdf/parson-jel-45-posner-catastrophe-review.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">. </span>
For his fourth risk, in case you are not scared enough, Posner turns
AND
tried to develop them. Suitable lab facilities exist in dozens of countries.

====3. __Agroterror__ – invasive species at ports //wreck// __biodiversity__ and __disease prevention__==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Leggiere, ‘10</span><span class="small">. Phil, citing a study from professors at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. “</span>Agroterror Prevention in Need of Overhaul,” HS Today, 9-4, [[http://www.hstoday.us/content/view/10085/149]]
When one thinks of border protection thoughts naturally focus on illegal immigration, drugs,
AND
law enforcement problems, and the early detection and control of infectious diseases.

====Diversity loss will cross the tipping point of irreversibility, causing global extinction==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Walsh, ‘10</span>. Bryan, senior writer for TIME magazine, covering energy and the environment, previously Tokyo bureau chief for TIME. “Wildlife: A Global Convention on Biodiversity Opens in Japan, But Can It Make a Difference?” Ecocentric Blog @ TIME, 10-18, http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2010/10/18/wildlife-a-global-convention-on-biodiversity-opens-in-japan-but-can-it-make-a-difference/#ixzz131wU6CSp
The story of non-human life on the planet Earth over the past few
AND
us. We're losing nature. And that loss really is forever.


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">4. __Oil__ – Attacks destroy __refineries__ and __three billion tons__ of oil </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">CFR, ‘6</span> – Council on Foreign Relations, backgrounder. “Targets for Terrorism: Ports,” January, http://www.cfr.org/port-security/targets-terrorism-ports/p10215.
Could terrorists attack U.S. ports?¶ Yes. Experts warn that U
AND
-five Islamist extremists entered the United States by hiding in shipping containers.

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">That __spikes__ prices __overnight__ – barriers are //easily// overcome</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">USA Today, ’11 </span>– “Oil tanker terror hijacks easy, attacks complex,” 5-21, http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2011-05-21-terror-plot-oil-tankers_n.htm
The FBI and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued a confidential
AND
pull off a terror attack on a supertanker, especially in Asian waters.

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Oil spikes produce __great power nuclear wars__ with a __high probability__ of escalation </span> 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Qasem, ‘7</span> – Islam Yasin, Masters in IR from Columbia, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” 7-9, http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm]
If the conflict-ridden and oil-rich Middle East today is crucial to
AND
before reaching the zenith of a disaster which is already in the making.

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">5. __Meltdowns__ – nuclear plants are //extremely// vulnerable to __catastrophic__ terror attacks</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Rockwell, ’12</span> – Mark, “Study says nuclear plant designs need stepped-up attention to security,” Government Security Magazine, [[http://www.gsnmagazine.com/node/25600?c=infrastructure_protection]].
While protections for nuclear plants from possible terror attacks have improved dramatically since 9/
AND
environment. Zirconium is the material commonly used in cladding the fuel rods.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Meltdowns cause __extinction__ – global contamination will be __uncontainable__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Lendman, ‘11</span>. Stephen, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” 3-13, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]].
"As a physician, I contend that nuclear technology threatens life on our planet
AND
, Canada, Mexico, Central America, and parts of South America.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">LNG</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;"> – insufficient __funding__ makes liquid natural gas attacks __catastrophic__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Kaplan, ‘6</span> – CFR Security Analyst, “Liquefied Natural Gas: A Potential Terrorist Target?” Council on Foreign Relations, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810%23p3|http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3]].
Are LNG ships and terminals potential terrorist targets?¶ Yes, because of LNG's explosive
AND
were designed primarily for safety patrols, not armed combat," he says.

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">LNG explosions outweigh nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Lovin and Lovin, ‘1</span> – Amory B. Lovin, Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute, and L. Hunter Lovin, President – National Capitalism and Co-Founder – Rocky Mountain Institute, “Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security”, 2001, [[http://www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2FDownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3DBrittlePower3PtCombo.pdf%26title%3DBrit|www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2FDownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3DBrittlePower3PtCombo.pdf%26title%3DBrit]]
About nine percent of such a tankerload of LNG will probably, if spilled onto
AND
of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.





=Harvard 1AC= 

===Inherency=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention 1 is inherency</span>
====Vital port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a WMD attack are high- Cost and technology aren’t barriers==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al, ‘12</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse,” New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing

AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.

====Solutions exist but drastic cuts to the Port Security Grant Program destroy port security==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of
AND
“Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”


====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Your disads are non-unique- new PSGP projects were just funded but overall funding is collapsing </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PTI, 7-9-</span>12 – Port Technology International, “Port of Oakland awarded $3.5 million in security grants,” http://www.porttechnology.org/news/port_of_oakland_awarded_3.5_million_in_security_grants/
The Port of Oakland has been allocated more than US$3.5 million
AND
down from a total allocation in FY2009 of $388.6 million.

====Link turn – Port Security is overwhelmingly popular==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCarter, 7-2</span>-12 – Mickey, “Aviation, Port Security Bills Enjoy Bipartisan Support From House Lawmakers,” Homeland Security Today, http://www.hstoday.us/briefings/today-s-news-analysis/single-article/aviation-port-security-bills-enjoy-bipartisan-support-from-house-lawmakers/8774d00b80793d7b125324dc9dad3510.html

Democrats applauded last week the passage by the House of several homeland security bills designed
AND
this infrastructure to the global supply chain cannot be overstated," he concluded.

===Plan=== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in port security through the Port Security Grant Program.</span>

===NPG=== 
====The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.
1. What is the purpose of the FY 2012 PSGP? ¶ The purpose
AND
can be provided to one of the core capabilities ¶ within the NPG.

====The NPG is critical to __coordination__ against __large-scale__, __catastrophic__ events==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].
As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD-8),
AND

you can participate. Thank you for your commitment to our national preparedness.


====The NPG is //necessary// to solving __each__ internal link==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
In accordance with PPD-8, and in coordination with Federal departments and agencies
AND
as ¶ part of the recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.

====__Cybersecurity__ is vital to prevent __escalatory__ __great power__ nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.


====Pandemics at ports outweigh on __probability__ and __size__- they can kill billions within 24 hours==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND

for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

====__Natural disasters__ threaten human extinction __faster__ than any war scenario- national readiness is imperative==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

====The __process__ of the plan is vital – it shapes __core budget decisions__ and //all// future federal assistance==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
The Goal is designed to prepare our Nation for the risks that will severely tax
AND
allow for annual adjustments based on updated priorities and our resource ¶ posture.

====Only federal investment solves; state funding create inefficiencies that destroy the NPG==== 
<span style="background-color: white;">**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Wainio, 2012</span>__** <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">(Richard, Port Director and CEO, Tampa Port Authority, “House Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response and Communications Hearing “Ensuring the Efficiency, Effectiveness and Transparency of Homeland Security Grants (Part II): Stakeholder Perspectives”, April,</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/TPADOCS-.pdf</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">)</span></span>
The plan to consolidate the Port Security Grant Program into one National Preparedness Grant Program
AND
to create a less efficient and less focused approach to funding necessary projects.

===Terror=== 

====Attacks at US ports are //inevitable// and //quickly// cause __unprecedented__ chaos – __federal__ action is vital==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Flynn, ‘6</span> – Stephen, Ph.D.,Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.)Senior Fellow in National Security Studies at CFR, Prof @ Northeastern U, “The Continued Vulnerability of the Global Maritime Transportation System,” March 9th, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074]].
But the most serious consequence of a major terrorist attack on America’s waterfront is if
AND
. port authorities have been reluctant to make major new investments in security.


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Three scenarios;</span>

====1. __Nuclear__ __terror__ –<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">//Hiroshima-level// detonations happen even without expertise </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abt, ‘3</span> – Ph.D., Clark C., Risk analysis prepared for US DOT/RSPA/Volpe National Transportation. “The Economic Impact of Nuclear Terrorist Attacks on Freight Transport Systems in an Age of Seaport Vulnerability,” Apr 23, [[http://www.abtassociates.com/reports/es-economic_impact_of_nuclear_terrorist_attacks.pdf]].
International terrorists have asserted their intention to acquire nuclear weapons, and have an increasing
AND
, such as the 14 th Street Bridge in DC, or midtown Manhattan

====AND It’s the most dangerous nuclear threat because deterrence fails==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘4</span> – Mohammed, political analyst, “Extinction!” al-ahram weekly, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]].
The most critical moment was the one when the Soviet Union collapsed and fragmented into
AND
When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2. LNG- Seaport security is vital to preventing attacks on key LNG terminals </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Most US energy power plants, critical bridges, and densely populated urban areas lay
AND
The US Coast Guard has a central role in confronting such seaborne threats.

====<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Recent attacks in Algeria proves Energy Terminals are terrorist’s highest priority</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">UPI 2/13 </span>(http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Energy-Resources/2013/02/13/New-wave-of-unrest-imperils-Mideast-energy/UPI-26721360782108/?spt=hs&or=er, New Wave of Unrest Imperils Mideast Energy)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The consequences of </span>the January takeover of an Algerian natural gas complex by Islamist militants could be far-reaching because it endangers supply<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, the International Energy Agency warns.</span>
"A new wave of political unrest in Africa is clouding the outlook of a growing number of producers," the IEA, the West's energy watchdog, in its latest monthly report. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"Following </span>the recent attack on an Algerian gas facility<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, companies have begun to reassess their security arrangements in the region."</span>
A total of 37 foreign workers were killed in the four-day siege of In Amenas<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. The closure of the plant</span>, deep in the Sahara Desert of southeastern Algeria near the Libyan border, has cut Algerian production by some 57,000 barrels per day<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of liquids and 315 billion cubic feet a year</span>, the agency reported.
That in itself isn't necessarily critical in terms of global consumption and cuts in Saudi


AND
less than the pre-war level of 1.6 million bpd.


====LNG explosions outweigh nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Lovin and Lovin, ‘1</span> – Amory B. Lovin, Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute, and L. Hunter Lovin, President – National Capitalism and Co-Founder – Rocky Mountain Institute, “Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security”, 2001, [[http://www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2FDownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3DBrittlePower3PtCombo.pdf%26title%3DBrit|www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2FDownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3DBrittlePower3PtCombo.pdf%26title%3DBrit]]
About nine percent of such a tankerload of LNG will probably, if spilled onto
AND
tenths of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs
====3. __Agroterror__ – invasive species at ports //wreck// __biodiversity__ and __disease prevention__==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Leggiere, ‘10</span><span class="small">. Phil, citing a study from professors at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. “</span>Agroterror Prevention in Need of Overhaul,” HS Today, 9-4, [[http://www.hstoday.us/content/view/10085/149]]
When one thinks of border protection thoughts naturally focus on illegal immigration, drugs,
AND
law enforcement problems, and the early detection and control of infectious diseases.

====Diversity loss will cross the tipping point of irreversibility, causing global extinction==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Walsh, ‘10</span>. Bryan, senior writer for TIME magazine, covering energy and the environment, previously Tokyo bureau chief for TIME. “Wildlife: A Global Convention on Biodiversity Opens in Japan, But Can It Make a Difference?” Ecocentric Blog @ TIME, 10-18, http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2010/10/18/wildlife-a-global-convention-on-biodiversity-opens-in-japan-but-can-it-make-a-difference/#ixzz131wU6CSp
The story of non-human life on the planet Earth over the past few

AND
us. We're losing nature. And that loss really is forever.


====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AND independently-- al Qaeda maritime terror is unique – even if it fails it shatters the global economy </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allen, ‘8</span> – United States Admiral in the Coast Guard, Thad, “Friend or Foe? Tough to Tell,” U.S. Naval Institute, October in USNI.ORG, Reprinted at [[http://www.pacnwest.org/docs/friendorfoe.pdf|www.pacnwest.org/docs/friendorfoe.pdf]].
In keeping with the traditions of the sea-going services, I generally start
AND
seeking mass casualties or severe economic impact, this environment offers many targets.

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Growth prevents nuclear warfare – history proves </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Mead 9</span> – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
If current market turmoil seriously damaged the performance and prospects of India and China,
AND
policy far more severely than any mistake made by George W. Bush.
It's not just the great powers whose trajectories have been affected by the crash.
AND
global economic downturn force the government to rein in its expansionary fiscal policy.
All this has weakened Ahmadinejad at home and Iran abroad. Iranian officials must balance
AND
negotiations with Iran (and Syria) from a position of enhanced strength.

Every crisis is different, but there seem to be reasons why, over time
AND
market economy within an appropriately liberal legal and political framework are relatively strong.
But, in many other countries where capitalism rubs people the wrong way, this
AND
are quick to decide that capitalism is a failure and look for alternatives.
So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work;
AND
the consequences of a financial crisis than more established firms in wealthier societies.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a result, developing countries and </span>countries where capitalism has relatively recent and shallow roots tend to suffer greater economic and political damage when crisis strikes<span style="font-size: 8pt;">--as, inevitably, it does. And, consequently, financial crises often reinforce rather than challenge the global distribution of power and wealth. This may be happening yet again.</span>
None of which means that we can just sit back and enjoy the recession.
AND
list of wars is almost as long as the list of financial crises.
Bad economic times can //breed wars//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Europe was a pretty peaceful place in 1928, but the Depression poisoned German public opinion and helped bring Adolf Hitler to power. If the current crisis turns into a depression, what rough beasts might start slouching toward Moscow, Karachi, Beijing, or New Delhi to be born?</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States may not, yet, decline, but, </span>if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

===Trafficking=== 
====Ensuring available PSGP funds is key to stop the trafficking of people and narcotics.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 2011</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span> AAPA. "10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports." //-- ALEXANDRIA, Va., Sept. 1, 2011 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ --//. American Association of Port Authorities, 1 Sept. 2011. Web. 24 June 2012. <http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html>.
Among the materials Navy SEALS found in Osama Bin Laden's Pakistan hideout were plans showing
AND
job creation and economic prosperity, and important partners in our national defense."
====Sex trafficking is the ultimate form of dehumanization==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DeMarco 7</span> – [Caitlin, intern in the Ronald Reagan Memorial Internship Program at Concerned Womyn for America Jul 12, [[http://www.cwfa.org/articles/13418/BLI/dotcommentary/index.htm%5dcn|http://www.cwfa.org/articles/13418/BLI/dotcommentary/index.htm]cn]]
We have all heard the catchy song lyrics about "what happens in Mexico"
AND
"Exploiters must be stigmatized, prosecuted, and squeezed out of existence."
====Dehumanization controls genocide, slavery and exploitation==== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Katheryn </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Katz</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Law, 19</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">97</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> "The Clonal Child: Procreative Liberty and Asexual Reproduction," Lexis-Nexis</span>
It is undeniable that throughout human history dominant and oppressive groups have committed unspeakable wrongs
AND
of womyn, and the social Darwinists' theory justifying indifference to the poverty¶

====We have a moral obligation to reject rape – it’s a type of sexual violence that’s in the spirit of murder and destroys value to life.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wing 97</span>.(PROF LAW U IOWA, CONCEPTUALIZING VIOLENCE, 60 ALB. L. REV. 943)
The multiple effect of violence on these womyn, simultaneously coming from outside and inside
AND
life or of an entire culture." 42 and misery of others. \



=Evanston 1AC= 
**Inherency**

Vital port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a WMD attack are high- Cost and technology aren’t barriers
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al, 6-27</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse,” New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.

Solutions exist but drastic cuts to the Port Security Grant Program destroy port security
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of
AND

“Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”


Your disads are non-unique- new PSGP projects were just funded but overall funding is collapsing
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PTI, 7-9-</span>12 – Port Technology International, “Port of Oakland awarded $3.5 million in security grants,” http://www.porttechnology.org/news/port_of_oakland_awarded_3.5_million_in_security_grants/
The Port of Oakland has been allocated more than US$3.5 million
AND
down from a total allocation in FY2009 of $388.6 million.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obama’s investing political capital in //limited// disbursement of PSGP funds now </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mayle, 7-20</span>-12 – Mary Carr, “GPA gets added security grant funds,” Savannah Now, [[http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds#.UCChA_ZmTnQ|http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds#.UCChA_ZmTnQ]].
The Georgia Ports Authority has been awarded nearly a half-million dollars in federal funds
AND
certain South Carolina lawmakers and commission members off Georgia’s case? Stay tuned.

===Plan=== 
<span style="font-size: 17px;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in port security through the Port Security Grant Program.</span>
===NPG=== 
**Advantage 1 is the NPG**
The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.
1. What is the purpose of the FY 2012 PSGP? ¶ The purpose
AND

can be provided to one of the core capabilities ¶ within the NPG.

The NPG is critical to coordination against large-scale, catastrophic events
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].
As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD-8),
AND
you can participate. Thank you for your commitment to our national preparedness.


The NPG is necessary to solving each internal link
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
In accordance with PPD-8, and in coordination with Federal departments and agencies
AND
as ¶ part of the recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.

Cybersecurity is vital to prevent escalatory great power nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND

its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.


Pandemics at ports outweigh on probability and size- they can kill billions within 24 hours
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

Natural disasters threaten human extinction faster than any war scenario- national readiness is imperative
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

The process of the plan is vital – it shapes core budget decisions and all future federal assistance
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
The Goal is designed to prepare our Nation for the risks that will severely tax
AND
allow for annual adjustments based on updated priorities and our resource ¶ posture.

===1ac – Terror=== 


<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention 3</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> is __Terror__ –</span>

====Attacks at US ports are //inevitable// and //quickly// cause __unprecedented__ chaos – __federal__ action is vital==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn, ‘6</span> – Stephen, Ph.D.,Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.)Senior Fellow in National Security Studies at CFR, Prof @ Northeastern U, “The Continued Vulnerability of the Global Maritime Transportation System,” March 9th, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074]].
But the most serious consequence of a major terrorist attack on America’s waterfront is if
AND
. port authorities have been reluctant to make major new investments in security.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Three scenarios</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">;</span>

====1. __Nuclear__ __terror__ –<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">//Hiroshima-level// detonations happen even without expertise</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abt, ‘3</span> – Ph.D., Clark C., Risk analysis prepared for US DOT/RSPA/Volpe National Transportation. “The Economic Impact of Nuclear Terrorist Attacks on Freight Transport Systems in an Age of Seaport Vulnerability,” Apr 23, [[http://www.abtassociates.com/reports/es-economic_impact_of_nuclear_terrorist_attacks.pdf]].
International terrorists have asserted their intention to acquire nuclear weapons, and have an increasing
AND

, such as the 14 th Street Bridge in DC, or midtown Manhattan

====AND It’s the most dangerous nuclear threat because deterrence fails==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘4</span> – Mohammed, political analyst, “Extinction!” al-ahram weekly, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]].
The most critical moment was the one when the Soviet Union collapsed and fragmented into
AND
When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2. Bioterror – containers are //easy// vessels for high-lethality bioweapons</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
There is no effective detection equipment for biological and chemical weapons. There are many
AND
cargo and empty containers should be minimized to reduce terrorism at US ports.

====Human extinction results==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parson, ‘6</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> – Ed, University of Michigan, “The Big One: A Review of Richard Posner’s Catastrophe: Risk and Response,” [[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~parson/website/pdf/parson-jel-45-posner-catastrophe-review.pdf]].</span>
For his fourth risk, in case you are not scared enough, Posner turns
AND
tried to develop them. Suitable lab facilities exist in dozens of countries.

====3. __Agroterror__ – invasive species at ports //wreck// __biodiversity__ and __disease prevention__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Leggiere, ‘10</span><span class="small">. Phil, citing a study from professors at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. “</span>Agroterror Prevention in Need of Overhaul,” HS Today, 9-4, [[http://www.hstoday.us/content/view/10085/149]]
When one thinks of border protection thoughts naturally focus on illegal immigration, drugs,
AND
law enforcement problems, and the early detection and control of infectious diseases.

====Diversity loss will cross the tipping point of irreversibility, causing global extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walsh, ‘10</span>. Bryan, senior writer for TIME magazine, covering energy and the environment, previously Tokyo bureau chief for TIME. “Wildlife: A Global Convention on Biodiversity Opens in Japan, But Can It Make a Difference?” Ecocentric Blog @ TIME, 10-18, http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2010/10/18/wildlife-a-global-convention-on-biodiversity-opens-in-japan-but-can-it-make-a-difference/#ixzz131wU6CSp
The story of non-human life on the planet Earth over the past few
AND
forgive us. We're losing nature. And that loss really is forever.



====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">It’s reverse-causal – the plan leads to new tech that independently solves</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frittelli, ‘5</span> – John F., Specialist in Transportation Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress,” May 27, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]].
Enhanced security has benefits as well as costs. Many experts see economic benefits to
AND
will also speed the customs filing process for U.S. importers.

===Contention 3 is Sex Trafficking=== 

====Ensuring available PSGP funds is key to stop the trafficking of people and narcotics.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 2011</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span> AAPA. "10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports." //-- ALEXANDRIA, Va., Sept. 1, 2011 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ --//. American Association of Port Authorities, 1 Sept. 2011. Web. 24 June 2012. <http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html>.
Among the materials Navy SEALS found in Osama Bin Laden's Pakistan hideout were plans showing
AND
job creation and economic prosperity, and important partners in our national defense."
====<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> DeMarco 7</span> – [Caitlin, intern in the Ronald Reagan Memorial Internship Program at Concerned Womyn for America Jul 12, [[http://www.cwfa.org/articles/13418/BLI/dotcommentary/index.htm%5dcn|http://www.cwfa.org/articles/13418/BLI/dotcommentary/index.htm]cn]]Sex trafficking is the ultimate form of dehumanization==== 
We have all heard the catchy song lyrics about "what happens in Mexico" staying in Mexico
AND
in declaring, "Exploiters must be stigmatized, prosecuted, and squeezed out of existence."
====Dehumanization controls genocide, slavery and exploitation==== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Katheryn </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Katz</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Law, 19</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">97</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> "The Clonal Child: Procreative Liberty and Asexual Reproduction," Lexis-Nexis</span>
It is undeniable that throughout human history dominant and oppressive groups have committed unspeakable
AND
of womyn, and the social Darwinists' theory justifying indifference to the poverty¶

====We have a moral obligation to reject rape – it’s a type of sexual violence that’s in the spirit of murder and destroys value to life.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wing 97</span>.(PROF LAW U IOWA, CONCEPTUALIZING VIOLENCE, 60 ALB. L. REV. 943)
The multiple effect of violence on these womyn, simultaneously coming from outside and inside their culture,
AND
of life or of an entire culture." 42 and misery of others.


=MBA 1AC= 
For neg cites e-mail danobe1@nths219.org and aff cites e-mail kargol1@nths219.org

==Affirmative== 
===Inherency=== 

Vital port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a WMD attack are high- Cost and technology aren’t barriers
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al, 6-27</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse,” New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.

Solutions exist but drastic cuts to the Port Security Grant Program destroy port security
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of
AND
“Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”


Your disads are non-unique- new PSGP projects were just funded but overall funding is collapsing
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PTI, 7-9-</span>12 – Port Technology International, “Port of Oakland awarded $3.5 million in security grants,” http://www.porttechnology.org/news/port_of_oakland_awarded_3.5_million_in_security_grants/
The Port of Oakland has been allocated more than US$3.5 million
AND
down from a total allocation in FY2009 of $388.6 million.

Port Security is overwhelmingly popular and bipartisan even if it’s expensive
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCarter, 7-2</span>-12 – Mickey, “Aviation, Port Security Bills Enjoy Bipartisan Support From House Lawmakers,” Homeland Security Today, http://www.hstoday.us/briefings/today-s-news-analysis/single-article/aviation-port-security-bills-enjoy-bipartisan-support-from-house-lawmakers/8774d00b80793d7b125324dc9dad3510.html
Democrats applauded last week the passage by the House of several homeland security bills designed
AND
this infrastructure to the global supply chain cannot be overstated," he concluded.




===Plan=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in port security through the Port Security Grant Program.</span>

===NPG=== 
**Advantage 1 is the NPG**
The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.
1. What is the purpose of the FY 2012 PSGP? ¶ The purpose
AND
can be provided to one of the core capabilities ¶ within the NPG.

The NPG is critical to coordination against large-scale, catastrophic events
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].
As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD-8),
AND
you can participate. Thank you for your commitment to our national preparedness.


The NPG is necessary to solving each internal link
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
In accordance with PPD-8, and in coordination with Federal departments and agencies
AND
as ¶ part of the recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.

Cybersecurity is vital to prevent escalatory great power nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.


Pandemics at ports outweigh on probability and size- they can kill billions within 24 hours
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

Natural disasters threaten human extinction faster than any war scenario- national readiness is imperative
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

The process of the plan is vital – it shapes core budget decisions and all future federal assistance
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
The Goal is designed to prepare our Nation for the risks that will severely tax
AND
allow for annual adjustments based on updated priorities and our resource ¶ posture.

===1ac – Terror=== 

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention 3</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> is __Terror__ – </span>

====Attacks at US ports are //inevitable// and //quickly// cause __unprecedented__ chaos – __federal__ action is vital==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn, ‘6</span> – Stephen, Ph.D.,Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.)Senior Fellow in National Security Studies at CFR, Prof @ Northeastern U, “The Continued Vulnerability of the Global Maritime Transportation System,” March 9th, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074]].
But the most serious consequence of a major terrorist attack on America’s waterfront is if
AND
. port authorities have been reluctant to make major new investments in security.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Three scenarios</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">;</span>

====1. __Nuclear__ __terror__ –<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">//Hiroshima-level// detonations happen even without expertise </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abt, ‘3</span> – Ph.D., Clark C., Risk analysis prepared for US DOT/RSPA/Volpe National Transportation. “The Economic Impact of Nuclear Terrorist Attacks on Freight Transport Systems in an Age of Seaport Vulnerability,” Apr 23, [[http://www.abtassociates.com/reports/es-economic_impact_of_nuclear_terrorist_attacks.pdf]].
International terrorists have asserted their intention to acquire nuclear weapons, and have an increasing
AND
, such as the 14 th Street Bridge in DC, or midtown Manhattan

====AND It’s the most dangerous nuclear threat because deterrence fails==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘4</span> – Mohammed, political analyst, “Extinction!” al-ahram weekly, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]].
The most critical moment was the one when the Soviet Union collapsed and fragmented into
AND
When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2. Bioterror – containers are //easy// vessels for high-lethality bioweapons</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
There is no effective detection equipment for biological and chemical weapons. There are many
AND
cargo and empty containers should be minimized to reduce terrorism at US ports.

====Human extinction results==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parson, ‘6</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> – Ed, University of Michigan, “The Big One: A Review of Richard Posner’s Catastrophe: Risk and Response,” [[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~parson/website/pdf/parson-jel-45-posner-catastrophe-review.pdf]]. </span>
For his fourth risk, in case you are not scared enough, Posner turns
AND
tried to develop them. Suitable lab facilities exist in dozens of countries.

====3. __Agroterror__ – invasive species at ports //wreck// __biodiversity__ and __disease prevention__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Leggiere, ‘10</span><span class="small">. Phil, citing a study from professors at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. “</span>Agroterror Prevention in Need of Overhaul,” HS Today, 9-4, [[http://www.hstoday.us/content/view/10085/149]]
When one thinks of border protection thoughts naturally focus on illegal immigration, drugs,
AND
law enforcement problems, and the early detection and control of infectious diseases.

====Diversity loss will cross the tipping point of irreversibility, causing global extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walsh, ‘10</span>. Bryan, senior writer for TIME magazine, covering energy and the environment, previously Tokyo bureau chief for TIME. “Wildlife: A Global Convention on Biodiversity Opens in Japan, But Can It Make a Difference?” Ecocentric Blog @ TIME, 10-18, http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2010/10/18/wildlife-a-global-convention-on-biodiversity-opens-in-japan-but-can-it-make-a-difference/#ixzz131wU6CSp
The story of non-human life on the planet Earth over the past few
AND
forgive us. We're losing nature. And that loss really is forever.


====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">It’s reverse-causal – the plan leads to new tech that independently solves </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frittelli, ‘5</span> – John F., Specialist in Transportation Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress,” May 27, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]].
Enhanced security has benefits as well as costs. Many experts see economic benefits to
AND
will also speed the customs filing process for U.S. importers.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">We //don’t// need to //eliminate// terror, only minimize risk </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Terrorism is a multi-dimensional risk that will probably never be eliminated with limited
AND
dirty bomb or a weapon of mass destruction arrives at a US seaport.



=Neg Strats= 
**You can ask us for any specific strats against your aff before the round or e-mail danobe1@nths219.org**
Bonds CP+Politics
P3's+Politics
Cap K
T Its
Coercion DA+Case
T Physical(vs. Data Encyrption)
Manhattan Project(vs. CCS)

==MBA Strategies== 

Round 1 v. Berk Prep(NIB)- Cap K
Round 3 v. Maine East(HSR)- Bonds CP+Politics(Sequestration)
Round 5 v. I forgot(Renewable Rail)- P3's and Politics