[[toc]]
Excuse us for being tech deficient if you can't find stuff easily. we will do our best.

for cites from Chattahoochee please visit [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Johns Creek (GA) - Marcus Azimi & Chelsea Thorpe|this page]] ( Chelsea was with a new partner)

Email Chelsea for cites (chelseathorpe97@gmail.com). (Still waiting for a joke)

=Aff= 
==**Wake**== 
===**1AC**=== 
**Contention 1: Duck**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The national highway system was created as a mechanism for evacuation from nuclear war</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Squires 9</span>**
Richard, The Interstate Sprawl System, http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Interstate-Sprawl-Syst-by-Richard-Squires-090112-110.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The coup de grace came from the ... as joyful as a bureaucratic picnic</span>

**Nuclear defense uses the idea of all hazards planning to create an apparent affinity between natural disasters and nuclear exchange**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Clarke 99</span>**
Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 73-4
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The idea of "solving problems" i... hurricanes, earthquakes, and so forth.</span>

**The apparent affinity between nuclear war and natural disasters facilitates evacuation planning, this planning is a way to pretend that we can control the uncontrollable**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Clarke 99</span>**
Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 98-100
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Once an affinity is created...</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">social conflict, the topic of the next chapter.</span>


**This normalizes nuclear war and allows for the creation of artificially constructed “nuclear expertise”**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Clarke 99</span>**
Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 97-8
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Folding natural disasters and nuclear attack into the same category ...reliable, that it can be drawn upon</span>

**These evacuation plans legitimize nuclear war and create a system of rationality that justifies new wars, torture and terror to be unleashed on the enemy de jour**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dudely 7</span>**
Michael, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg, Theory & Event, 10:2, Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">20. In his 1999 book, Mission Improbable: ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> foray beyond received conventional wisdom is viewed as unthinkable.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**Thus: Vote aff to increase our intellectual investment in transportation infrastructure by recognizing that nuclear evacuation plans legitimize unnecessary risks**

**Contention two: Cover**

**These plans to use freeways to evacuate are fantasy documents, they aren’t intended to be used but serve a symbolic and rhetorical purpose in order to control the frame of debate, convincing the public that the risks our leaders take in our name are acceptable, while at the same time determining who can and who can’t speak on the issue of nuclear weapons. This system results in threat construction and risks annihilation. Voting Aff ruptures current politics and enables new ways of talking about the nuclear complex**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Clarke 99</span>**
Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 167-171
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A short while ago I claimed that ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> frankly that they can not control the uncontrollable</span>

**Nuclear weapons play a role in our everyday lives, highways are just the most obvious marker, the entirety of the national infrastructure is built around the nuclear-industrial complex, causing massive deaths world-wide**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Masco 6</span>**
Joesph, Prof of Anthropology, U of Chicago, The Nuclear Borderlands, pg 24-7
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The strange new intimacy of life in the nuclear age is ...</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">has engendered new tactile experiences of everyday life in the United States, and with them, new psychosocial realities.</span>

**The role of the ballot should be to vote for the team that best challenges nuclear weapons in our everyday lives.**
**Now is the key time to challenge the nuclear complex that we encounter every day without realizing it. Your ballot re-writes the history of the nuclear age**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Masco 6</span>**
Joesph, Prof of Anthropology, U of Chicago, The Nuclear Borderlands, pg 3-5
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The “unthinkability” of the nuclear age has right ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">and an anthropology of American power in the twenty-first century.</span>

===Case Extensions=== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Nuclear statism must be resisted, the impact is the possibility of extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Kateb 86</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">George Kateb is a professor of politics at Princeton, Spring 1986, Dissent “Nuclear Weapons and Individual Rights” pg. 161-172</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">State-activism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are, of course, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the police-state...</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> the unwanted and denied possibility of extinction</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 110%;">We must understand the way that nuclear weapons affect our everyday lives, otherwise they will be structured by the infrastructure of extinction, resulting in marginalizaton</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Masco 6</span>**

Joesph, Prof of Anthropology, U of Chicago, The Nuclear Borderlands, pg 1

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The nuclear age began in earnest in New Mexico</span>...<span style="font-size: 11pt;">as the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">communally marginalized and the individually abject</span>.

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Individuals are key to solving</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Krieger 7 </span>**(David, President of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, May 17, , “Responsibility in an Era of Consequences.” http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2007/05/17_krieger_Responsibility_In_An_Era.htm TBC 6/30/10)
The inaugural meeting of the World Future Council ...for the elimination of these instruments of annihilation.”


**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Nuclear statism must be resisted, the impact is the possibility of extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Kateb 86</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">George Kateb is a professor of politics at Princeton, Spring 1986, Dissent “Nuclear Weapons and Individual Rights” pg. 161-172</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">State-activism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are, of course, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the police-state. tyranny. ...</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">with that, the unwanted and denied possibility of extinction</span>//

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism/Heteronormativity </span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Civil defense is set up in a eugenic fashion that defines all of humanity according to whiteness and heteronormativity</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Preston 8</span>**
John, Institute of Education University of London, Protect and Survive: ‘whiteness’ and the middle-class family in civil defence pedagogies
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">That civil defence pedagogies exist to save ‘...reinforced by both their whiteness</span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> and their class position.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Investigating the role of nuclear evacuation and nuclear weapons in our everyday lives is an important site to challenge this</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Preston 8</span>**
John, Institute of Education University of London, Protect and Survive: ‘whiteness’ and the middle-class family in civil defence pedagogies
<span style="color: #292526; font-family: TimesNewRomanPS,serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">Materially, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the conditions in which white suburban ... and participants in these enactments.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Heteronormative whiteness results in catastrophic war and imperialist domination</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Winnubst 6,</span>** Shannon (Ph.D. in philosophy from The Pennsylvania State) Queering Freedom. p 5 AJM

T<span style="font-size: 11pt;">his is the domination and violence of our ...</span> modernity and phallicized whiteness, that this text moves.

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Forget Hiroshima</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chattopadhyay, 12</span>**
Kunal, aug 6, [[http://kunal-radicalblogger.blogspot.com/2012/08/remembering-hiroshima-fight-nuclear.html]]
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Even if all the words about Hiroshima ..next generation, and by fighting against both.</span>

**<span class="cite">Krieger 3</span>**
David, President of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, Aug 1, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2003/08/01_krieger_remembering.htm

Here is a description<span style="font-size: 8pt;">from a pamphlet published </span><span class="underline">by ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> management of the US nuclear weapons laboratories.</span>


===A2: Cap Kritik=== 

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">The threat of urban destruction is used to form new modes of capital accumulation, highway evacuation uniquely proves this</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Dudely 7</span>**

Michael, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg, Theory & Event, 10:2, Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">What this points to</span>is <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the ... devastated by Bush Administration policies.</span>
==Chattahoochee== 
===1AC=== 

**Contention 1 is __No Oil__**


**Oil prices will double within the next decade – our evidence is future predictive**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Macalister 12</span> [Terry Macalister – Editor at the Guardian and Energy Analyst, “Oil prices could double by 2022, IMF warned”, May 13, 2012, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/may/13/oil-price-doubling-decade-imf]], Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The</span> International Monetary Fund (<span style="font-size: 11pt;">IMF</span>) <span style="font-size: 11pt;">has been warned ...</span> growth had "stopped its declining trend".


**Perception is key- every change in the US market is watched**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roberts 4</span> [Paul Roberts has written about resource economics and politics for numerous publications, including the Los Angeles Times, the Washington Post, and Rolling Stone, and lectures frequently on business and environmental issues. – “The End of Oil: On the Edge of a Perilous New World”, pg. 95, Chetan]


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Within the oil world, </span>**__no decision__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> of any significance ... its mind whether to be bearish or bullish</span>.”

**The perception of a change in demand will change the price**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kosakowski 11</span> [Paul has a degree in Physics from Southern Connecticut State University, he began investing in 1998 and analyzes the markets from a perspective that includes both Cycles and Elliot Wave analysis combined with traditional technical indicators, such as MACD and Stochastics. “What Determines Oil Prices”, June 6th, 2011, [[http://www.investopedia.com/articles/economics/08/determining-oil-prices.asp#axzz1zuSutPpH|http://www.investopedia.com/articles/economics/08/determining-oil-prices.asp#axzz1zuSutPpH]], Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Not quite. The price of oil as we know it is actually ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">are sold</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (possibly sold short as well).</span>

**A decrease in US oil dependence collapses global oil prices**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Georgia 1</span> [Paul Georgia - Environmental Policy Analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, “Energy Independence: It Doesn’t Work,” [[http://www.cei.org/gencon/019,02192.cfm]], Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standard, for instance, w...of wind and solar power, which they wish to foist upon the American people.</span>

**//Scenario 1 is __Iran__//**

**Iran is getting closer to developing a nuclear weapon – a new round of sanctions are being applied to halt their progress**
**CNN 12** [“Report: Iran builds, tests first nuclear fuel rod”, January 2nd, 2012, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/01/world/meast/iran-nuclear-rod/index.html]], Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Iran built its first nuclear f...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> suspected nuclear weapons program.</span>

**But sanctions won’t be effective as long as oil revenue cushions the effect for Iran – a fall in oil prices causes Iranian economic collapses and forces them to give up the bomb**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sheinin 12</span> [Yacov Sheinin - President of Economic Models Ltd, “Low oil prices rather than an embargo will hurt Iran most,” 1/24/12, Globes, [[http://www.globes.co.il/serveen/globes/docview.asp?did=1000718550&fid=4488,]] Chetan]


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The EU, which represents 500 million people...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">so it will be </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">forced to stop developing the Bomb</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

**Iranian proliferation leads to pre-emptive nuclear strikes between Iran and Israel, causes Israeli disclosure, and broader Middle East proliferation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edelman et al 11</span> [Eric S. Edelman is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. Andrew F. Krepinevich is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran”, Foreign Affairs; Jan/Feb2011, Vol. 90 Issue 1, p66-81, 16p, Chetan]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Given Israel's status as an assumed...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">domestic pressure, or all three.</span>


**Israel-Iran war ignites World War III – threatens all of humankind**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Coughlin 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Telegraph's Executive Foreign Director and a world-renowned expert on the Middle East and Islamic terrorism (Con, If Iran continues to defy the West, Barack Obama will be forced to launch military action, http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/ news/concoughlin/100021911/if- iran-continues-to-defy-the- west-barack-obama- will-be- forced-to-launch-military- action/]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">But, despite all these flaws, i...given a sporting chance of surviving into the 22nd</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


**Their prolif good authors are wrong about the Middle East – proliferation there uniquely risks war for multiple reasons**
**Edelman et al 11** [Eric S. Edelman is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. Andrew F. Krepinevich is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran”, Foreign Affairs; Jan/Feb2011, Vol. 90 Issue 1, p66-81, 16p, Chetan]
*paraphrased for abelism
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Were Saudi Arabia to acquire nuclear weapons,...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> with unpredictable consequences</span>


**Contention 2 is __Warming__**

**Warming is real and human induced – emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions**
**Somerville 11**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Professor of Oceanography at UCSD Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">In</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> early </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at the time of the publication ...reaching near zero well within this century.</span>

**AND – It’s the most likely scenario for extinction**
**Deibel 7** [Terry L. Professor of IR at National War College, 2007 “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today]

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**__there is one major ...__** **__existence of life on this planet__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">No offense – increase in CO2 will overall lead to decrease in crop production and cause global starvation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Strom 7 </span>**[Robert Strom, Professor Emeritus of planetary sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona, 2007 (studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center, a NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, “Hot House”, SpringerLink, p. 211-216]

__Agriculture is critical to **the survival of ...**__ __chaos with all their ramifications for civilization__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**The Plan solves - prevents at least 4.8 million tons of CO2 emissions every minute.**
**TIACA 10**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">(The International Air Cargo Association, non-profit trade association for the air cargo industry, It is a worldwide organization that serves a membership which includes all major segments of the air cargo and logistics industry, “The multiple benefitsof modernization”, 2010,http://www.tiaca.org/images/tiaca/PDF/IndustryAffairs/Air%20Traffic%20Management%20-%20Pages%20from%20Industry%20Affairs%20Positions-10.pdf, //CJD)//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Current air traffic managementsystems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are based on ...</span>////<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> that their approach to ATMsystems be global in nature and reflectharmonized standards.</span>//

//**Airline emissions are comparatively the largest contributor to climate change**//
//**Hodgkinson 7** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(David Hodgkinson et al, June 2007, Associate Professor in the Law School at UWA; Special Counsel with Clayton Utz, a national Australian law firm; and a principal of The Hodgkinson Group, a consulting firm with advisors located around the world. David is the co-author of the book Global Climate Change: Australian Law and Policy (2008) and the general editor of Australian Climate Change Law and Policy (2009). As executive director of EcoCarbon, a non-profit organisation, he manages an industry partnership which is building capacity in mechanisms designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. He also leads an international project team working on a draft convention for persons displaced by climate change, “STRATEGIES FOR AIRLINES ON AIRCRAFT EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE CHANGE: SUSTAINABLE, LONG - TERM SOLUTIONS”, [[http://www.hodgkinsongroup.com/documents/Hodgkinson_airline_emissions.bak.pdf]])</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A number of organisations such as the Intergovernmental ...</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> compulsory incentive to reduce international aviation emissions;</span>


**Air-traffic modernization is modeled globally – US led collaboration tackles the environmental issues with aviation**

**JPDO 10** [Joint Planning and Development Office, “Next Generation Air Transportation System International Strategy”, January 7th, 2010, [[http://www.jpdo.gov/library/InformationPapers/JPDO_International%20Strategy.pdf]], Chetan]

*paraphrased for abelism

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NextGen will deliver improved services and resulting operational benefits...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">weather and aeronautical information exchange models, and others.</span>



**No alt causes – the plan solves other transportation emissions and air pollution**

**NEXA 11**(NEXA Advisors, April, NEXA Capital Partners provides corporate and strategic financial advisory services, and capital investment, to the aerospace, transportation, logistics and homeland security sectors, “NextGen Equipage Fund Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues”, [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]])



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2008 </span>**__GAO advocated accelerated deployment ...__****__further reducing emissions and greenhouse gasses__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Air pollution causes extinction**

**Driesen 3** (David, Associate Professor – Syracuse Univeristy Law, 10 Buff Envt'l L.J. 25, Fall/Spring, Lexis)



__Air pollution can **make life unsustainable...**__ __air quality implicates both of these concerns.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 5</span>

**Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the Federal Aviation Agency’s Next Generation program.**

**Contention 2 is Inherency**

**The FAA authorization bill’s failure to resolve air-traffic-control issues non-uniques your disads but continues to freeze NextGen projects**

**Poole 12** [Robert Poole – Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow and Director of Transportation Policy, “Air Traffic Control Reform Newsletter #90”, February 24th, 2012, [[http://reason.org/news/printer/air-traffic-control-reform-news-90]], Chetan]

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">After 23 extensions since the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...spending as a future deficit-reduction measure.)</span>

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**First, the NextGen protocols work – a shift away from outdated airline control and fuel systems saves 1.4 billion gallons of airline fuel in the transition**

**Gilligan 12** (Margaret, Associate Administrator for Avian Safety, Federal Aviation Administration, “AVS Work Plan for NextGen 2012” [[http://www.faa.gov/nextgen/media/avs_nextgen_workplan_2012.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our latest estimates show that by 2018, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">NextGen air traffic management </span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, and as new economic or operational conditions warrant.</span>


**When fully operational - new air traffic control would save 3 billion gallons a year**
**Department of the Treasury 12 (“**A New Economic Analysis of Infrastructure Investment,” 3/23, [[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf)/mat|http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf)//mat]]
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">NOTE: 1 barrel is 42 gallon 3000000000/42=71428571</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Investing in transportation infrastructure creates middle-class jobs. O... including paying less at the pump, over the past decade</span>


**That’s 400,000 barrels per day**

**Murray 11** (Ian, “Resist New Burdens on the Transportation Sector,” Competitive Enterprise Institute, 1/19, [[http://cei.org/sites/default/files/Iain%20Murray%20-%20Resist%20New%20Burdens%20on%20the%20Transportation%20Sector_0.pdf)/mat|http://cei.org/sites/default/files/Iain%20Murray%20-%20Resist%20New%20Burdens%20on%20the%20Transportation%20Sector_0.pdf)//mat]]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Resist New Burdens on the Transportation Sector The transportation industries—...s successful air traffic control privatization offers a useful model.</span>


**The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.**

**ALPA 12** <span style="font-size: 13pt;">[Air Line Pilots Association International, June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, </span>[[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.</span>

**Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates**

**Salam 12**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy ...that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.</span>



=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neg</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wake</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Topicality</span>=== 
====**T-Direct Investment**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Investment” is direct spending on infrastructure and grants to support private sector asset creation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Scotland 5 </span>**(Government of Scotland, “Infrastructure Investment Plan: Investing in the Future of Scotland”, February, http://www.scotland.gov.uk/Publications/2005/02/20756/53558)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Appendix A: Technical Definitions of Infrastructure Investment</span>

<span class="TitleChar">The public expenditure system uses ...</span> the capital element of PPP deals
===**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Counterplans</span>**=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States CP</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">State infrastructure banks only require one initial capitalization and pay for themselves</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Katz et al 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Brookings Institute [Bruce Katz, Jennifer Bradley, and Amy Liu, November 2010, “Delivering the Next Economy: The States Step Up,” Project on State and Metropolitan Innovation, Page 5-6 [[http://www.rockefellerfoundation.org/uploads/files/8203b162-0783-4f0b-b7f9-9730584e0445.pdf]]]</span>
<span class="TitleChar">Infrastructure is a good place to start, ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">from fees, interest earnings, and loan repayments. 24</span>

**CP is predictable and solves – flexibility and uniformity works**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Slone ’11</span>** – transportation policy analyst for The Council of State Governments (Sean, “State Infrastructure Banks”, July 5, http://knowledgecenter.csg.org/drupal/content/state-infrastructure-banks)
<span class="TitleChar">More than 30 states and Puerto Rico ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> state infrastructure bank loan agreements totaling $6.2 billion</span>.3

====**EIS CP**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Which means - Firm in purpose or intent</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Dictionary.com</span>** <span style="font-size: 80%;">[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/resolved]</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">firm in purpose or intent; determined.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Impact statement ensures plan does not have devastating effect on environment</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Wexler 8</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lesley, Professor of Law – Florida State University and Former Debater – University of Michigan, “Human Rights Impact Assessments: An Immigration Case Study”, Georgetown Immigration Law Journal, 22 Geo. Immigr. L.J. 285, Winter, Lexis)sbl</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Under the National Environmental Protection Act of 1969...that would limit the choice of reasonable alternatives</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n104</span>

===<span style="font-size: 120%;">Disads</span>=== 
===<span style="font-size: 120%;">Politics Disads</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">October Surprise Disad</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Obama is doing fine in the polls now – but a sharp decrease in popularity causes him to launch an October Surprise on Iran to distract from the economy and hold onto his presidency</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Siegel 8-13</span>** [Bill Siegel – Contributing Editor of Family Security Matters, the author of The Control Factor - Our Struggle to See the True Threat published by Hamilton Books. “Can You Guess the October Surprise?” August 13th, 2012, [[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/detail/can-you-guess-the-october-surprise]], Chetan]

One should never underestimate<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the audacity of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ...American flags to see the fine hand of a David Axelrod storyline being sold to America.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">US attack on Iran spurs terrorism, NPT collapse, global prolif and war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Hirsch 6 [</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jorge Hirsch is a professor of Physics at the University of California at San Diego. He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and an organizer of a recent petition, circulated among leading physicists, opposing the new nuclear weapons policies adopted by the US in the past 5 years. He is a frequent commentator on Iran and nuclear weapons “Nuking Iran,” Znet, 4/10, [[http://www.zmag.org/content/showarticle.cfm?ItemID=10071]]]</span>

Iran is likely to respond to any US attack using ... we will //all be gone//<span class="TitleChar"> before anybody has prevailed.</span>

====**Elections Disad**==== 
**Obama will win --- a consensus of polls and forecasts prove.**
**Silver, 9/20/2012** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Nate, Sept. 19: A Wild Day in the Polls, but Obama Ends Up Ahead, Five Thirty Eight, New York Times, p. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/20/sept-19-a-wild-day-in-the-polls-but-obama-ends-up-ahead/#h|http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/20/sept-19-a-wild-day-in-the-polls-but-obama-ends-up-ahead/#h]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[])</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">There are</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> also </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__**going to be**__<span style="font-size: 7.777778148651123px; line-height: 13.333333969116211px;">...</span></span> __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">80 percent chance of victory</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">, that he achieved late last week.</span>


**Funding Transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they fear wasteful planning and don’t see the upside.**
**Orski ‘12**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Finding</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">resources to keep transportation i...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Potholes are rare, transit buses and trains seldom break down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between. </span>


**Obama reelection maintains the US/Russian reset --- Romney will collapse relations**
**Weir, 3/27/2012** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, p. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Russian experts say there's little doubt t...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If Obama wins the election, it seems likely the </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">reset will continue</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

**US/Russian relations prevent nuclear war**
**Allison & Blackwill 11** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">That central point is that </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Russia mattkjers ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">essential to</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> the U.S. war to destroy Al Qaeda and combat other transnational terrorist groups.</span>__**

===<span style="font-size: 120%;">Oil Price Disad</span>=== 
**Low oil prices perpetuate dependency and blocks the transition to renewables.**
**Vivienne Walt, 2008**, times business writer, TIME, “OPEC wants you to pay more for gas”
For many consumers, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the only silver ...OPEC will once again be cast among the villains of the current economic downturn.</span>

**Dependence on foreign oil funds terrorism, allows for national security holes, and creates potential economic collapse.**
**Brian R. Stuart, April 2007**, USAF, Major in the U.S. air-force, “Oil and Security Don’t Mix: Why the US can’t Ignore Dependency”
The issue of United States (US) dependence on foreign oil ...<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> just because they held the key to our prosperity hence compromising American values and principles.'"</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neg Strats</span>=== 
====**Wake Forest Round 1 vs. Northview JK (NIB)**==== 
**T-Direct Investment**
**October Surprise DA**
**States CP**
**Cap Kritik (2NR)**

====**Wake Forest Round 3 vs. Chattahoochee IW (Port Security)**==== 
**October Surprise DA**
**EIS CP**
**Cap Kritik (2NR)**

====**Wake Forest Round 5 vs. Niles West HA (Port Security)**==== 
**States CP**
**October Surprise DA (2NR)**
**Cap Kritik**

====**Chattahoochee Round 1 vs. Pace DH (Next Gen)**==== 
**T- Communications**
**States CP**
**October Surprise DA (2NR)**
**Oil Prices DA**

====**Chattahoochee Round 4 vs. Westminster PY (Carbon Pipelines)**==== 
**T- Pipelines**
**States CP**
**October Surprise DA**
**Cap K (2NR)**

====**Chattahoochee Round 5 vs. Milton VG (Mayports)**==== 
**T- Military**
**Elections DA (2NR)**
**States CP**
**Inherency**