[[toc]]
=Note= 
**For aff cites, contact Amelia at a.allicat@gmail.com**
**For neg cites, contact Kai at sunsfan96@gmail.com**


**All previous 1ACs will be posted. Neg strats will be updated when we come home from a tournament; anything else will be put up by request.**
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Districts Finals== 
===Economy=== 
**Contention 1 is Economic leadership**

**US growth will remain __agonizingly__ sluggish – three key arguments -**
**A) Prefer analysis that considers broad trends over economic snapshots, B) Growth has been slow because of disappointing recovery in exactly the sectors the plan resolves, C) We control the biggest internal links to the economy**
**Lasky and Whalen, 11/12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mark J. CBO Macroeconomic Division, Projections Unit Analyst. Charles, CBO Macroeconomic Division, Fiscal Policy Studies Unit. “What Accounts for the Slow Growth of the Economy After the Recession?” Congressional Budget Office. November 12, 2012. http://www.cbo.gov/publication/43707]</span>
The U.S. economy has grown slowly … on average, in past recoveries.

**Plan boosts growth in all these sectors – two internal links - First is jobs -**

**Plan creates millions of jobs -**
**Ways and Means, 9** [House Committee on Ways and Means. December 15. waysandmeans.house.gov/media/pdf/111/promoting_**american**_jobs.pdf]
A recent analysis grading the state … and has supported more than 1.7 million jobs nationwide.

**No delay – job stimulus is immediate**

**Kotok, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David R. Cofounded Cumberland Advisors in 1973 and has been its Chief Investment Officer since inception. He holds a B.S. in economics from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, an M.S. in organizational dynamics from The School of Arts and Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania, and a masters in philosophy from the University of Pennsylvania. “Infrastructure Plan: A Third Option.” Cumberland Advisors. http://www.cumber.com/commentary.aspx?file=091911.asp]</span>
Why five years instead of two, like the original … and infrastructure-related jobs result from them.

**Second is state borrowing and spending - plan stimulates it-**
**Treasury, 12** [United States Department of Treasury. “General Expalantion of the Administration's Fiscal Year 2013 Revenue Proposal.” February. http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/tax-policy/Pages/general_explanation.aspx]
Build America Bonds are a new lower-cost borrowing … permanent could promote market certainty and greater liquidity.

**That's the biggest internal link to a stronger recovery -**
**Lasky and Whalen, 11/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mark J. CBO Macroeconomic Division, Projections Unit Analyst. Charles, CBO Macroeconomic Division, Fiscal Policy Studies Unit. “What Accounts for the Slow Growth of the Economy After the Recession?” Congressional Budget Office. November 12, 2012. http://www.cbo.gov/publication/43707]</span>
The effects of the recession and slow recovery … during previous recoveries since 1959 (the first year for




**Strong US growth is key to promoting an American economic model – the alternative is mercantilism, which destroys economic cooperation**
**POSEN, 9** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)</span>
In the postwar period, US power and prestige … challenge, it should concentrate on the following priority measures.


**U.S. economic supremacy prevents several scenarios for nuclear war**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld**, 20**08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]</span>
Then there are the dolorous consequences … attention from internal travails with external adventures.

===Transportation=== 
**Contention 2 is Transportation**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">American infrastructure is in shambles – it’s the backbone of the US economy</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Donohue, 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">--- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Factiva, JMP) As Obama and Congress talk jobs, here's an appeal from the US Chamber of Commerce: Invest heavily in roads, air transport, and other infrastructure. The economy and jobs depend on it. Adopt innovative financing, including an infrastructure bank to leverage private investment.</span>

Throughout America's history, feats in infrastructure, … with superior infrastructure that will attract jobs, businesses, and capital.




**Economic downturn causes nuclear war**
**Harris and Burrows 9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict</span>

Of course, the report encompasses more than economics … likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.



**Plan spurs massive infrastructure investment across multiple transportation sectors -**

**Orszag, 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Peter. Vice chairman of corporate and investment banking at Citigroup, he was President Obama's director of the Office of Management and Budget. Orszag was previously the director of the Congressional Budget Office, from 2007 to 2008. He served in two different jobs in the Clinton administration, as a senior economist at the Council of Economic Advisors from 1995 to 1996 and, in 1997, as top adviser to the director of the National Economic Council. He has a Ph.D. from the London School of Economics and a B.A. in economics from Princeton University. An adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, he lives in Manhattan. “Bring Back Build America Bonds.” August 7, 2012. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/bring-back-build-america-bonds.html]</span>

These Build America Bonds, created as part of the stimulus … longer-maturity bonds than retail investors would usually seek.



**Specifically, air traffic will surge just as airport infrastructure is decaying – it’s independently key to 1.2 trillion in GDP and 10 million jobs**
**Martinez-Fonts, 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Al. Senior Vice President, National Chamber Foundation. Executive Vice President of the US Forum for Policy Innovation. “Infrastructure Needs Challenging Top Airports Driving America’s Economic Recovery.” July 2. National Chamber Foundation. [[http://ncf.uschamber.com/blog/2012/07/infrastructure-needs-challenging-top-airports-driving-america%E2%80%99s-economic-recovery]]] </span>
The amount of passengers and cargo flying in the … challenge is to find innovative methods for funding the improvements.

**And, the plan stimulates airport investment and infrastructure building -**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Principato 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Greg, President, Airports Council International-North America, “Extending AMT is an even better idea,” March 7, 2011, http://www.aci-na.org/blog/2011/03/07/extending-amt-is-an-even-better-idea/)</span>
We were pleased to hear Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) talk … private activity bonds from the AMT to help build and maintain airport infrastructure.




**And, that’s key to air power**
**Surgeoner, 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert F. Lieutenant Commander United States Navy. “The Military Airport Program: Air Power for Civil Aviation.” Air Command and Staff College, Air University. Google]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Though many people may think of military and civil aviation as separate entities, air power in its most general sense combines all elements of both. </span>The United States government considers airlines to be much like public utilities, offering services that are said to be in the public interest for the need of the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> United States citizen.1 The public interest in civil aviation spans across three main areas. The first, commerce, is the everyday business of the country, and includes both passenger transportation and air cargo transportation. Postal service, the second public interest, provided much of the rich history of the development of civil aviation, and is still instrumental in it today. In fact, 90% of all intercity first-class letters are carried by the airlines.2 The third aspect of public interest served by the civil air industry is national defense, which also encompasses international affairs.3</span>
It is the aspect of national defense that binds … called set-asides, for specific uses.10The author will examine one such set-aside, the Military Airport Program.



**Specifically, the military relies on civilian aviation infrastructure for air force effectiveness, air power, and airlift**
**Petras, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher. Lieutenant Colonel, US Air Force. “The Law of Air Mobility – The International Legal Principles Behind the US Mobility Air Forces' Mission. Air Force Law Review 66:1. LexisNexis]</span>
Professional militaries have long recognized the tactical, … global nature of its operations, and its [rely on] extensive use of civil aircraft.

**And, collapse of air power kills deterrence, causes WMD conflict**

**Tellis, 98** (Ashley, Senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century, [[http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]])
This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational … will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report.



**Additionally, rural road infrastructure is decaying rapidly – it's the biggest internal link to food prices**
**Orr, 12** [Carolyn. Policy Analyst on Agriculture for the Council of State Governments. “Rural Areas on Road to Infrastructure Crisis.” Council of State Governments Midwest. http://www.csgmidwest.org/policyresearch/0112ruralroads.aspx]
Most rural Midwesterners are well aware that their roads and bridges, … 13 percent of rural bridges are structurally deficient and 10 percent more are functionally obsolete.

**And, the plan spurs rural road investment** –
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CSG 11 </span>(Council of State Governments, “Rural Transportation Needs,” January 2011, http://knowledgecenter.csg.org/drupal/system/files/Rural_Transportation_Needs.pdf)
Funding Transportation: With the continuing erosion … like Build America Bonds, which stand to benefit both urban and rural areas.

**US food prices key to global food prices – we grow all the key stuff, we grow a lot of it, and we export it to key countries like India and China**
**Baragona, 12** [Steve. Food, Agriculture and Nutrition Correspondent Voice of America Journalist. “US Drought Could Trigger Higher Food Prices.” Voice of America. http://www.voanews.com/content/us-drought-could-trigger-higher-food-prices/1381476.html]

Despite early predictions of a record maize … which are growing a lot and are starting to consume a lot more meat,"

**And, spikes lead to aggressive Chinese foreign policy -**
**KEREVAN 2011** (George, SNP list candidate for the Lothians at the Holyrood elections in May, “Putting the bite on food production,” The Scotsman, Jan 14)
But sometime in the first decade of the 21st century … growing is a China that could seek to divert popular discontent with a bellicose foreign policy.

**That leads to conflict in the Taiwan Strait**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Shirk</span>**, 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Susan L. former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State during the Clinton administration. She was in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs (People's Republic of China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Mongolia). She is currently a professor at the Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies at the University of California, San Diego. She is also a Senior Director of Albright Stonebridge Group, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [“China¶ Fragile Superpower,” It’s a book, [[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=lang_en&id=EwWwdSofHpQC&oi=fnd&pg=PP9&dq=China%A6+Fragile+Superpower&ots=1RYHpk8DS1&sig=um-cdp36m3OsNW2rd8fHLUlZNIs|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=lang_en&id=EwWwdSofHpQC&oi=fnd&pg=PP9&dq=China%C2%B6+Fragile+Superpower&ots=1RYHpk8DS1&sig=um-cdp36m3OsNW2rd8fHLUlZNIs]]] </span>
As China’s leaders well know, the greatest political … their¶ point of view not lashing out might endanger Party rule.

**Nuclear war -**
Lee J. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunkovic</span> **--** professor at American Military University, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">09</span>, [“The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, American Military University, p.54]
A war between China, Taiwan and the United States … therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.




**Food insecurity makes every kind of conflict more likely – try or die**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">CRIBB 2010 (Julian, Julian Cribb is a science communicator, journalist and editor of several newspapers and books. His published work includes over 7,000 newspaper articles, 1,000 broadcasts, and three books and has received 32 awards for science, medical, agricultural and business journalism. He was Director, National Awareness, for Australia's science agency, CSIRO, foundation president of the Australian Science Communicators, and originated the CGIAR's Future Harvest strategy. He has worked as a newspaper editor, science editor for "The Australian "and head of public affairs for CSIRO. He runs his own science communication consultancy, “The coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” p.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">14-18 </span>

If large regions of the world run short of food, land … have claimed injustice in land ownership and use as one of their motivating causes.


===Plan Text=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should reinstate the Build America Bonds program for transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.**


==== ==== 


==1AC Dowling== 
===**Contention 1 is the economy**=== 

**The Panama Canal expansion will transform global trade – US ports require** <span class="s1">**new harbor deepening**</span> **or they won’t be able to compete for post-Panamax ships**
<span class="s2">**Bridges 2011** </span>**–**Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf]][[%22|)//MM]]

Since the birth of our nation, …. access to seaports. We cannot wait.

**Dredging now is key – over half the world’s cargo will be carried in Post-Panamax vessels by 2015**
<span class="s2">**Racino 12** </span>multimedia-based investigative reporter with Investigative Newsource, a nonprofit journalism enterprise (Brad, “Canal expansion sets up battle of the ports,” July 12, 2012, http://bottomline.nbcnews.com/_news/2012/07/12/12647772-canal-expansion-sets-up-battle-of-the-ports?lite)//AM//

//The process of dredging … on smaller ships.//

//**Strong trade means U.S leadership is strong now, but that will change after 2014**//
//<span class="s4">**Ituma 7-4**</span>-12[“The United States' Supremacy and her place in Global Politics and the Geopolitics of the International System” Mathew Ituma; July 04, 2012; The author is a Ph.D. student at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences in the Department of Conflict Analysis and Dispute Resolution at Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL.[[http://www.monitor.upeace.org/innerpg.cfm?id_articl|http://www.monitor.upeace.org/innerpg.cfm?id_article=922]]]jt//

//<span class="s1">Following the demise ….</span><span class="s3"> becomes tenable.</span>//

//**The perception of a federal commitment to port infrastructure is vital to** <span class="s1">**retain foreign customers**</span> **– this will collapse the recovery**//
//**Calhoun 11**-- President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc (Rick, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest, [[http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/889143450?accountid=14667]]”) EL//

//Just like the nation itself, <span class="s5">…</span> transportation system.//

//**Lack of port deepening forces** <span class="s1">**light loading**</span> **– this will** <span class="s1">**break**</span> **the US shipping industry**//
//**Weakley 8** – Realize America’s Maritime promise, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association (James, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, [[%22|http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]])//MM

<span class="s6">**Port-related jobs are critical to**</span> … not merely for deficit reduction.

**The plan is key to export competitiveness–the US economy is shifting toward trade now, the plan is key for that to be successful**
<span class="s2">**CanagaRetna 10**</span>Senior Fiscal Analyst, Southern Legislative Conference, wrote this Special Series report (Sujit, “The Panama Canal Expansion and SLC State Ports,” June 2010,[[http://www.slcatlanta.org/Publications/EconDev/ports_web.pdf)/AM%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.slcatlanta.org/Publications/EconDev/ports_web.pdf)//AM]]
The lingering effects of the Great Recession …. stand out as major beneficiaries.


**Expanding port infrastructure is vital to US global economic leadership**
**Kiefer et al, 2k** – principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers (Jack, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]]) // CB

2.2.2 Other Tangible Benefits
Indirect <span class="s5">benefits of Corps …</span> handful of coastal states.

**Boosting economic competitiveness is vital to preventing military retrenchment – risks great power wars**
**Khalilzad, ’11** – Bush’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and former director policy planning at the DOD (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8-11, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]])

<span class="s1">Such scenarios would reshape …, dangerous era of multi-polarity</span><span class="s8">.</span>

**Increasing exports decrease the trade deficit and makes growth sustainable – prevents investment bubbles and collapses**
<span class="s2">**Istrate et al, 10** </span>-- senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Emilia, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf]]
)

<span class="s1">Exports Could Contribute … many long-standing difficulties</span><span class="s8">.</span>

**Unipolarity is durable – in depth studies of major factors in international relations**
<span class="s2">**Beckley** **12 –** </span>Michael**,** PhD student at Columbia University and a predoctoral fellow at Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (The Unipolar Era: Why American Power Persists and China’s Rise Is Limited, Columbia University)

<span class="s5">The conventional wisdom …</span> relationship scholarship and policy.

**A multipolar world makes great power wars inevitable**
<span class="s2">**Wohlforth 9**</span> – William Wohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College) 2009 “ Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War” Project Muse
The upshot is a near … competitions for status tend to be zero sum.9

**Decline makes their turns worse- US will be more violent post-decline**
<span class="s2">**Dupont** June **2012** </span>(Alan, professor of international security and director of the Institute for International Security and Development at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia, An Asian Security Standoff, The National Interest, lexis)

<span class="s5">What of the argument …</span><span class="s1"> **reassert its strategic interests.**</span>


===Contention 2 is Coal=== 


**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Major coal price crunch is coming for China – Indonesia and Australia will stop providing enough to keep up with demand, and it'll be too expensive for them to dig up their own</span>**
**Pedersen, 2011**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">[Chris. MSGA New York University. “Asia’s Spectacular Coal Demand: The New Frontier for Powder River Basin CoalA Thesis submitted to the Faculty of the Center for Global Affairs.” Global Affairs. April 25.]</span>

Since the early 1990s Indonesia’s coal mining has grown … implementation of a carbon tax.

**Deepening Gulf ports key to coal exports to China – we have the terminals, but Southwest Pass is the choke point – deepening makes US coal exports cheaper and cost competitive**
**Gambrel, 12** <span style="line-height: 1.5;">[David. Coal Export and Transportation Consultant and Coal Correspondent. “Panama Canal Expansion: The Future Brightens for Export Coal.” 28 June. http://www.coalage.com/index.php/departments/transportation-tips/2105-panama-canal-expansion-the-future-brightens-for-export-coal.html]</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">No longer are the dimensions of the Panama Canal … the outlet to the Gulf of Mexico.</span>

**Delivery efficiency is the key internal link – large effect on coal prices**
**NRC 07 –**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">[National Research Council, elite council formed to meet the requirements of scientific and technical services (National Academy of Sciences, “Coal Research and Development to Support National Energy Policy”, June 2007, [[http://dels.nas.edu/resources/static-assets/materials-based-on-reports/reports-in-brief/coal_r&d_final.pdf]])]</span>

Transport of Coal Growth in the use of coal depends on … with participation by the DOE Carbon Sequestration Program and state agencies.

**Gulf is key – Northwest export has been blocked by environmentalist groups - the Gulf has everything it needs but deeper ports**
**Houston Chronicle, 10/22** <span style="line-height: 1.5;">[Ingrid Lobet. Correspondent. “Gulf Coast Port Joins Export Coal Rush.” http://www.chron.com/business/article/Gulf-Coast-joins-export-coal-rush-3967862.php]</span>

Galveston isn't the only port on the Texas Gulf … and it doesn't mess anything up."

**Spikes in coal prices collapse the Chinese economy**
**Holmes 11** (Frank, Chief Executive and Chief Investment Officer at U.S. Global Investors, 5-3, http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article27899.html, 7-5-11, AH)
Coal powers the Chinese economy. … other appliances in homes.

**That sparks nationalism and lashout**
**Friedberg 10** Professor of Politics and International Affairs – Princeton, Asia Expert – CFR, ’10 (Aaron, “Implications of the Financial Crisis for the US-China Rivalry,” Survival, Volume 52, Issue 4, August, p. 31 – 54)

Despite its magnitude, Beijing's stimulus … perhaps unexpectedly aggressive, ways.

**Goes nuclear**
**Yee 2,** Associate Professor of Government @ Hong Kong Baptist University, and Storey, Asian-Pacific Center for Security Studies, ‘2
(Herbert and Ian, China Threat: Perception, Myths, and Reality, p. 5)

The fourth factor contributing to the perception of … neighbours and the world.


**AND - Recent Obama Pivot to Asia policy means now is key to cement Chinese relations – China needs a clear signal from the US**
**Xinhua, 9/3** <span style="line-height: 1.5;">[US Owes China Convincing Explanation of True Intentions on its Asia Pivot Policy.” [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/indepth/2012-09/03/c_131824191.htm]]]</span>

The world's attention will focus on how … out of the upcoming visits to Beijing by both Clinton and Panetta.

**AND - Coal is a unique opportunity to strengthen US-Sino relations**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Gordon, 2012 </span>**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">[Deborah. Nonresident Senior Associate Energy and Climate Program. “Mapping a US-China Coal Partnership.” [[http://carnegieendowment.org/2012/05/11/mapping-u.s.-china-coal-partnership/apm8]]]</span>

More coal is buried in the United States and China ….global coal markets.


**Relations key to check Asian nuclear war**
**Chen 1.** (Shuxen, RAND Corp, China the United States and The Global Economy)
Indeed, U.S.-Chinese relations have been consistently … keep the relationship on an even keel.

===**Plan text**=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its expedited investment in port deepening projects in and around ports in the United States.**


===**Contention 3 is solvency**=== 

**The federal government is key – port infrastructure is under federal jurisdiction and federal action is vital to leadership**
**AAPA, 11** - AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)//GP]]</span>

Over time these constitutional responsibilities have been …., be recognized and prioritized.

**And these federal regulations mean any new projects will take decades unless the federal government expedites construction**
**Nagle, 2012**- President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before the United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subommittee”, Budget Hearing- U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Assistant Secretary, Chief of Engineers, March 7, 2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)/MM|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)//MM]]</span>

First, the funding level of….challenges of today and tomorrow.

**Recent transportation bill solves alt causes and non-uniques disads**
**Dredging Today 7/2**/12
America’s Seaports Recognized in MAP-21 Surface Transportation Bill Reauthorizationhttp://www.dredgingtoday.com/2012/07/02/americas-seaports-recognized-in-map-21-surface-transportation-bill-reauthorization/

With congressional passage last week of MAP-21 … and capacity demands on America’s freight network going forward.
==<span class="s1">**1AC Valley**</span>== 

===**Contention 1 is the economy**=== 

**The Panama Canal expansion will transform global trade – US ports require** <span class="s1">**new harbor deepening**</span> **or they won’t be able to compete for post-Panamax ships**
<span class="s2">**Bridges 2011** </span>**–**Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf]][[%22|)//MM]]

Since the birth of our nation, …. access to seaports. We cannot wait.

**Dredging now is key – over half the world’s cargo will be carried in Post-Panamax vessels by 2015**
<span class="s2">**Racino 12** </span>multimedia-based investigative reporter with Investigative Newsource, a nonprofit journalism enterprise (Brad, “Canal expansion sets up battle of the ports,” July 12, 2012, http://bottomline.nbcnews.com/_news/2012/07/12/12647772-canal-expansion-sets-up-battle-of-the-ports?lite)//AM//

//<span class="s1">The process of dredging … on smaller ships.</span>//

//**Strong trade means U.S leadership is strong now, but that will change after 2014**//
//<span class="s4">**Ituma 7-4**</span>-12[“The United States' Supremacy and her place in Global Politics and the Geopolitics of the International System” Mathew Ituma; July 04, 2012; The author is a Ph.D. student at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences in the Department of Conflict Analysis and Dispute Resolution at Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL.[[http://www.monitor.upeace.org/innerpg.cfm?id_articl|http://www.monitor.upeace.org/innerpg.cfm?id_article=922]]]jt//

//<span class="s1">Following the demise ….</span><span class="s3"> becomes tenable.</span>//

//**The perception of a federal commitment to port infrastructure is vital to** <span class="s1">**retain foreign customers**</span> **– this will collapse the recovery**//
//**Calhoun 11**-- President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc (Rick, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest, [[http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/889143450?accountid=14667]]”) EL//

//Just like the nation itself, <span class="s5">…</span> transportation system.//

//**Lack of port deepening forces** <span class="s1">**light loading**</span> **– this will** <span class="s1">**break**</span> **the US shipping industry**//
//**Weakley 8** – Realize America’s Maritime promise, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association (James, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, [[%22|http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]])//MM

<span class="s6">**Port-related jobs are critical to**</span> … not merely for deficit reduction.

**The plan is key to export competitiveness–the US economy is shifting toward trade now, the plan is key for that to be successful**
<span class="s2">**CanagaRetna 10**</span>Senior Fiscal Analyst, Southern Legislative Conference, wrote this Special Series report (Sujit, “The Panama Canal Expansion and SLC State Ports,” June 2010,[[http://www.slcatlanta.org/Publications/EconDev/ports_web.pdf)/AM%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.slcatlanta.org/Publications/EconDev/ports_web.pdf)//AM]]
The lingering effects of the Great Recession …. stand out as major beneficiaries.


**Expanding port infrastructure is vital to US global economic leadership**
**Kiefer et al, 2k** – principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers (Jack, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]]) // CB

2.2.2 Other Tangible Benefits
Indirect <span class="s5">benefits of Corps …</span> handful of coastal states.

**Boosting economic competitiveness is vital to preventing military retrenchment – risks great power wars**
**Khalilzad, ’11** – Bush’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and former director policy planning at the DOD (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8-11, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]])

<span class="s1">Such scenarios would reshape …, dangerous era of multi-polarity</span><span class="s8">.</span>

**Increasing exports decrease the trade deficit and makes growth sustainable – prevents investment bubbles and collapses**
<span class="s2">**Istrate et al, 10** </span>-- senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Emilia, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf]]
)

<span class="s1">Exports Could Contribute … many long-standing difficulties</span><span class="s8">.</span>

**Unipolarity is durable – in depth studies of major factors in international relations**
<span class="s2">**Beckley** **12 –** </span>Michael**,** PhD student at Columbia University and a predoctoral fellow at Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (The Unipolar Era: Why American Power Persists and China’s Rise Is Limited, Columbia University)

<span class="s5">The conventional wisdom …</span> relationship scholarship and policy.

**A multipolar world makes great power wars inevitable**
<span class="s2">**Wohlforth 9**</span> – William Wohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College) 2009 “ Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War” Project Muse
The upshot is a near … competitions for status tend to be zero sum.9

**Decline makes their turns worse- US will be more violent post-decline**
<span class="s2">**Dupont** June **2012** </span>(Alan, professor of international security and director of the Institute for International Security and Development at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia, An Asian Security Standoff, The National Interest, lexis)

<span class="s5">What of the argument …</span><span class="s1"> **reassert its strategic interests.**</span>



===**Contention 2 is liquid natural gas**=== 

**China wants to import LNG from the US – it’s the most cost-competitive option**
<span class="s2">**Zhu and Sethuraman 12** </span>Bloomberg reporters (Winnie AND Dinakar, “China’s Easing Grip on Gas Opening Door to North America Exports,” 6/4/12, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-06-04/china-s-easing-grip-on-gas-opening-door-to-north-america-exports)//AM//

//<span class="s1">Chinese consumers may buy natural gas …</span><span class="s3"> tons by 2020, according to Bernstein. </span>//

//**This requires increasing US harbor deepening to be successful**//
//<span class="s2">**Ebinger et al. 12** </span>-- Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force("Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January, p. 15, Brookings, www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)//

//Shipping Capacity//
//<span class="s3">The </span><span class="s1">successful export …shipping costs to Asia</span><span class="s8">.</span><span class="s3"> 40</span>//

//**Absent U.S. exports, China’s aggressive drive to acquire LNG causes a naval arms race and war**//
//<span class="s2">**Shobert, 2012** </span>***quotes Hulbert, Research Director for the Asian Energy Security Program at the National Bureau of Asia Research, Shobert is managing director of Rubicon Strategy Group, a consulting firm specialized in strategy analysis for companies looking to enter emerging economies,**//
//**(Benjamin A., “China's resources policy attracts attention of congress,” 2/2/12, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/NB02Cb01|http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/NB02Cb01.html)//AM]]**//

//**<span class="s3">Washington is grudgingly …</span><span class="s1"> deltas throughout Southeast Asia.</span>**//

//Tensions are rising in the South China Sea – the arms race is drawing in world powers//
//Singh 12 **Research Officer at the China Research Programme. She is also pursuing her PhD on China and the Geopolitics of Indian Ocean from the Department of East Asian Studies, University of Delhi. Her research interests also include Maritime Security and Chinese Foreign Policy. (Teshu, “SOUTH CHINA SEA: EMERGING SECURITY ARCHITECTURE,” Special Report for Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, 2012, http://www.ipcs.org/special-report/china/south-china-sea-emerging-security-architecture-132.html)**//**AM**

**<span class="s5">The region has become …</span> if China “pushes back” in turn (Babbage, 2011).**

Asian energy wars risk global escalation
Emmott, 8 **- former editor of the Economist (Bill, ‘Power rises in the east,’ The Australian, June 4, pg. l/n**

**As well as knitting them, …<span class="s5">, Taiwan </span>and Pakistan<span class="s9">.</span>**

And, independently, a naval arms race causes both accidental and intentional war
Hartfiel and Job, 2007 **University of British Columbia, Program Officer at the Human Security Centre, Vancouver** *AND Professor of Political Science and Director of the Centre of International Relations at UBC (Robert and Brian, “Raising the risks of war: defence spending trends and competitive arms processes in East Asia,” The Pacific Review, http://www.tandfonline.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/doi/pdf/10.1080/09512740601133138)//AM//

//<span class="s3">However, these developments …</span><span class="s1"> and deliberate outbreak of war. </span>//

//**Existing import terminals are being converted – eliminates their solvency deficits**//
//<span class="s2">**Siegel, 2012** </span>president of J.J. Richardson, a registered investment advisor that manages a hedge fund (John, “The World's Largest LNG Supplier?” 4/7/12 ,http://online.barrons.com/article/SB50001424052748704759704577267370939083182.html)//AM

<span class="s1">By 2017 the U.S. … feet of LNG per day.</span>

===<span class="s1">**Plan text**</span>=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its expedited investment in port deepening projects in the United States.**



===**Contention 3 is solvency**=== 

**Obama has expedited approval for projects, but not allocated funds – our aff is still inherent, but you don’t have any disads.**
<span class="s2">**Morgan and Rabin 7/19** </span>– Miami Herald reporter, environment reporter (Curtis and Charles, “White House Speeds Up Permits, Offers No New Cash For Port Miami Dredge Project”, The Miami Herald, July 21 2012, [[http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/07/19/2902727/white-house-speeds-up-permits.html]])//CB//
//<span class="s1">The White House on Thursday …</span><span class="s6"> **all remaining federal reviews**</span><span class="s1">.”</span>//

//**And the status quo is only expediting 5 ports - prioritizing funding shortchanges small ports and destroys competitiveness**//
//<span class="s2">**Bridges 2011** </span>**–**Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf]][[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-|)//MM]]//

//<span class="s1">Some may suggest that we should … determining federal investment. </span>//

//**Recent transportation bill solves alt causes and non-uniques disads**//
//**Dredging Today 7/2/12**//
//<span class="s10">America’s Seaports Recognized in MAP-21 Surface Transportation Bill Reauthorization</span>http://www.dredgingtoday.com/2012/07/02/americas-seaports-recognized-in-map-21-surface-transportation-bill-reauthorization///

//With congressional passage last week …demands on America’s freight network going forward.//

//**The federal government is key – port infrastructure is under** <span class="s1">**federal jurisdiction**</span> **and federal action is vital to** <span class="s1">**leadership**</span>//
//**AAPA, 11** - AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)//GP]]//

//Over time these constitutional …<span class="s5"> be recognized and prioritized</span><span class="s8">.</span>//

//**And these federal regulations mean any new projects will take** <span class="s1">**decades**</span> **unless the federal government expedites construction**//
//**Nagle, 2012**- President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before the United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subommittee”, Budget Hearing- U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Assistant Secretary, Chief of Engineers, March 7, 2012, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)/MM|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)//MM]]//

//<span class="s5">First, the funding level …</span> we can meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.//

//**The plan will allow the US to double exports in the next 5 years**//
//**USA Today 11** – news agency (Larry Copeland, “A goal to be port of call for all; U.S. sites digging in to accommodate big ships,” USA Today, October 3, 2011, lexis)//CBs
It's just before noon on a recent weekday, and the nation's fastest-growing container shipping port is bustling with activity.
Massive, 10-story-high cranes, each shaped like an upside down "U," lift tractor-trailer-size containers onto and off cargo ships at dockside. A station checking for radioactivity in containers leaving the port clicks right along, while a non-stop stream of trucks enters and leaves the 1,200-acre facility.
The freight moving through here touches the lives of people in 15 states, some 44% of the nation's population.
<span class="s1">Even more critically, … keep us very competitive." </span>

<span class="s1">**Federal leadership is key – jurisdictional infighting and budgets prevent other actors from solving**</span>
**Reid, 8** - Senior Editor, Civil Engineering Magazine, American Civil Society of Engineers (Robert, “The Infrastructure Crisis”, Civil Engineering Magazine, January, [[http://www.asce.org/Content.aspx?id=25562]])

But today such projects ….is “an unknown and unacceptable level of risk.”

**Obama’s stimulus package disproves their turns: 1) They’re non-unique, 2) The plan isn’t enough to trigger them, and 3) Studies prove it was a success anyway**
<span class="s2">**Grunwald 12** </span>senior correspondent for Time magazine and Foreign Policy (Micahel, “Think Again: Obama's New Deal,” Sept/Oct 2012, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/08/13/think_again_obamas_new_deal)//AM

<span class="s5">When it comes to the Recovery Act, …</span> shrunk during the Obama presidency.




=Negative= 

==Greenhill (Kai was with Jordan)== 
**Round 1 vs. Pace CK**
**T-Vehicles**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Louisiana CP**
**EIS CP**
**Case**


**Round 3 vs. Carrolton GP**
**T-Vehicles**
**Fiscal Discipline DA (2nr)**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Privatization** **CP(2nr)**
**Alaska CP**
**Case**

**Round 6 vs. Damien LO**
**T-Military**
**T-Vehicles**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Heidegger K**
**LOST CP**
**Case**


==Valley== 
**Round 2 vs. Rosemount HJ (NextGen)**
**T-Capital Investment**
**T-Communication Infrastructure**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Seapower Tradeoff DA**
**States CP**
**Case**

**Round 4 vs. Wayzata CC (EVs)**
**Oil DA**
**Fiscal Discipline DA (2nr)**
**Elections DA**
**Flex Fuel CP**
**States CP**
**Case**

**Round 5 vs. Dowling AS (Mayport)**
**T-MIlitary**
**T-In**
**DoD Tradeoff DA**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Florida CP**
**LOST CP**
**Case**

**Doubles vs. Niles West AA (Port Security)**
**T-Port Security**
**Elections DA**
**Fiscal Discipline DA (2nr)**
**Code of Conduct CP**
**States CP**
**Case (2nr--Econ link turn)**

**Octas vs. East Kentwood KS (Milliken)**
**T-Vehicles**
**T-Increase**
**Court Legitimacy DA**
**Elections DA**
**Title 1 Schools Funding CP (2nr)**
**Case (2nr--Culture and Integration DA)**



==New Trier== 
**Round 2: Neg vs. Lane Tech (HSR)**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Oil DA**
**Fiscal Discipline DA**
**States CP**
**Problems K**
**Case**

**Round 3: Neg vs. HoFlo GF (New Orleans)**
**T-Vehicles**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**States CP**
**NEPA CP**
**Case (2nr--Util and Neoliberalism Good)**

**Round 6 vs. GBS RW (NextGen)**
**T-Communications Infrastructure**
**Elections DA**
**Spending DA (2nr)**
**States CP**
**Cost Overruns Conditions CP (2nr)**
**Case**

**Doubles vs. Maine East HM (HSR)**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Airline Tradeoff DA**
**Oil DA**
**Fiscal Discipline DA (2nr)**
**States CP**
**Problems K**
**Case**


**Octas vs. Bishop Guertin DI (Dredging)**
**T-Maintenance**
**Elections DA**
**Spending DA (2nr)**
**Devolution CP**
**HMTF CP (2nr)**
**Case**


==Caucus== 
**Round 1 vs. Edina WO (NIB)**
**Oil DA**
**China Steel DA**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**States CP**
**Corporate Tax Cuts CP**
**Case**

**Round 4 vs. Barstow AD (NIB)**
**T-Loans and Loan Guarantees**
**Oil DA**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**States CP**
**Corporate Tax Cuts CP**
**Case**

**Round 5 vs. Dowling SL (Alaska Ports)**
**Nuclear Modernization Tradeoff DA**
**Russia Econ DA**
**Moody's DA**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Icebreakers CP**
**Ban Oil Drilling and Arctic Science Diplomacy CP (2nr)**
**Case**


==**Michigan**== 
**Round 1 vs. GBS LV (Title XI)**
**T-Loan Guarantees**
**CTC CP**
**Freight Rail DA**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Oil DA**
**Case**

**Round 4 vs. Niles North EO (Port Security)**
**T-Port Security**
**Code of Conduct CP (2nr)**
**States CP**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Bioterror Tradeoff DA**

**Round 6 vs. GBN CT (Fed Reserve--US Version)**
**T-USFG**
**Education Bonds CP**
**Bank of Japan CP (2nr)**
**Keystone DA**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Case**

**Triples vs. Carrolton AR (Icebreakers)**
**T-Vehicles**
**Privatization CP (2nr)**
**Corporate Tax Cuts and Arctic Science CP**
**Elections DA (2nr)**
**Russia Econ DA**
**Case**

==The Glenbrooks== 

**Round 2 vs. Harker MC (Title XI)**
**T-Loan** **Guarantees**
**Fiscal Cliff DA (2nr)**
**Rail Tradeoff DA**
**Oil DA**
**CTC CP**
**Case**

**Round 4 vs. Pace ES (Gas Tax)**
**T-Gas Tax**
**Fiscal Cliff DA**
**Problems K**
**Gas Tax PIC**
**Case--Oil Dependence Good, Chinese Dedev, and CCP Collapse Good (2nr(**

**Round 5 vs. Greenhill GR (Bering Strait)**
**T-Land Grants**
**Fiscal Cliff DA (2nr)**
**Problems K**
**Alaska Do It and Ban BMD CP**
**Case**

**Round 7 vs. Highland Park WW (Camus K aff)**
**Framework**
**Spending DA**
**Taoism K**
**Kyncism K (2nr)**


==**Dowling**== 
**Round 2 vs. Niles West PD (Port Security)**
**T-Port Security**
**Fiscal Cliff DA**
**C-TPAT CP**
**Code of Conduct CP**
**Case**
**2nr was condo good...dropped it awks**


**Round 3 vs. Millard North CM (NIB)**
**Oil DA**
**Fiscal Cliff DA**
**Soybeans DA**
**Federal Reserve CP (2nr)**
**Case (Stimulus Bad) (2nr)**


**Round 6 vs. Bishop Guertin RV (Alaska Ports)**
**T-in**
**Russia Econ DA**
**Nuclear Modernization Tradeoff DA**
**Fiscal Cliff DA**
**Ban Oil Drilling and Science Diplomacy CP**
**Case (Arctic War Link Turns) (2nr)**


**Octos vs. GBN CH (Dredging)**
**T-Maintenance**
**Coal DA**
**Soybeans DA**
**Fiscal Cliff DA (2nr)**
**Intermodal Links PIC**
**States PPP CP (2nr)**
**Case**


==Blake== 
**Round 1 vs. GBS MP (LNG Terminals)**
**T-Energy Infrastructure**
**Australia LNG DA**
**Russia LNG DA**
**Fiscal Cliff DA (2nr)**
**Permit Expedition CP (2nr)**
**Case**

**Round 4 vs. Niles West KP (Port Security)**
**T-Port Security**
**Coast Guard Tradeoff DA**
**Fiscal Cliff DA (2nr)**
**CSI CP (2nr)**
**Case**

**Round 6 vs. Des Moines Rooselvelt PW (CCS)**
**Spending DA (2nr)**
**Fiscal Cliff DA (2nr)**
**Renewables Tradeoff DA (2nr)**
**Remove EPA Regulations CP**
**Case**

==MBA== 
**Round 2 vs. Hooch KL (Port Security)**
**T-Port Security**
**Immigration Politics (2nr)**
**Containers DA**
**Problems K**
**CSI CP (2nr)**
**Case**

**Round 3 vs. John's Creek FD (LNG)**
**T-Energy Infrastructure**
**Australia LNG DA**
**Russia LNG DA**
**Debt Ceiling Politics**
**Spending DA (2nr)**
**Permit Expedition CP (2nr)**
**Case**

**Round 6 vs. Highland Park SH (MTS)**
**T-maintenance**
**Coal DA (2nr)**
**Debt Ceiling Politics**
**Case**

==Golden Desert== 
**Round 1 vs. LNU PC (Biometric ITS)**
**T-Communication Infrastructure**
**Problems K**
**Immigration Politics**
**NEPA CP (2nr)**
**Case**

**Round 3 vs. RHSM SP**
**T-Pipelines**
**Spending DA (2nr)**
**Immigration Politics**
**RPS CP (2nr)**
**Case**

**Round 5 vs. Westminster ZY**
**T-Maintenance**
**Coal DA**
**Immigration Politics (2nr)**
**Devolution CP**
**Case (2nr--stimulus bad)**

**Doubles vs. Westminster MH**
**T-Maintenance**
**Pakistan Cotton DA**
**Immigration Politics**
**Devolution CP (2nr)**
**Case (2nr--stimulus bad)**










[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]