[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative (Wake Forest and Yale)== 
For anyone who hit me on the AC at Wake or Yale you can email me for cites on the Buddhism 1AC that I read. My email is jbpinto77@gmail.com
==Negative (Wake Forest and Yale)== 
Value: Justice Rendering each its due.


Value Criterion: Protecting the rights of the Accused-

CT1: The Accused should be tried in the ICC due to the disadvantages of US Civilian Courts.

**Vagts 03** Professor of International Law Harvard University.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"><Vagts, Detlev F. "Which Courts Should Try Persons Accused of Terrorism." //EJIL//. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Aug. 2012. <http://www.ejil.org/pdfs/14/2/417.pdf>.</span>

First, we have the question of security…out what it means.






**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Banchik 03</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Banchik, Mira. "The International Criminal Court & Terrorism." //Peace Studies Journal//. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Aug. 2012. <http://www.peacestudiesjournal.org.uk/dl/ICC%20and%20Terrorism.PDF>.</span>

Terrorism as a crime against humanity…consequences of his acts.



=November-December= 
==Rawls Affirmative (Glenbrooks and GMU)== 
**VALUE**: morality
**VALUE CRITERION**-consistency with the principles from the veil of ignorance.

Daniels writes:

**Health-Care Needs and Distributive Justice** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Author(s): Norman Daniels</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4) Reviewed work(s): Source: Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 10, No. 2 (Spring, 1981), pp. 146-179 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2264976 .Accessed: 24/06/2012 14:36</span>
Rawls argues it… equality of opportunity<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

CT1

John Rawls. A Theory of Justice. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/justice-distributive/1993.
Social and economic… members of society.

Cecere continues<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Cambridge Health Alliance] New Study finds 45,000 deaths annually linked to lack of health coverage. Harvard Gazette Online. http://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2009/09/new-study-finds-45000-deaths-annually-linked-to-lack-of-health-coverage/ September 17, 2009.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nearly </span>45,000 annual… privately insured counterparts.

CT2

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Burdo ‘8</span>__</span> (Anthony Burdo, BA in Biotechnology from Rutgers, “The Inadequacies of Health Care Policy for Disabled Persons in the U.S.” [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/2655730/The-Inadequacies-of-Health-Care-Policy-for-Disabled-Persons-in-the-US]] p. 4/24/08 a. 10/4/12)

With the evolution… without medical care.

Bérubé, 2003 (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring, [[http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506]]

It is striking… all of us.
==Nozick Negative (Glenbrooks and GMU)== 
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.5pt;">Value- Morality</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.5pt;">Value Criterion- moral autonomy</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Individual Autonomy and State Involvement in Health Care </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">by Thomas Rice</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Journal of Medical Ethics</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> , Vol. 27, No. 4 (Aug., 2001), pp. 240-244</span>

Government has the… away by government.

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.5pt;">Robert Nozick. Distributive Justice.Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. pg.172 </span>__<span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.5pt;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/justice-distributive/]]</span>__

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.5pt;">because people own… actions and labor.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.5pt;">Robert Nozick 2. Distributive Justice.Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. pg.172 </span>__<span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.5pt;">http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/justice-distributive/</span>__

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.5pt;">Why not similarly… between its citizens.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.5pt;">CT1</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8.5pt;">Petro ’74 (Sylvester Petro, Professor of Law at Wake Forest University, University of Toledo Law Review Spring 1974 p. 480)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.5pt;">However, one may… with undying spirit.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.5pt;">Caplan 8 (Bryan Caplan received his Ph.D. in Economics in 1997 from Princeton University, and is now an associate professor of Economics at George Mason University “The totalitarian threat” , Donnie) </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.5pt;">How seriously do… will be destroyed.</span>

=January-February= 
==Violence Affirmative (Myers Park, Lexington, Harvard, State Quals)== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Value: Justice</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">Utilitarianism Protects Fairness</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">Robin Barrow, Prof. Simon Fraser U, 1991, //Utilitarianism,// p. 29</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">However the </span>//principle ...//<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> of the good.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rehabilitation is justified by utilitarianism, **__Raynor__** <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Briefly, the strong ... of the argument</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Value Criterion</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">: Minimizing Harm- the only way to minimize harm is to look to the decreasing of crime. To do this we must look to a Utilitarian standard of ethics.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Governments must look to results of outcome not means</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goodin, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">fellow in philosophy at Australian National Defense University, **1990** (Robert, “The Utilitarian Response”, p. 141-2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My larger argument ... rules or conduct.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Only utilitarianism can serve as the basis to legitimately justify policy to the public.</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gary **Woller** [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moreover, virtually all ... in a democracy.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Sam **Harris** 2010. [CEO Project Reason; PHD UCLA Neuroscience; BA Stanford Philosophy]. The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">All questions of value collapse to how they affect end-states. </span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Here is my ... of all values.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 – Crime is more than individual it’s structural</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solving crime requires more than punishment – to end crime requires an examination and prevention of the underlying structural violence surrounding crime – this is where solvency begins</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek 8 (Slavoj Zizek, Professor of Philosophy and Psychoanalysis at European Graduate School, “Violence: Six Sideways Reflections” pg 1-2 2008)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If there ... //of subjective violence.//</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rehabilitation treats the structural cause of crime – prefer to retribution – rehabilitation prevent structural crime</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith ‘1 (Nick Smith, University of New Hampshire Department of Philosophy, 2001 [latest cite] [[http://pubpages.unh.edu/~nicks/pdf/Rehabilitation.pdf]] )</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rehabilitation seeks to ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> a deviant individual. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ct2: Rehabilitation is preferable because it makes offenders less state dependent.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 1 (Nick Smith, University of New Hampshire Department of Philosophy, 2001 [latest cite] [[http://pubpages.unh.edu/~nicks/pdf/Rehabilitation.pdf]] ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“According to rehabilitative ... of young offenders.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">This state dependence causes more crime – offenders become accustomed to life inside the prison and commit crimes to stay in prison</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Powell ’12 (Release from Prison: Shock or Growth? by Michael Powell http:// [[http://www.thubtenchodron|www.thubtenchodron]]. org/PrisonDharma/release_from_prison.html, 2012)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The people who ... and some aren’t.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rehabilitation decreases recidivism by 10-20 percent Gendreau</span>[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if interventions ... for the interventions “doubles” </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tennyson</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This section provides ... from criminal activity. </span>







----
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">2009, Why Help Offenders? Arguments for Rehabilitation as a Penal Strategy. [Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice. Swansea University. AND Gwen Robinson Senior Lecturer in Criminal Justice. Sheffield University]</span>

[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;"> Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice.</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Tennyson, Heidi R. (2009). Reducing Juvenile Recidivism: A Meta-Analysis of Treatment Outcomes (Doctoral dissertation, Pacific University). Retrieved from: http://commons.pacificu.edu/spp/109</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norway Plan (Harvard)</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Value: Morality</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Governments must look to results of outcome not means</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goodin, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">fellow in philosophy at Australian National Defense University, **1990** (Robert, “The Utilitarian Response”, p. 141-2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My larger argument ... rules or conduct.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our obligation as debaters is to act in a way that mirrors the decision of policy makers. This allows us to engage in policy-making role-playing, which is the most educational part of debate. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shaw </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PEDAGOGY IN INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Using Role-Play Scenarios in the IR Classroom: An Examination of Exercises on Peacekeeping Operations and Foreign Policy Decision Making CAROLYN M. SHAW Wichita State University</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The use of role-playing ... our ‘‘national interest.’’</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Standard</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">: Minimizing Harm</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Inherancy: United States uses retributive system</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Atlantic 8/24/12</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2012/08/a-different-justice-why-anders-breivik-only-got-21-years-for-killing-77-people/261532/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norway's criminal justice ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;"> needs into account.</span>

Thus, the plan -- The United States Federal Government should adopt the <span style="line-height: 24px;">rehabilitative</span> policies of Norway’s criminal justice system. I reserve the right to clarify.


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">The Norwegian prison system offers vocational education to all inmates. These skills increase STEM education. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Stone11** (James R. Stone III http://www7.nationalacademies.org/bose/STEM_Schools_Stone_Paper_May2011.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lenawee **__Vocational__**-Technical ... design/computer-aided design.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 1: Rehab is key to HEG.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stem education key to HEG</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Machi et al ‘9</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – Independent Researcher [Ethel Machi, Jena Baker McNeill (Policy Analyst for Homeland Security @ Heritage Foundation) Jennifer A. Marshall (Director of Domestic Policy Studies @ Heritage Foundation) Dan Lips (Senior Policy Analyst in Education @ Heritage Foundation) & James Jay Carafano ( Senior Research Fellow for National Security and Homeland Security @ The Heritage Foundation). “Improving U.S. Competitiveness with K–12 STEM Education and Training”, Heritage Special Report, A Report on the STEM Education and National Security Conference, Heritage Foundation Special Report, SR-57, June 16, 2009] </span><span style="color: white; font-size: 12pt;">June 16, 2009</span>
<span style="color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> 16, 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Every day, a ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;"> from passionate teachers. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">American hegemony solves all conflicts – multipolarity isn’t inevitable and it would only lead to conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(Robert, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History, 6-19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The jostling for ... **an easier path**.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Finally, hegemony solves conflict- US leadership ensures a peaceful international system.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Keohane 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Robert O. Keohane – professor of International Affairs from Princeton University, August 2012, “Hegemony and After”, Vol. 91 Issue 4, p114-118, 5p]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Apart from questions ... an antidemocratic reaction?</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US military dominance deters Chinese aggression and war. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ward 12 (Alex, journalist- worked for the Times of London, March 23, 2012, http://www.e-ir.info/2012/03/23/is-the-usa-still-the-indispensible-power-in-east-asia/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In particular, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">the ... </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">into chaotic flux</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China conflict escalates into global nuclear war</span>
**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Hunkovic</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">, [Lee J, 2009, **2009**American Military University “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf] </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A war between ...</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;"> in this study. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even a millionth of a percent of our impact outweighs – the math is conclusively on our side. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Nick, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy at Oxford, Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, “The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]], Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If we make ... <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of such an action.</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 2 Rehab key to economy.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">STEM jobs are key to the economy- the only problem is lack workers.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Langdon et al ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (David Langdon, George McKittrick, David Beede, Beethika Khan, and Mark Doms, Office of the Chief Economist July 2011) <http://www.esa.doc.gov/sites/default/files/reports/documents/stemfinalyjuly14_1.pdf>//DoeS//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">cience, technology, engineering ... non-STEM occupations. </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad 11 Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Econom and National Security" Feb 8 www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Today, economic and ... in their regions.</span>


<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline makes war highly likely – your defense doesn’t assume the accompanying shift in power</span>
**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Less intuitive is ... to those views.</span>



==Rationality Negative (Myers Park, Lexington, Harvard, State Quals)== 
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">V: Morality</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Kant</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> also argues ... for assuming freedom.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST the structure of law implies that desert is derived solely from practical reason. Stephen **Morse**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">For the law ... to be punished.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Thus the standard is **maintaining consistency with independence**. Ethical theories only have force in obliging persons – or those who are beings. In order to be defined as a being, you must have independence. Ripstein<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span> 1</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The core idea ... used to pursue.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">It is my sole contention that, **first**, the structure of independence requires punishment of crime. As the duty to punish is an obligation, it applies to any actor, as individuals under a rightful condition are equivalent to those acting for the ends of the state. There is a general obligation to punish crimes. **Ripstein 3[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]** continues:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">In crimes against ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;"> fulfill the obligation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">NEXT, Punishment is the only way to maintain independence for offenders. Chad **Flanders**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Morris paints the ... to be punished.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Morse, Stephen. “Inveitable Mens Rea.” //Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy,// 27.1 (2003): 51–64. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Ripstein, Arthur, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 6pt;">Authority and Coercion</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> by Blackwell Publishing, Inc. Philosophy & Public Affairs 2004</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Ripstein, Arthur. “In Extremis.” //Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law,// 2.415 (2005): 415–433. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;">Chad Flanders [J.D. 2007, Yale; Ph.D. 2004, Chicago (philosophy). Assistant Professor of Law, Saint Louis University School of Law], “Retribution and Reform,” 70 Md. L. Rev. 87 (2010-2011)</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federalism Disad (Lexington, Harvard)</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federalism is growing stronger- state and local governments are expanding their powers</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Katz 12 - Vice President at the Brookings Institution and founding Director of the Brookings Metropolitan Policy Program, Graduate of Brown University and Yale Law School, - (Bruce, March 18th, 2012, “Will the Next President Remake Federalism?” [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/articles/2012/03/18-federalism-katz]], HL) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While the federal ... willing to take it. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Link</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal prison policy destroys federalism – it’s a state issue and prison policy is key</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barkow ’11 (Rachel E. Barkow, FEDERALISM AND CRIMINAL LAW: WHAT THE ¶ FEDS CAN LEARN FROM THE STATES Michigan Law Review, February 2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Criminal law enforcement ... and state power.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Internal Link</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, it’s modeled world-wide [time permitting]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calabresi 95 –Associate Professor at Northwestern University School of Law- (Steven, "Symposium: Reflections On United States V. Lopez: "A Government Of Limited And Enumerated Powers": In Defense Of United States V. Lopez," Michigan Law Review, December 1995, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">At the same ... former Soviet Union.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Impacts: Human Rights</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federalism solves human rights</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calabresi 95 (Steven G. Calabresi, professor of law at Northwestern University, George C Dix Professor of Constitutional Law, BA cum laude from Yale University, JD from Yale University, co-founder of the Federalist Society, Chairman of the Federalist Society Board of Directors, editor of the American Journal of Comparative Law, member of the Oquosoc Angling Association, former advisor to Attorney General Edwin Meese III, former speechwriter for former Vice President Dan Quayle, former resident scholar at Harvard University, former Benjamin Mazur Summer Research Professor, former associate and assistant professor of law at Northwestern University, former research associate at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, December 1995, “‘A Government of Limited and Enumerated Powers’: In Defense of United States v. Lopez,” published by the Michigan Law Review, volume 94 number 3, page 773)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sixth and finally ... augmented federal powers.</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Impacts: Liberty</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strong federalism is key to liberty, but their must be federal and state balance</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Somin 12 - Associate Professor at George Mason University School of Law, his research focuses on constitutional law, property law, and the study of popular political participation and its implications for constitutional democracy, - (Ilya,April 3rd, 2012, “Federalism, Freedom, and the Individual Mandate,” LexisNexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Joey] Fishkin has it ... the national level. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Impacts: Mass Violence</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unitary Government Structure ensures Violence</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calabresi 95 (Steven G. Calabresi, professor of law at Northwestern University, George C Dix Professor of Constitutional Law, BA cum laude from Yale University, JD from Yale University, co-founder of the Federalist Society, Chairman of the Federalist Society Board of Directors, editor of the American Journal of Comparative Law, member of the Oquosoc Angling Association, former advisor to Attorney General Edwin Meese III, former speechwriter for former Vice President Dan Quayle, former resident scholar at Harvard University, former Benjamin Mazur Summer Research Professor, former associate and assistant professor of law at Northwestern University, former research associate at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, December 1995, “‘A Government of Limited and Enumerated Powers’: In Defense of United States v. Lopez,” published by the Michigan Law Review, volume 94 number 3, page 759)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The bitter harvest ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> confederal transnational structures</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strong federalism is key to military strength </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bednar 5 - PhD from the University of Michigan, Dept of Political Science - (Jenna, June, 2005, “Constitutional Political Economy,” ProQuest)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the section ... on their own</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhand & Shi 11 - *Yuhan, a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C. *** AND*** Lin, Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry” [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Over the past ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;"> did international regimes </span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">Cap K (Lexington)</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prison rehabilitation is a tool to incorporate all masses into the capitalist order of the U.S.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams and Fish ’71 (Vergil L. Williams¶ School of Social Work, University of Alabama, Center for the Study of Crime, Delinquency and Corrections, Southern Illinois University, West Texas State University¶ Mary Fish¶ Graduate School of Business, University of Alabama, West Texas State University, University of Minnesota, Texas Technological College, University of Oklahoma, http://cad.sagepub.com/content/17/4/406)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">For two hundred ... who seek rehabilitation.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The drive to accumulate is the root cause of exploitation, imperialism, war and eco-doom – threatens our extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foster 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (John Bellamy, University of Oregon, “The Ecology of Destruction,” MONTHLY REVIEW, February 2007, www.monthlyreview.org/0207jbf.htm, accessed 3-27-08.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My intention here ... capitalist world economy,</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s capitalist domination. Only by withdrawing from the system can we hollow out capitalism and replace it with something else</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herod 4 (James Herod, Faculty at the University of Massachusetts, January 2004, Getting Free 4th edition, http://www.jamesherod.info/Getting_Free.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is time ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> even </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">to extinction.</span>




=March-April= 
==Equality Affirmative (CFL and NFL Quals)== 
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">V: Justice</span>
**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">First Principle</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">: Each person has the same indefeasible claim to a fully adequate scheme of equal basic liberties, which scheme is compatible with the same scheme of liberties for all;</span>
**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Second Principle</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">: Social and economic inequalities are to satisfy two conditions:</span>
# <span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">a. They are to be attached to offices and positions open to all under conditions of //fair equality of opportunity//;</span>
# <span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">b. They are to be to the greatest benefit of the least-advantaged members of society (the //difference principle//). (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kuper, Andrew. "Rawlsian Global Justice." Jstor. JSTOR, n.d. Web. 26 July </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.¶ <http://www.jstor.org/stable/192292>.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“I argue that ... among all citizens.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VC: Maximizing Global equality-</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">CT1: Democracy</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/experts/146/sean_m_lynnjones.html?back_url=%2Fpublication%2F2830%2Fwhy_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html&back_text=Back%20to%20publication|Sean M. Lynn-Jones]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">Editor of //International Security, R.J. Rummel, P.H.D Political Science//</span>
<span style="color: #1237ca; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/2830/why_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> 1998</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">Second, America should ...</span> transfer of power.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">Democracy stops war and increases prosperity</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glaeser, Harvard economics professor, 2009</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Edward, “Building walls with US trading partners”, 3-6, [[http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2009/03/06/building_walls_with_us_trading_partners/]], DOA: 4-12-12, ldg)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Few findings in ... prosperity supports democracy</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Democracy solves war.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diamond ‘95</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[Larry, professor of sociology and political science at Stanford University, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, December 1995, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and Instruments, Issues and Imperatives,” last accessed 10/10/10, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://carnegie.org/fileadmin/Media/Publications/PDF/Promoting%20Democracy%20in%20the%201990s%20Actors%20and%20Instruments,%20Issues%20and%20Imperatives.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">This hardly exhausts ... </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">prosperity can be built. </span>
==Contractualism Negative (CFL and NFL Quals)== 

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">V: Justice- defined by Plato as rendering each its due. The government’s first duty is to its citizens before it can look to another nations civilians.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">VC: Protecting the interests of US Citizens </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Governments must look to results of outcome not means</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goodin, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">fellow in philosophy at Australian National Defense University, **1990** (Robert, “The Utilitarian Response”, p. 141-2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My larger argument ... rules or conduct.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steven P. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">Lee </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Hobert and William Colleges. Lee, Steven P. Ethics and War: An Introduction. N.p.: Cambridge UP, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Print. Pages 18-19</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Another, very different, ... states they lead.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Any objection to contractualism can never truly be justified.</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Derek **Parfit**. Climbing The Mountain. 2009. Page 370.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Scanlonian Contractualism may ... are not wrong</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1. US intervention causes damage and danger to the citizens of the US through terrorism.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Intervention leads to terror—empirical studies prove</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eland, 2008 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Ivan. Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute. Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University and Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. “Reverend Wright Is Not Totally Wrong.” May 5. http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2182)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But what about ... and bigoted ravings.</span>