[[@2012-2013 - Alta (UT) - Michael Sirrine & Devin Criddle]][[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Inherency
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The U.S. is not investing in airborne aircraft carriers in the squo
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Col George D. Kramlinger, Summer2005. USAFA; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies; MA, Naval War College, is the commander, 612th Air Operations Group, Headquarters Twelfth Air Force, Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona. “Narrowing the Global-Strike Gap with an Airborne Aircraft Carrier,” Air & Space Power Journal, [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/sum05/kramlinger.html#kramlinger|http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/sum05/kramlinger.html#kramlinger]].
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
To bridge the global-strike gapuntil the next-generation long-range strike platform becomes available,
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
and an increased B-2 weapons load.The AAC option, however, is noticeably absent.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Lack of infrastructure investment for airfields is the critical flaw in current U.S. policy
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
John E.Flynn, Captain – Naval Reserve, “Joint and Allied Logistics Opportunities and Tools Supporting
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
21st Century War Fighter Rapid Decisive Operations,”2002, [[http://www.dodccrp.org/events/7th_ICCRTS/Tracks/pdf/106.pdf]]
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Logistics needs to focus on those key items that enable U.S. forces to establish and sustain presence.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Although the Army has emulated the Marine Corps and embraced the value of Afloat Pre-positioning Ships, the Army has not fully exploited the capabilities resident in FDNF.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Thus the plan: the United States Federal Government should substantially increase its funding for airborne aircraft carriers
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Advantage 1 Heg
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Air power is vital to maintain U.S. hegemony
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Major William K.Lewis, senior pilot in the T-37, T-38, AT-38 and F-15 Eagle, Distinguished Graduate of the Squadron Officer School and the Air Command and Staff College, and graduate of the School of Advanced Airpower Studies, June2002, “UCAV – THE NEXT GENERATION AIR-SUPERIORITY FIGHTER?”, school of advanced airpower studies @ Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Air superiority has been an enduring prerequisite to military victory during conflicts in the twenty-first century.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Air superiority will continue to be an essential military mission for the foreseeable future.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
It prevents the rise of emerging challengers to U.S. power
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Robert S. Dudney, Editor in Chief. “Airpower and Optical Illusions: Many still find it easy to discount the value of airpower” Air Force Magazine March 2005, Vol. 88, No. 3
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Airpower, in each case, proved valuable in unexpected ways. We will be glad to have such a flexible, hard-hitting weapon the next time we run into a nasty surprise, as we inevitably will.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
None of us can know what the future holds, and only a balanced mix of forces and capabilities will allow us to face that future with full confidence that our military will not fail us when we need it most.”
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
US reliance on land-and-sea based airpower transportation infrastructure make U.S. air superiority vulnerable – enables force denial by China, Iran, and North Korea
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Col George D. Kramlinger, Summer 2005. USAFA; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies; MA, Naval War College, is the commander, 612th Air Operations Group, Headquarters Twelfth Air Force, Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona. “Narrowing the Global-Strike Gap with an Airborne Aircraft Carrier,” Air & Space Power Journal, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/sum05/kramlinger.html#kramlinger.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
US Air Force bombers played key roles in Operations Allied Force, Enduring Freedom, and Iraqi Freedom.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Hampered by a limited B-2 inventory and an inability to operate stealth fighters over global range, the United States will face a global-strike gap if it confronts a vast and well-defended adversary in an access-challenged theater halfway around the world.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Scenario 1 China
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Taiwan independence coming
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
David A. Shlapak, Senior International Policy Analyst @ RAND, et al, 2009, “A Question of Balance,” RAND, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2009/RAND_MG888.pdf
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The factors described in this chapter present something of a mixed bag, and their collective impact, in terms of the future stability of the cross strait relationship, is somewhat unpredictable.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
In the heat of any future cross-strait crisis, this shift in the perceived balance of forces seems to remove an important impediment to Chinese use of force.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Draws in the U.S.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Michael Hanlon, Senior Fellow foreign Policy, 5-1-2005, ‘The Risk of War Over Taiwan is Real,” Brookings, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2005/0501asia_ohanlon.aspx
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
And as bizarre as it may seem, the US really would fight to prevent faraway Taiwan from being conquered.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
This goes for Democrats as well as Republicans; it was the Clinton administration, after all, that sent two aircraft carriers toward the Taiwan Strait in 1996 in reaction to China's firing of missiles near the island.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
China would use nuclear weapons – Taiwan is an existential issue, leads to extinction
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Straits Times(Singapore), June 25, 2000, No one gains in war over Taiwan
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Gen Ridgeway recalled that the biggest mistake the US made during the Korean War was to assess Chinese actions according to the American way of thinking.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Rapid and endurable bombers capacity is essential to prevent escalating Chinese nuclear use – loitering ability, sensors, intelligence capabilities prove the B-2 is significantly better than other assets
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Stephen Cambone, CSIS, and Colin Gray, The University of Hull (UK),1996, “The Role of Nuclear Forces in U.S. National Security Strategy: Implications of the B-2 bomber,” Comparative Strategy, 15: 207-231
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Relocatable or imprecisely located targets: This target category includesmobile ICBMs (e.g.. the Russian 55-25 and anticipatedChinese DF-31and DF-41 missiles). ground forces out of garrison, and targets “whose gencral location is known or at least highly suspected,
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Thus long-range manned bombers, which can exploit ongoing improvements in surveillance and rapid data transmissionand processing capabilities, offer the best-—if less than ideal—offensive means for dealing with mobile missiles.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Scenario 2 COIN
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Effective airpower is key to counter-insurgency success
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Maj. Gen. Charles J. Dunlap, deputy judge advocate general of the Air Force, 9-2006, “America’s asymmetric advantage,” Armed Forces Journal, http://www.armedforcesjournal.com/2006/09/2009013
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Today it is more than just bombingwith impunity that imposes demoralization; it is reconnoitering with impunity.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
It is no exaggeration to observe that almost every improvement in the military situation in Iraq and Afghanistan is attributable to air power in some form; virtually every setback, and especially the strategically catastrophic allegations of war crimes, is traceable to the land forces.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Current post-intervention reconstruction will fail to successfully utilize COIN
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Luján, Special Forces Major, ’12
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
[Fernando Luján, International Affairs Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations based at the Center for a New American Security, Major in the U.S. Special Forces, Served in the Pentagon's AfPak Hands program, “Beyond Groundhog Day,” Foreign Affairs; Jan/Feb 2012, Vol. 91 Issue 1, pg. 180-183]
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The real danger as the United States withdraws from Afghanistan and Iraq is that U.S. military commanders and civilian policymakers will purge the whole experience of counterinsurgency from institutional memory, as occurred in the aftermath of Vietnam, resetting the U.S. armed forces to fight large-scale wars against conventional enemies.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
To do any less is to embark on a "Groundhog Day" of the military's own making, denying the nature of today's security environment and condemning U.S. soldiers to repeat the mistakes of the past.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Scenario 3 Russia
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Russia is trying to expand its sphere of influence by selling mass weapons to its allies specifically Syria. Winning the revolution is key to stopping Russia
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Gorenburg 12
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Why Russia Supports Repressive Regimes in Syria and the Middle East PONARS Eurasia Policy Memo No. 198 June 2012 Dmitry Gorenburg Harvard University In recent months, Russia (with Chinese support) has increasingly staked out a strong position in support of the Assad regime in Syria.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Economic factors, including arms sales, are thus only the third most important reason for Russian support for Bashar al-2 Assad and other Middle Eastern authoritarian leaders facing popular revolts over the past year.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Russian Economic Interests in Syria
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Russia does have extensive economic interests in the Middle East, and especially in Syria.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Therefore, Russia’s economic interests in Syria can be maintained only if Assad defeats the opposition or there is a negotiated settlement.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Russian Political Interests in the Middle East
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Although Russian leaders are concerned about the potential impact of the Arab Spring on Russian economic interests, this is not the primary cause of their opposition to regime change in the Middle East.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The one remaining is the naval logistics facility in Tartus, Syria.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Russian Perception is key to its expansion
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Blank, 2k (Stephen, June, 2000, “U.S. MILITARY ENGAGEMENT WITH TRANSCAUCASIA AND CENTRAL ASIA,” strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, JPL)
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Russian perceptions of the Transcaspian’s are critical to its interests is tied to its continuing efforts to perpetuate and extend the vast disproportion in power it possesses relative to other CIS states.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
And the record to date of such efforts as the U.N. and OSCE have undertaken give little grounds for hoping that a regional balance can come about of its own accord or through their activities.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Russian war is THE scenario for extinction – evaluate this round based on magnitude – we control the only existential risk
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Bostrom, 02 -Ph.D. and Professor at Oxford University (Nick, March, [[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]])
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
This requires foresight to anticipate new types of threats and a willingness to take decisive preventive action and to bear the costs (moral and economic) of such actions.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
And, the timeframe is 30 minutes
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Helfand and Pastore 9 (Ira and John, past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”,[[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]]
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are scheduled to Wednesday in London during the G-20 summit.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Russia won’t stop US airpower expansion, Europe and empirics
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Gorenburg 12
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Why Russia Supports Repressive Regimes in Syria and the Middle East PONARS Eurasia Policy Memo No. 198 June 2012 Dmitry Gorenburg Harvard University
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
At the start of the Arab Spring, Russia was willing to accept Western intervention in Libya.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
This led to the Russian veto of a UN resolution that they worried would provide a pretext for another Western military intervention in the Middle East.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Advantage 2 is air mobility
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Airpower is the lynchpin of US military strategy
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AirandSpacePowerJournal March 10, 2003
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The reason for this emphasis on air and space power among our soldiers, sailors, and marines is their realization that military operations have little likelihood of success without it.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
It capitalizes on the explosion in computer, electronic, and materials technologies that so characterize the modern era. This is America's strength- one that we must ensure.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Upgrading strategic transportation systems boosts rapid response time and air mobility – that’s critical to crisis de-escalation
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
CBO, September 2005, Congressional Budget Office, “Options for Strategic Military Transportation Systems,” http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/66xx/doc6661/09-27-strategicmobility.pdf
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Since the end of World War II, the United States has maintained the ability to project combat power rapidly around the globe.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Several general approaches exist for speeding up the U.S. military’s response to crises, such as: A Better matching the locations of forward bases to locations where conflicts are likely to arise, B Redesigning ground combat and support units and their equipment to make them easier to transport, and C Improving strategic transportation forces.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Air mobility is the vital internal link to overall air power
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Richard J. Hazdra, Major, USAF, Fairchild Paper, Air University Press August 2001http://www.au.af.mil/au/aul/aupress/fairchild_papers/Hazdra/Hazdra.pdf//

//Since airlift was first used as a tool of national security during the Berlin airlift, it has grown to deliver passengers, cargo, and fuel to operations worldwide in support of national security.//

//AND//

//However, the time has come to review the force structure of AMC to determine if it can realistically continue to meet national security requirements.//


//Loss of rapid air mobility crushes deterrence and overall U.S. leadership//

//Richard J. Hazdra, Major, USAF, Fairchild Paper, Air University Press August 2001 http://www.au.af.mil/au/aul/aupress/fairchild_papers/Hazdra/Hazdra.pdf//

//Both Congress and the USAF itself have delayed desperately needed technological advances for AMC.//

//AND//

//If the United States fails to meet this challenge, it limits its ability to intervene in crises and, consequently, degrades its leadership position in the world.//


//Deterrence stops multiple scenarios for nuclear war//

//Zalmay Khalilzadand Ian O. Lesser. “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century: Regional Futures and U.S. Strategy,” 1998http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American air and space power will continue to remain critical for conventional and unconventional deterrence in Asia.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The third involves cases of prolonged domestic instability that may have either spillover or contagion effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Leadership key to prevent nuclear war
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Khalilizad 1995
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
(Zalmay Khalilzad, RAND Defense Analyst WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Spring 1995, p.84)
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
U.S leadership would help preclude the rise of another hostile global rival, enabling the United States and the world to avoid another global cold or hot war and all the attendant dangers, including a global nuclear exchange.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
U.S. leadership would therefore be more conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Heg solves power wars – bandwagoning checks conflict
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and Lin Shi, consultant for the Eurasia Group, 1-22-2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The alternative to U.S. hegemony is apolarity and global nuclear wars.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Ferguson 4 – Niall Ferguson, July/August 2004 “A World Without Power,” FOREIGN POLICY Issue 143
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
So what is left? Waning empires. Religious revivals. Incipient anarchy. A coming retreat into fortified cities.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
And far more dangerous forces than rival great powers would benefit from such a not-so-new world disorder.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Even if the world doesn’t become apolar, a multipolar world makes great power wars inevitable
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Wohlforth 9 – William Wohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College) 2009 “ Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War” Project Muse
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The upshot is a near scholarly consensus that unpolarity’s consequences for great power conflict are indeterminate and that a power shift resulting in a return to bipolarity or multipolarity will not raise the specter of great power war.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
High status is thus inherently scarce, and competitions for status tend to be zero sum.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
America will cling to a false unipolar reality post-transition
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Calleo 9 – David P. Calleo (University Professor at The Johns Hopkins University and Dean Acheson Professor at its Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS)) 2009 “Follies of Power: America’s Unipolar Fantasy” p. 4-5
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
It is tempting to believe that America’s recent misadventures will discredit and suppress our hegemonic longings and that, following the presidential election of 2008, a new administration will abandon them.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
When powerful and interdependent nations hold visions of the world severely at odds with one another, the world grows dangerous.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Solvency
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AACs solves global strike capacity—
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
a) Allows B-2 and UCAV rapid access in a crisis
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Col George D. Kramlinger, Summer 2005. USAFA; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies; MA, Naval War College, is the commander, 612th Air Operations Group, Headquarters Twelfth Air Force, Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona. “Narrowing the Global-Strike Gap with an Airborne Aircraft Carrier,” Air & Space Power Journal, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/sum05/kramlinger.html#kramlinger.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The Airborne Aircraft Carrier Solution To close such a gap, the Air Force should develop a fleet of airborne aircraft carriers (AAC) to allowstealthy fighters and unmanned combat aerial vehicles (UCAV) to protect, augment, and support the B-2 fleet.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Instead, a fleet of AACs will enable the marshalling of high-payoff “silver-bullet” strike packages at the strategic and operational levels of war early in a campaign as a means of overcoming access denial and setting conditions for the deployment and employment of theater-based conventional forces.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
b) Also ensures bomber survivability --- fighter support, SAM suppression, and radar jamming
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Col George D. Kramlinger, Summer 2005. USAFA; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies; MA, Naval War College, is the commander, 612th Air Operations Group, Headquarters Twelfth Air Force, Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona. “Narrowing the Global-Strike Gap with an Airborne Aircraft Carrier,” Air & Space Power Journal, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/sum05/kramlinger.html#kramlinger.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
To enhance effectiveness and survivability in a high-threat environment, B-2bombers must become part of a coordinated strike package that includes fighter support, SAM suppression, and escort jamming.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Stealthy UCAVs jamming S-300/400 radars and finding mobile SAM launchers will become as big an enabler for the B-2 as the P-51 was for the B-17 in World War II.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AACs would multiply the effectiveness of existing bomber capacity through enhanced transportation capability --- the plan restores U.S. air dominance and prevent a host of global WMD conflicts
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Col George D. Kramlinger, Summer 2005. USAFA; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies; MA, Naval War College, is the commander, 612th Air Operations Group, Headquarters Twelfth Air Force, Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona. “Narrowing the Global-Strike Gap with an Airborne Aircraft Carrier,” Air & Space Power Journal, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/sum05/kramlinger.html#kramlinger.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
In view of ever-expanding global interests, the growing importance of the geographically vast Asia-Pacific region, diminished reaction time, and the proliferation of antiaccess capabilities, the United States faces a global-strike gap.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Airborne aircraft carriers offer a cost-effective and practical method to close the global-strike gap in an access-denial environment.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Independently, Investment in airships would greatly enhance U.S. air mobility
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
CBO, September 2005, Congressional Budget Office, “Options for Strategic Military Transportation Systems,” http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/66xx/doc6661/09-27-strategicmobility.pdf
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Airships would be virtually independent of air bases and would be well suited to deliver combat-ready troops, along with their vehicles and other equipment, directly to their destination.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
High-speed ships could be designed to be less dependent on seaports and to transport cargo and passengers together, but such capabilities would probably result in higher costs for a given amount of throughput capacity.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]