**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 21px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">We are not free, we are liberation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">__Nikki Giovanni__: ‘I am Black, Female, Polite…’by peter Bailey, “Ebony” 19__72__</span>**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 24px; text-align: start;">**What can I ..... there are no other ways**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: medium; text-align: start;">[ Insert Lauryn Hill ]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: medium; text-align: start;">I get out; i get out of all your boxes</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: medium; text-align: start;">......</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: medium; text-align: start;">Thats how I choose to live</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">__Contention 1 Rage of the Fem__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: medium; text-align: start;">[ Insert Narrative ]</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 21px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">The Robbing of the Black female of her body is what set the stage for other violence to occur. Her body was exploited and her labor gave birth to commodity. Until today Black woman have no material or subjectivity to show and when she screams and yell she considered “crazy”.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">Frank B. Wilderson III from “Red, White, and Black Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms” pg 1and 2 2010.</span>**

**at Columbia __[[#|University]]__ .... calls her "crazy"**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 21px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">AND Womyn are fundamental to the construction of the intersections to oppression. To ignore this means continued capitalism, patriarchy, and white supremacy</span>**
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">Hartsock 98 Nancy, policy sci prof @ U of Washington the Feminist Standpoint Revisited and Other Essays Westview Press a Member of </span>__[[#|Perseus Books]]__, L.L.C. 1998 [page 22-23] DJ__

**We change our selves ..... justification for these structures**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 21px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">BUT Our Blackness marks us as invisible and we refuse to continue to be silent. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">Audre __Lorde__ Black feminist, Poet, Activist from “sister outsider” pg 42 __07__</span>**

**In the cause of silence .... still be no less afraid**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 21px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">SO Rage is necessary to resist oppression and the idea that we must repress our rage is part of the same system of exploitation and oppression which confines us to the limits of White society. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">bell h__ooks__, Black feminist and activist from “Killing Rage: Ending Racism “pg12 19__95__</span>**

**Like all profound repression......colonize, oppress, and exploit**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">__Advocacy__ </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">Tyler and I affirm our rage of the Black Womyn. Only through our counter hegemonic advocacy can democratic polices be implemented and structural impacts be solved.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">__Contention silencing of womyn__</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 21px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">We see the dim light shining at the end of the tunnel. We take the key first steps of individual action but only collective action can [[#|win]] the oppressive battle. The ballot is that representation of coalitions centering the Black Womyn and allows us to transform the larger community, political and economic institutions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">Patricia Hill __Collin__ Associate professor of Africana __[[#|studies]]__ at the __[[#|University]]__ of Cincinnati from Black feminist thought knowledge, consciousness, and the politics of empowerment.19__91__</span>**

**African American women have ....... transformation of political institutions**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 21px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">Traditional knowledge production within the debate community privileges those with institutional and economic power, while excluding other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of hip hop and narratives makes alternative forms function, knowledge production legitimate, and checks these functions of 'expert' discourse.</span>**
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">Reid-Brinkley 2008 [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83]</span>__

**debate claims are .... and expert discourse**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 21px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">Discourse is key to imagining and inventing a new reality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">McGregor 03 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px; text-align: start; vertical-align: baseline;">(Dr. Sue L. T. McGregor is Professor, __[[#|Department of Education]]__, Mount Saint Vincent University, "Critical Discourse Analysis-A Primer," www.kon.org/archives/forum/l5-l/mcgregorcda.html)</span>

**institutes and their ...... in a certain way**

**[ Insert Lauryn Hill ]**
**I wont be compromised no more**
**......**
**That's how I choose to live**