[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
Psychoanalysis K, XO CP, T-Space Development, Ex-Im Politics w/ naval power impact

2NR: ASW Turn, Case Defense

==1NC K== 

**The affirmative’s attempt to secure power against the irrational enemy is an attempt to ground the self – this only creates a self-fulfilling prophecy**
**Loy 2010** (David has a M.A. in Asian philosophy from the __[[home|University]]__ of Hawaii and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the National __[[home|University]]__ of Singapore. He is a professor on the Faculty of International Studies at Bunkyo University in Japan. “Healing Ecology” [[http://blogs.dickinson.edu/buddhistethics/files/2010/05/Loy-Healing-Ecology1.pdf]]) BW

So <span class="Underline">what does … </span>competition between group selves.

**Cycles of violence and nuclear extinction become inevitable – the ego numbs us to violence against others – interrogation of this must __[[home|start]]__ within**
Daisaku <span class="Heading2Char">Ikeda 2007</span>, Buddhist philosopher and president of Soka Gokkai International, “Restoring the Human Connection: The First Step to Global Peace,” http://www.sgi-uk.org/resources/PeaceProposal2007.pdf

Similarly, when I met with Mohamed ElBaradei… <span class="Underline">**nuclear weapons**</span>.

**The alternative is to shed the ego – the self is socially constructed, we recognize the true base of the self, which is an interconnected consciousness with all other beings**
Dale <span class="Heading2Char">Snauwaert</span>, Fall <span class="Heading2Char">2009</span> Associate Professor of Educational Theory and Social Foundations of __[[home|Education]]__; Chair of the Department of Foundations of __[[home|Education]]__, University of Toledo. “The Ethics and Ontology of Cosmopolitanism: Education for a Shared Humanity,” Current Issues in Comparative Education 12.1, [[http://www.tc.edu/cice/Issues/12.01/PDFs/12_01_Complete_Issue.pdf]].

What I want to achieve . . . is self-realization . . . …<span class="Underline"> fundamental interconnection</span>.

**Our investigation of mind-world dualism must be evaluated before substantive claims**
Patrick Thaddeus <span class="Heading2Char">Jackson 2010</span> Associate Professor of International Relations in the School of International Service at the American __[[home|University in Washington]]__, DC. “The Conduct of Inquiry in International Relations: Philosophy of Science and its Implications for the Study of World Politics,” p 41-2

<span class="Underline">Ontological commitments</span>, whether philosophical … <span class="Underline">-production procedures</span>.

==1NC DA== 

Ex-Im reauthorization will pass – Obama’s pushing but it’s a fight
**Politico 4-24**, ("Hill close to Ex-Im Bank deal," 2012, dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=D44CBBFD-718D-4935-B4D6-AB12FC55A6B7)

<span class="Underline">House leaders showed … when it returns May 7 from next week’s recess</span>.

**Plan Links**
**Corrin, 11.** (Amber Corrin is a staff writer covering defense and national security. March 11, 2011, “Fight brewing over DOD budget cuts,” [[http://defensesystems.com/Articles/2011/03/14/HOMEPAGE-Defense-fiscal-2012-budget-cuts.aspx?Page=1]])
Recent polls have shown that the … federal budget cuts overall.

PC’s key
**James 3-14**, policy analyst at the Cato Institute, (Sallie, "Expanding Ex-Im's Mandate Is A Big Mistake," [[http://www.cato.org/publications/free-trade-bulletin/expanding-exims-mandate-is-big-mistake|www.cato.org/publications/free-trade-bulletin/expanding-exims-mandate-is-big-mistake]]

Clearly the <span class="Underline">Obama</span> … <span class="Underline">many more.</span>

Key to naval dominance and leadership
**Henry 11**, Chairman, USA Maritime, (James, "Hearing on The Role of the Export-Import Bank in U.S. Competitiveness __[[home|and Job]]__ Creation," 3-10, [[http://www.trans-inst.org/pdf/DC-670719-v1-USA_Maritime_Final_Stateme_for_Ex-Im_Bank_Hearing.pdf|www.trans-inst.org/pdf/DC-670719-v1-USA_Maritime_Final_Stateme_for_Ex-Im_Bank_Hearing.pdf]]

USA Maritime, a coalition … <span class="Underline">owned U.S.-flag fleet.</span>

**<span style="color: #222222;">Naval power prevents great power war</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">England et. al, 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222;"> (By GORDON ENGLAND, JAMES L. JONES, AND VERN CLARK, Mr. England is a former secretary of the Navy. Mr. Jones is a former commandant of the Marine Corps. Mr. Clark is a former chief of naval operations, WSJ, 7/11/11, “The Necessity of U.S. Naval Power”)</span>

<span style="color: #222222;">All our citizens, and especially our servicemen and … of the future.</span>

==1NC Advantage 1== 

<span class="Underline">**The plan enhances antisubmarine warfare capabilities and allows continuous observation of submarines**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NRC 2005** (National Research Council, Naval Studies Board, Committee on the Navy's Needs in Space for Providing Future Capabilites, National Research Council, 2005, The Navy's Needs in Space for Providing Future Capabilities, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11299&page=88]])</span>

<span class="Underline">To maintain littoral superiority for naval and … observational persistence.</span>

<span class="Underline">**ASW expands counterforce potential—the impact is nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**SCHWARZ 2006** (Benjamin, former RAND analyst, “The Perils of Primacy,” Atlantic Magazine, Jan/Feb, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2006/01/the-perils-of-primacy/4526/2/]])</span>

<span class="Underline">Lieber and Press emphasize that their analysis doesn't … to inadvertent nuclear war.</span>

**No Risk of nuclear terror – 4 reasons**
States won’t give
No chance they can be stolen
If they are stolen we can stop it
Cant successfully attack
**Mearsheimer 11,** January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=3,

The fact is that states have … to peanuts.”

**No extinction from bioweapons**
**O’Neill 04 –** (Brendan, 8-19 “Weapons of Minimum Destruction” http://www.spiked-online.com/Articles/0000000CA694.htm)

David C Rapoport, professor of political science at … have not used WMD since.

**No chance of pak col**
[[http://www.csmonitor.com/About/Contact/Staff-Writers/Ben-Arnoldy|**Arnoldy**]] **09** - (Ben, Staff writer June 7, 2009 “Why the Taliban Won’t Takeover Pakistan” [[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2009/0607/p06s07-wosc.html/%28page%29/4]] )

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Islamabad, Pakistan</span>
It has become the statistic heard round the … Murtaza, a student at Quaid-i-Azam.

==1NC Advantage 2== 

**Doesn’t cause war**
**Bennett and Nordstrom 2000** – department of political science at Penn State

(D Scott and Timothy, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest, WEA)

Conflict __[[home|settlement]]__ is also a distinct route … with the United States.
**Democracies do not prevent war – their studies confuse correlation for causation**
**Hayes 11**—PhD at Georgia Institute of Technology
(Jarrod, “The Democratic Peace and the New Evolution of an Old Idea”, European Journal of International Relations, June 10, 2011, [[http://ejt.sagepub.com/%29/AW|http://ejt.sagepub.com/)//AW]]

In this critical overview, I argue that, while … and society. Explanation links rather than separates the structural and individual levels.

Illiberal democracies will inevitably transition
<span class="Heading2Char">Kupchan 98</span>, Professor of International Relations at Georgetown University and a Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, (Charles, “Illiberal Illusions; Restoring Democracy's Good Name; Democracy First” Foreign Affairs, May/June, Lexis)

Fareed <span class="underline0">Zakaria warns that the rise .., </span>
justifiably prefers.

=Round 2= 
==Plan== 
The United States federal <span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 26px;">government</span> should substantially increase its deployment of solar sails beyond the earths mesosphere
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heg</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heg is good</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 12 – </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a columnist for the Washington Post, served in the U.S. State department, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund ( Robert, 2012, “ Why the World Needs America” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html)bs</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">History shows</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that __world orders__, including…………__—which is what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.__ </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Social science proves </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wohlforth 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This is why such theories seem ………..</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">competitions </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">for status </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">tend to be zero sum</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.9</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Drezner 05</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, ………. force potentially more attractive, because of the minimization of spillover effects.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Controlling energy key to hard and soft power</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Padilla 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, [[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“We become just byperforming just actions, temperateby performingtemperateactions,bravebyperformingbraveactions,”saidAristotleover2,300yearsago. Today,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the U</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nited</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">St</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ates</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">faces</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">series</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">………</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">becomecriticallyhandicapped__.__</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roy et al 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">For cooling Earth, it does …….</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Terrestrial carbon burners, and even “nukes”, waste two-thirds of their fuel’s energy due to basic thermodynamic inefficiency.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Energy from space move us away from fossil fuel </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flournoy 11 - </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University (Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book) </span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">One of the</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> obvious __opportunities for solar power satellites ……..__ Sunsat business to guarantee a sustainable night-and-day fuel source. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Human spaceflight key to leadership – however the failing mission to mars is causing a decline </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wolfgang 11/15</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Ben, national reporter for The Washington Times [“Budgeting woes could derail U.S. role in space exploration” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/nov/15/budgeting-woes-could-derail-us-role-in-space-explo/] </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The days of U.S. leadership in space …… to fly space missions that were once the domain of NASA.”</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solar sails allow us to complete the Mars mission – also allows for a base to be created</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 7 -</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> is cofounder of The Planetary Society. In the 1970s he worked at JPL on deep space missions, including Mariner-VenusMercury, Voyager and Magellan ( Louis June 2007, “ Making light work Theory evolves toward practice—high-speed travel in the frictionless medium of space.” [[http://planetary.org/programs/projects/solar_sailing/pro_pilot_0607.pdf,bs]]) </span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solar sailing offers</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> a practical means …….. and returning material to Earth for study. </span>__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction of Earth is inevitable – only Mars Colonization solves </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davies 10</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and Schulze-Makuch (Dirk Schulze-Makuch, Ph.D., School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Washington State University and Paul Davies, Ph.D., Beyond Center, Arizona State University, “To Boldly Go: A One-Way Human Mission to Mars”, [[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars108.html]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are several reasons ……… with current chemical rocket technology.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Human space flight is key to American credibility </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Logsdon 7 - director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University (March 2007, Dr. John Logsdon, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">human ………… U</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">nited </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">tates </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">as a great country</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This makes the US seem benign – solves for the reasons hegemony is bad</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jervis 09 </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To say that the system is unipolar is not ………e American vision and believe that its leadership is benign.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC The band </span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of bandwidth is constraining arctic gas exploration and production</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> NSR ‘11</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Northern Sky Research, Industry Briefing, “The Digital Oilfield: Rising Bandwidth Demand, Consolidation and the HTS Puzzle,” 5-24-2011, [[http://www.nsr.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=444&catid=102&Itemid=175]])</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Recent discoveries in ……..</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> be the door that opens new revenue streams as O&G end-users push further into the frontiers of connectivity.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New satellite communications capability is key</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Jarrold ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Martin Jarrold, Chief of International Program Development, Global VSAT Forum, “Dynamics in the “Oil & Gas Patch”,” Sat Magazine, March 2008, [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=724995289]])</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> As</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">a supplier of essential services to the ……….</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> from the</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">subterranean and</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">subsea</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">depths of the planet</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>







**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2 Internal Links – </span>**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Natural outgassing – the ocean is already too warm to sustain frozen methane hydrates – wide-scale melting is inevitable and underway**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nissen ‘11</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(John Nissen, Chairman, Arctic Methane Emergency Working Group, geoengineering expert; other contributors & members: Peter Wadhams, Professor of ocean physics at Cambridge University, Stephen Salter, Emeritus Professor of Engineering Design at Edinburgh University, Dr. Brian Orr, former Principal Scientific Officer, Department of the Environment, Peter Carter, Sam Carana, Anthony Cook, Gary Houser, Jon Hughes, and Graham Ennis; “Arctic Methane Alert,” December 2011,[[http://www.vmine.net/scienceinparliament/specials/12.pdf]])</span>




__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Until now, governments have been ……</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> This will also interact with deeper waters and lead to the increasing of summer temperature to positive (above freezing).”</span>






**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only extraction solves</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Cohen ‘10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> MBA, B.Sc., (Chem. Eng.) PR.Eng</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd. (Dave, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517]])</span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Well, of course, this makes sense. </span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">………..—</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">to cause natural degassing</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Second,**</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Exploration avoids drilling accidents</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Adam ‘5 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PhD in chemical engineering, science correspondent, worked at the science journal Nature</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> (Dave science correspondent, The Guardian (UK), “US in race to unlock new energy source,” 4-3-2005,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2005/apr/04/usnews.science]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>




<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Its new project will see the drilling vessel ….. tied to our future national energy security."</span>






**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, new extraction technology is safe – beginning production as soon as possible is the only way to avoid massive methane release</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rennie ‘11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> editor in chief of Scientific American, adjunct instructor in the graduate Science, Health and Environmental Reporting Program recipient of the Sagan Award for Public Understanding of Science, bestowed by the Council of Scientific Society Presidents awarded Navigator Award for distinguished service in support of national science and technology policy (John Rennie, “Energy from Methane Hydrates: Better to Burn Out than Fade Away,” The Gleaming Retort, 6-1-2011,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://blogs.plos.org/retort/2011/06/01/energy-from-methane-hydrates-better-to-burn-out-than-fade-away/]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __Estimates of how much methane …...__</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Better to burn some of their methane in the short run, and suffer a CO2-driven aggravation of greenhouse problems en route to a more sustainable energy solution, than to continue with the energy status quo and wait for melting hydrates to worsen the climate problem for us</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>







**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Methane release causes extinction – outweighs nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Ryskin ‘3</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> (Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION ….. __implicated in the nuclear winter scenario__ (Turco et al., 1991). </span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Any risk of methane release controls your impact calculus – it’s the most probable and only empirical extinction event, and accesses an invisible threshold</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Dorritie ‘7</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,”Killer in our Midst, 2007, [[http://www.killerinourmidst.com/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deep beneath the surface of the …….__.__</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Remedial action is still possible, but the likelihood of catastrophe becomes more certain with each passing year</span>__**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves </span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ceriotti and McInnes 11 - </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dr. Matteo Ceriotti received his M.Sc. summa cum laude from Politecnico di Milano (Italy) in 2006 with a thesis on planning and scheduling for planetary exploration. In 2010, he received his Ph.D. on ‘‘Global Optimisation of Multiple Gravity Assist Trajectories’’ from the Department of Aerospace Engineering of the University of Glasgow, United Kingdom. Since 2009, Matteo is a research fellow at the Advanced Space Concepts Laboratory, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow (<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.strath.ac/|http://www.strath.ac]]</span>. uk/space), leading the research theme ‘‘Orbital Dynamics of Large Gossamer Spacecraft’’. The current research topic is non-Keplerian motion of spacecraft with hybrid solar sail and solar electric propulsion. His main research interests are space mission analysis and trajectory design, orbital dynamics, trajectory optimisation, and spacecraft autonomy. He is AIAA member Colin McInnes is a Director of the Advanced Space Concepts Laboratory at the University of Strathclyde. His work spans highly nonKeplerian orbits, orbital dynamics and mission applications for solar sails, spacecraft control using artiﬁcial potential ﬁeld methods and is reported in over 100 journal papers. Recent work is exploring new approaches to spacecraft orbital dynamics at extremes of spacecraft length-scale to underpin future space-derived products and services. McInnes has been the recipient of awards including the Royal Aeronautical Society Pardoe Space Award (2000), the Ackroyd Stuart Propulsion Prize (2003) and a Leonov medal by the International Association of Space Explorers (2007). ( 6/15/11 “ Hybrid solar sail and solar electric propulsion for novel Earth observation missions$” ScienceDirect,bs)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;"> __Geostationary spacecraft provide a continuous__ ……..__to interplanetary transfers [17], to displaced periodic orbits in the Earth–Moon system__ [18]. In addition, IKAROS is exploiting hybrid propulsion [7] </span>

=Round 3= 

1NC: T-Human, K, Russia DA, Case

2NR: K



1NC T

**Space development isn’t robotics**
**Livingston 2007** – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])
__Eric Westling is a__ __science writer__, pundit on science, technology, and economics.
…
__space__ . **__He defines space development as the rapid expansion of__** manned **__(staffed) commercial projects in space__**.

**Exploration means to expand human presence to space**
**Logsdon, 9 –** professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight //Why Is There Still a Controversy?,”// [[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])
Exploration as a Compelling Rationale
Many believe that the only sustainable rationale for a government-funded program of human spaceflight is to take
…
“primary objectives” of national pride and prestige, and also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”
***Gender Modified***

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Vote neg for limits – including robotic missions explodes the lit base to any small affs that don’t link to DAs – makes being neg impossible</span>**</span>


1NC K

**The affirmative’s attempt to secure power via controlling launches is an attempt to ground the self – this only creates a self-fulfilling prophecy**
**Loy 2010** (David has a M.A. in Asian philosophy from the University of Hawaii and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the National University of Singapore. He is a professor on the Faculty of International Studies at Bunkyo University in Japan. “Healing Ecology” [[http://blogs.dickinson.edu/buddhistethics/files/2010/05/Loy-Healing-Ecology1.pdf]]) BW
So <span class="Underline">what does Buddhism have to offer us today, as we struggle to respond to the eco-crisis?</span>
…
Obviously, a lot of the world’s problems occur because of competition between group selves.

**Cycles of violence and nuclear extinction become inevitable – the ego numbs us to violence against others – interrogation of this must start within**
Daisaku <span class="Heading2Char">Ikeda 2007</span>, Buddhist philosopher and president of Soka Gokkai International, “Restoring the Human Connection: The First Step to Global Peace,” http://www.sgi-uk.org/resources/PeaceProposal2007.pdf
Similarly, when I met with Mohamed __ElBaradei__, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency
…
<span class="Underline">**makes inevitable the birth of such demonic progeny as nuclear weapons**</span>.

**The alternative is to shed the ego – the self is socially constructed, we recognize the true base of the self, which is an interconnected consciousness with all other beings**
Dale <span class="Heading2Char">Snauwaert</span>, Fall <span class="Heading2Char">2009</span> Associate Professor of Educational Theory and Social Foundations of Education; Chair of the Department of Foundations of Education, University of Toledo. “The Ethics and Ontology of Cosmopolitanism: Education for a Shared Humanity,” Current Issues in Comparative Education 12.1, [[http://www.tc.edu/cice/Issues/12.01/PDFs/12_01_Complete_Issue.pdf]].
What I want to achieve . . . is self-realization . . . I live and move and have my being in pursuit
…
<span class="Underline">nonviolence, the essence of morality, rests upon an awareness of our fundamental interconnection</span>.

**Our investigation of mind-world dualism must be evaluated before substantive claims**
Patrick Thaddeus <span class="Heading2Char">Jackson 2010</span> Associate Professor of International Relations in the School of International Service at the American University in Washington, DC. “The Conduct of Inquiry in International Relations: Philosophy of Science and its Implications for the Study of World Politics,” p 41-2
<span class="Underline">Ontological commitments</span>, whether philosophical or scientific, <span class="Underline">logically precede substantive </span>
<span class="Underline">…</span>
<span class="Underline">connected to questions of war and peace, we would have to engage in some other kinds of knowledge-production procedures</span>.


===Cp=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should ratify and fully accede to the Montreal Protocol and ban the use of nitric acid and perchlorate for space launched**

**US ratification key to make the Montreal Protocol effective – solves atmospheric pollution**
**Houder ‘3** [Vanessa. London-Based Environmental Consultant for the Financial Times. 18 Nov 03 ln//GBS-JV]//
//David Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council, a US environment group,//
//…//
//who worked hard to overcome doubts about its scientific basis, technical solutions and costs.//



//1NC DA//

//**Cuts to Constellation have created space for international cooperation – solves the aff and promotes cooperation on earth**//
//**Zak ’10** [Tony, Space Historian, “End of Constellation: It is Not All Doom and Gloom” [[http://www.russianspaceweb.com/|www.russianspaceweb.com]], Summer 2010//GBS-JV]
Even <span style="text-decoration: none;">before the White House made a proposal</span> on Feb. 1, 2010,
<span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">even in case of a major failure in one of the systems.</span>

**We’re cooperating because of __declining capabilities__ – plan removes the rationale**
**Fukushima** – Analyst at the National Institute for Defense Studies – **’11** [Yasuhito. “An Asian Perspective on the Ne US Space Policy: The Emphasis on International Cooperation and its Relevance to Asia” __Space Policy__, Vol 27. Spring 2011. Ebsco//GBS-JV]//
//Leveraging the increasing opportunities to work together with other countries is not the only aim//
//…//
//<span style="text-decoration: none;">promote transparency in civil service provision, and enable market access for US industry</span>.”//

//**Key to relations**//
//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Logsdon and Millar 01</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> – (February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University, [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf]] DH) </span>//
//Yet, to one participant, "If nothing else, __good relations in__ the area//
//…//
//us. But __by keeping them involved__ in the space program __we are__ at least __giving them a psychological fig leaf."__//

//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Grocery list of impacts</span>**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Allison and Blackwill 10-31</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">, Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School and a former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert, Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration [“10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters,” [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1011/67178_Page2.html]]] HURWITZ</span>//
//<span style="text-decoration: none;">That central point is that </span><span class="Underline">Russia matters a great deal to</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> a </span>//
//<span class="Underline">…</span>//
//<span class="Underline">to identify nations that matter more to U.S. success, or failure</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">, in advancing our national interests.</span>//


//1NC Environment//

//**No Extinction –**//

//**a.) Scientifically disproven**//
//**Dodds 2K** - M.S. P.E., President of North Pacific Research (Donald, “The Myth of Biodiversity”)//

//Biodiversity is a corner stone of the environmental movement. But __there is no proof that biodiversity is important to the environment. Something withou__t basis//
//…//
//<span class="Underline">The little black line outside of the left edge of the graph is 10 million years. Notice the left end of this graph</span>. Biodiversity has never been higher than it is today.//
//**b.) Empirically denied**//
//**Moore 98** – (Thomas Gale, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, __Climate of Fear__, 98-99)//

//Nevertheless, the loss of a class of living beings does not typically//
//…//
//__a symbiotic species need not fear the loss of its partner. As long as the host remains, so will parasites and symbiotic species.__//

//**No impact to Ozone**//
//**Ring 09** (Meteorologist in New Zealand “The Nonsense that is Ozone Depletion.” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.ourcivilisation.com/ozone/king.htm</span>)//
//__There is not a 'layer' of ozone at all, any more than there is single__//
//…//
//depletion-area size seemed to correspond with increases in sunspot activity, which throws out more UV radiation//

//**No impact radiation**//
//**Luckey 3**—Ph.D. in biochemistry, former professor (T.D., RSO Magazine ▪ Volume 8, Number 4, “Radiation Hormesis Overview*”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.radpro.com/641luckey.pdf</span>)//
//The conclusion is this: __we live with a subclinical deficiency of ionizing radiation.__//
//…//
//Convincing evidence shows that safe supplementation with low doses of ionizing radiation would produce a new plateau of health.//


//1NC Launches//

//<span class="Heading2Char">Empirical studies prove economic decline does not cause war</span>//

//**Miller 2k** (Morris, economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, Winter Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, “Poverty as a cause of wars?” 273)//

//The question may be reformulated. <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Do wars spring from a popular reaction </span>//
//…//
//dictatorships and semidemocracies, <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">the ruling elites responded to crises by increasing repression</span> (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).//

//**Doesn’t cause war**//
//**Bennett and Nordstrom 2000** – department of political science at Penn State//

//(D Scott and Timothy, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest, WEA)//
//Conflict settlement is also a distinct route to dealing with internal problems//
//…//
//__Socialist Republics could no longer compete economically with the U__nited __S__tates.//

//**Eurozone breakup inevitable and tanks the economy**//
//**Kavoussi 11-28 –** a business reporter at The Huffington Post,. She has written for The// <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Boston Globe</span>//, The// <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">New York Observer</span>//, and The// <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">San Antonio Express-News</span>//., she is a recent graduate of Harvard University, where she studied international economic history and the history of economic thought (Bonnie, “Eurozone Crisis Threatens Global Economy” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/28/eurozone-crisis_n_1116977.html]]) Jacome//
//As a __breakup of the eurozone__ -- a once seemingly impossible scenario –//
//__…__//
//European banks provide about three-quarters of all loans to emerging markets, according to Tilford, and a breakup of the eurozone would cause many European banks to either fail or slash lending.//

//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Turn – US reliance on the Soyuz spacecraft allows Russia to flex its muscles in space.</span>**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Tucker 11</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> – (4/10/11, Randy, Dayton Daily News, “After shuttle, U.S. would pay Russia for space access,” </span>[[http://www.daytondailynews.com/news/dayton-news/after-shuttle-u-s-would-pay-russia-for-space-access-1132215.html]] DH)//
//<span class="Underline">Shelving the shuttle program has also forced NASA to rely on </span>//
//<span class="Underline">…</span>//
//<span class="Underline">with Russia’s plans to send a cargo ship to the International Space Station.</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> The Endeavour is now scheduled to lift off on April 29. </span>//

//**Decline of Russian space competitiveness causes missile prolif—Russian spare capacity will be used for military production**//
//**Vaknin 05** – (Dec. 2005, Sam, PhD, writer, author of extensive profressional articles on economics and finance, and Editor in Chief of Global Politician, former member of the IDF, “Pinks in Space The Space Industry in Central and Eastern Europe,” [[http://samvak.tripod.com/pp126.html]] DH)//
//__The dark side of Russia's space industry is its sales of missile technology__//
//__…__//
//__The resulting brain drain was crippling. More than 35 percent of all workers left - and more than half of all the experts.__//

//**The impact is NBC war in the Middle East**//
//**SAID 2001** (Maj. Gen. (ret.) Dr Mohamed Kadry Said is Head of the Military Studies Unit and Technology Advisor at the Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies (Cairo), Professor of Missile Flight Mechanics at the Military Technical College (Cairo), and member of the committee for strategic planning in the Egyptian Council for Space Research, Science and Technology, “Missile Proliferation in the Middle East: a Regional Perspective,” http://www.unidir.ch/pdf/articles/pdf-art75.pdf)//
//__The Middle East.s experience with ballistic missiles is unique compared__//
//__…__//
//__leading to conflict with nuclear, biological or chemical warheads will increase__.//

//**Soft power low – American human rights record and inevitable decline of the economy – the neg doesn’t do anything to change the squo.**//
//**Mahbubani 6/23** -- a former Singapore diplomat and now dean of the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore (Kishore, transcript of a discussion involving Mahbubani, Nye, and Moyo, published in NYT opinion, NYT, “The Seesaw of Power.” Discussion moderated by Serge Schmemann. [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/24/opinion/global/24iht-june24-ihtmag-nye-36.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1]])//
//Mahbubani : Let me put across a very different point of view from what Joe said about the United States. Again, I always emphasize that America has done more good than harm to the world. But at the same time//
//__…__//
//__The rest of the world, paradoxically, is more ready than Americans for a globalization that Americans themselves are creating__.//

//**Cant change it**//
//**Gray 11** – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, England. (Colin S., April, “HARD POWER AND SOFT POWER: THE UTILITY OF MILITARY FORCE AS AN INSTRUMENT OF POLICY IN THE 21ST CENTURY.” Published by Strategic Studies Institute)//

//Moreover, __no contemporary U.S. government owns all of America’s soft power__//
//__…__//
//history that shape their interpretation of American-authored words and deeds, past and present.43//

//**No impact to soft power – believers exaggerate benefits – hard power is comparatively more important**//
//**Gray 11** – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, England. (Colin S., April, “HARD POWER AND SOFT POWER: THE UTILITY OF MILITARY FORCE AS AN INSTRUMENT OF POLICY IN THE 21ST CENTURY.” Published by Strategic Studies Institute)//

//__Soft power____is__ potentially a __dangerous__ idea not because it is unsound//
//…//
//by the evidence of national deeds that appear to contradict our cultural persona.//

//Solvency//
//**1. Environmental destruction is not inevitable, but if we “get off the rock” it is—extinction.**//
//Williams, 10 (Lynda, professor of physics, San Francisco State U; “Irrational Dreams of Space Colonization”// The Peace Review//; Spring 2010; [[http://www.scientainment.com/lwilliams_peacereview.pdf]])
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Life on Earth is more urgently threatened by the **destruction of the biosphere** </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">…</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">we can then venture off the planet into the final frontier of our dreams.</span>

**2. Space colonization causes asteroid terrorism – extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char">Singer</span>**, 01** (Clifford E., professor of nuclear engineering and director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign, Spring 2001, Swords and Ploughshares, http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/homepage_docs/pubs_docs/S&P_docs/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm
However the __[[home|technology]]__ to build isolated extraterrestrial settlements
…
in space are sufficiently numerous or far flung would such a possibility effectively be ruled out, primarily by physical considerations.

**3. Space exploration will cause superdiseases – Earth bacteria rapidly mutate**
<span class="Heading2Char">O’Neill, 2008</span> (Ian, “Germs Living In Space,” Universe Today, 3-11-2008, [[http://www.universetoday.com/2008/03/11/germs-living-in-space-almost-three-times-as-likely-to-cause-disease/]], GDI11)
In one experiment on board Space Shuttle Endeavor (STS-123) launched early
…
benign Staphylococcus genus which has mutated to resist commonly used antibiotics.

**b) Unchecked disease causes extinction**
**South China Morning Post,** **96** (Dr. Ben Abraham= “called "one of the 100 greatest minds in history" by super-IQ society Mensa” and owner of “Toronto-based biotechnology company, Structured Biologicals Inc” according to same article, 1/4/1996)
Despite the importance of the discovery of the "facilitating" cell, it is not what Dr Ben-Abraham
…
infect humanity at a large scale and imperil the survival of the human race," he said.

4. Colonization will lead to alien contact
<span class="Underline">Lombardo, 8 </span>(Tom, <span class="Underline">**founder and Executive Director of the Center for Future Consciousness,** </span>Space Exploration and Cosmic Evolution, 4/10/8, p. 2, accessed 6/28/11)
It is clear why traveling into outer space holds such great
…
to the infinities of existence.

**Extraterrestrials would use gravity weapons in warfare—outweighs nuclear war—Earth demagnetization causes extinction.**
**IDTT, 08** (India Daily Technology Team, Gravity wave applications in Air Force – the technologies reverse engineered from Extraterrestrial UFOs, India Daily, 1.30.2008, [[http://www.indiadaily.com/editorial/18998.asp]])
<span class="Underline">The interaction of gravity waves and times form the basis of stability</span>
…
<span class="Underline">barren red planet</span>. <span class="Underline">Mars may have observed the effects of detaching time from space in a local area</span>.

**Their argument is based on faulty social science – humans use resources effectively which breaks resource barrier challenges**
Allouche 11 – Institute of Development Studies, UK (Jeremy, January 2011, "The sustainability and resilience of global water and food systems: Political analysis of the interplay between security, resource scarcity, political systems and global tradestar, open," Food Policy, Volume 36, Supplement 1, January 2011, Pages S3-S8, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306919210001272]])
The question of resource scarcity has led to many debates on whether scarcity
…
__suffered because during the last two centuries humankind has breached many resource barriers that seemed unchallengeable.__

Even if water conflicts do occur – they are over allocation – scarcity only fosters cooperation
Allouche 11 – Institute of Development Studies, UK (Jeremy, January 2011, "The sustainability and resilience of global water and food systems: Political analysis of the interplay between security, resource scarcity, political systems and global tradestar, open," Food Policy, Volume 36, Supplement 1, January 2011, Pages S3-S8, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306919210001272]]) Jacome
__The fear around water wars have been driven__
__…__
__argued that scarcity drives the process of co-operation among riparians__ ([[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306919210001272#b0090|[Dinar and Dinar, 2005]]] and [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306919210001272#b0055|[Brochmann and Gleditsch, 2006]]]).

**No Impact – Water disputes happen within countries, and is more likely to lead to cooperation – empirics**
Brooks and Linton 2K – Senior Advisor in the Program and Partnership Branch of the International Development Research Centre in Ottawa, and * freelance writer who specializes in water issues (David B. and Jamie, July 2000, Globe and Mail “Drinking (Water) With Your Enemy”, http://idl-bnc.idrc.ca/dspace/bitstream/10625/18677/1/116118.pdf)

As Israelis and Palestinians approach final status talks,
…
__for most of us, water's greatest value may be the way it brings people together.__







=Round 4= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 15px;">government</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> should substantially increase its deployment of solar sails beyond the earths mesosphere</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Round 2-Heg]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heg</span></span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Heg is good</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 12 – </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a columnist for the Washington Post, served in the U.S. State department, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund ( Robert, 2012, “ Why the World Needs America”[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html)bs]]</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">History shows</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> that __world orders__, including…………__—which is what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.__ </span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Social science proves </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wohlforth 09</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">This is why such theories seem ………..</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">competitions </span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">for status </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">tend to be zero sum</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">.9</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Drezner 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, ………. force potentially more attractive, because of the minimization of spillover effects.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Controlling energy key to hard and soft power</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Padilla 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010,[[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">“We become just byperforming just actions, temperateby performingtemperateactions,bravebyperformingbraveactions,”saidAristotleover2,300yearsago. Today,</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">the U</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">nited</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">St</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">ates</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">faces</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">a</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">series</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">………</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">becomecriticallyhandicapped__.__</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Roy et al 11 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS”[[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">For cooling Earth, it does …….</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">. Terrestrial carbon burners, and even “nukes”, waste two-thirds of their fuel’s energy due to basic thermodynamic inefficiency.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Energy from space move us away from fossil fuel </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Flournoy 11 - </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University (Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book) </span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">One of the</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> obvious __opportunities for solar power satellites ……..__ Sunsat business to guarantee a sustainable night-and-day fuel source. </span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Human spaceflight key to leadership – however the failing mission to mars is causing a decline </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wolfgang 11/15</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">, Ben, national reporter for The Washington Times [“Budgeting woes could derail U.S. role in space exploration” [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/nov/15/budgeting-woes-could-derail-us-role-in-space-explo/]]] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The days of U.S. leadership in space …… to fly space missions that were once the domain of NASA.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Solar sails allow us to complete the Mars mission – also allows for a base to be created</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 7 -</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> is cofounder of The Planetary Society. In the 1970s he worked at JPL on deep space missions, including Mariner-VenusMercury, Voyager and Magellan ( Louis June 2007, “ Making light work Theory evolves toward practice—high-speed travel in the frictionless medium of space.”[[http://planetary.org/programs/projects/solar_sailing/pro_pilot_0607.pdf,bs]]) </span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Solar sailing offers</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> a practical means …….. and returning material to Earth for study. </span>__

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction of Earth is inevitable – only Mars Colonization solves </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davies 10</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> and Schulze-Makuch (Dirk Schulze-Makuch, Ph.D., School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Washington State University and Paul Davies, Ph.D., Beyond Center, Arizona State University, “To Boldly Go: A One-Way Human Mission to Mars”, [[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars108.html]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">There are several reasons ……… with current chemical rocket technology.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Human space flight is key to American credibility </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Logsdon 7 - director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University (March 2007, Dr. John Logsdon, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">human ………… U</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">nited </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">tates </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">as a great country</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This makes the US seem benign – solves for the reasons hegemony is bad</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jervis 09 </span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">To say that the system is unipolar is not ………e American vision and believe that its leadership is benign.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Round 2-1AC The band]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC The band</span></span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Lack of bandwidth is constraining arctic gas exploration and production</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">NSR ‘11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Northern Sky Research, Industry Briefing, “The Digital Oilfield: Rising Bandwidth Demand, Consolidation and the HTS Puzzle,” 5-24-2011, [[http://www.nsr.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=444&catid=102&Itemid=175]])</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Recent discoveries in ……..</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> be the door that opens new revenue streams as O&G end-users push further into the frontiers of connectivity.</span>




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">New satellite communications capability is key</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Jarrold ‘8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Martin Jarrold, Chief of International Program Development, Global VSAT Forum, “Dynamics in the “Oil & Gas Patch”,” Sat Magazine, March 2008, [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=724995289]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">As</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">a supplier of essential services to the ……….</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> from the</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">subterranean and</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">subsea</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">depths of the planet</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2 Internal Links – </span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Natural outgassing – the ocean is already too warm to sustain frozen methane hydrates – wide-scale melting is inevitable and underway**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nissen ‘11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">(John Nissen, Chairman, Arctic Methane Emergency Working Group, geoengineering expert; other contributors & members: Peter Wadhams, Professor of ocean physics at Cambridge University, Stephen Salter, Emeritus Professor of Engineering Design at Edinburgh University, Dr. Brian Orr, former Principal Scientific Officer, Department of the Environment, Peter Carter, Sam Carana, Anthony Cook, Gary Houser, Jon Hughes, and Graham Ennis; “Arctic Methane Alert,” December 2011,[[http://www.vmine.net/scienceinparliament/specials/12.pdf]])</span>




__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Until now, governments have been ……</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> This will also interact with deeper waters and lead to the increasing of summer temperature to positive (above freezing).”</span>






**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Only extraction solves</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Cohen ‘10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> MBA, B.Sc., (Chem. Eng.) PR.Eng</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd. (Dave, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517]])</span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Well, of course, this makes sense. </span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">………..—</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">to cause natural degassing</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Second,**</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Exploration avoids drilling accidents</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Adam ‘5 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">PhD in chemical engineering, science correspondent, worked at the science journal Nature</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">(Dave science correspondent, The Guardian (UK), “US in race to unlock new energy source,” 4-3-2005,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2005/apr/04/usnews.science]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Its new project will see the drilling vessel ….. tied to our future national energy security."</span>






**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">And, new extraction technology is safe – beginning production as soon as possible is the only way to avoid massive methane release</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rennie ‘11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> editor in chief of Scientific American, adjunct instructor in the graduate Science, Health and Environmental Reporting Program recipient of the Sagan Award for Public Understanding of Science, bestowed by the Council of Scientific Society Presidents awarded Navigator Award for distinguished service in support of national science and technology policy (John Rennie, “Energy from Methane Hydrates: Better to Burn Out than Fade Away,” The Gleaming Retort, 6-1-2011,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://blogs.plos.org/retort/2011/06/01/energy-from-methane-hydrates-better-to-burn-out-than-fade-away/]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">__Estimates of how much methane …...__</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Better to burn some of their methane in the short run, and suffer a CO2-driven aggravation of greenhouse problems en route to a more sustainable energy solution, than to continue with the energy status quo and wait for melting hydrates to worsen the climate problem for us</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>







**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Methane release causes extinction – outweighs nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Ryskin ‘3</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> (Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION ….. __implicated in the nuclear winter scenario__ (Turco et al., 1991). </span>





**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Any risk of methane release controls your impact calculus – it’s the most probable and only empirical extinction event, and accesses an invisible threshold</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Dorritie ‘7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,”Killer in our Midst, 2007, [[http://www.killerinourmidst.com/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Deep beneath the surface of the …….__.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Remedial action is still possible, but the likelihood of catastrophe becomes more certain with each passing year</span>__</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ceriotti and McInnes 11 - </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dr. Matteo Ceriotti received his M.Sc. summa cum laude from Politecnico di Milano (Italy) in 2006 with a thesis on planning and scheduling for planetary exploration. In 2010, he received his Ph.D. on ‘‘Global Optimisation of Multiple Gravity Assist Trajectories’’ from the Department of Aerospace Engineering of the University of Glasgow, United Kingdom. Since 2009, Matteo is a research fellow at the Advanced Space Concepts Laboratory, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[@http://www.strath.ac/|http://www.strath.ac]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">. uk/space), leading the research theme ‘‘Orbital Dynamics of Large Gossamer Spacecraft’’. The current research topic is non-Keplerian motion of spacecraft with hybrid solar sail and solar electric propulsion. His main research interests are space mission analysis and trajectory design, orbital dynamics, trajectory optimisation, and spacecraft autonomy. He is AIAA member Colin McInnes is a Director of the Advanced Space Concepts Laboratory at the University of Strathclyde. His work spans highly nonKeplerian orbits, orbital dynamics and mission applications for solar sails, spacecraft control using artiﬁcial potential ﬁeld methods and is reported in over 100 journal papers. Recent work is exploring new approaches to spacecraft orbital dynamics at extremes of spacecraft length-scale to underpin future space-derived products and services. McInnes has been the recipient of awards including the Royal Aeronautical Society Pardoe Space Award (2000), the Ackroyd Stuart Propulsion Prize (2003) and a Leonov medal by the International Association of Space Explorers (2007). ( 6/15/11 “ Hybrid solar sail and solar electric propulsion for novel Earth observation missions$” ScienceDirect,bs)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">__Geostationary spacecraft provide a continuous__ ……..__to interplanetary transfers [17], to displaced periodic orbits in the Earth–Moon system__ [18]. In addition, IKAROS is exploiting hybrid propulsion [7] </span>
=Round 5= 
ANTHRO!!!!!!
=Round 6= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 15px;">government</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> should substantially increase its deployment of solar sails beyond the earths mesosphere</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Round 2-Heg]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heg</span></span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Heg is good</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 12 – </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a columnist for the Washington Post, served in the U.S. State department, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund ( Robert, 2012, “ Why the World Needs America”[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html)bs]]</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">History shows</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> that __world orders__, including…………__—which is what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.__ </span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Social science proves </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wohlforth 09</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">This is why such theories seem ………..</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">competitions </span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">for status </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">tend to be zero sum</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">.9</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Drezner 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, ………. force potentially more attractive, because of the minimization of spillover effects.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Controlling energy key to hard and soft power</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Padilla 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010,[[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">“We become just byperforming just actions, temperateby performingtemperateactions,bravebyperformingbraveactions,”saidAristotleover2,300yearsago. Today,</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">the U</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">nited</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">St</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">ates</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">faces</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">a</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">series</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">………</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">becomecriticallyhandicapped__.__</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Roy et al 11 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS”[[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">For cooling Earth, it does …….</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">. Terrestrial carbon burners, and even “nukes”, waste two-thirds of their fuel’s energy due to basic thermodynamic inefficiency.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Energy from space move us away from fossil fuel </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Flournoy 11 - </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University (Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book) </span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">One of the</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> obvious __opportunities for solar power satellites ……..__ Sunsat business to guarantee a sustainable night-and-day fuel source. </span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Human spaceflight key to leadership – however the failing mission to mars is causing a decline </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wolfgang 11/15</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">, Ben, national reporter for The Washington Times [“Budgeting woes could derail U.S. role in space exploration” [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/nov/15/budgeting-woes-could-derail-us-role-in-space-explo/]]] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The days of U.S. leadership in space …… to fly space missions that were once the domain of NASA.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Solar sails allow us to complete the Mars mission – also allows for a base to be created</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 7 -</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> is cofounder of The Planetary Society. In the 1970s he worked at JPL on deep space missions, including Mariner-VenusMercury, Voyager and Magellan ( Louis June 2007, “ Making light work Theory evolves toward practice—high-speed travel in the frictionless medium of space.”[[http://planetary.org/programs/projects/solar_sailing/pro_pilot_0607.pdf,bs]]) </span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Solar sailing offers</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> a practical means …….. and returning material to Earth for study. </span>__

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction of Earth is inevitable – only Mars Colonization solves </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davies 10</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> and Schulze-Makuch (Dirk Schulze-Makuch, Ph.D., School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Washington State University and Paul Davies, Ph.D., Beyond Center, Arizona State University, “To Boldly Go: A One-Way Human Mission to Mars”, [[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars108.html]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">There are several reasons ……… with current chemical rocket technology.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Human space flight is key to American credibility </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Logsdon 7 - director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University (March 2007, Dr. John Logsdon, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">human ………… U</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">nited </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">tates </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">as a great country</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This makes the US seem benign – solves for the reasons hegemony is bad</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jervis 09 </span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">To say that the system is unipolar is not ………e American vision and believe that its leadership is benign.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Round 2-1AC The band]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC The band</span></span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Lack of bandwidth is constraining arctic gas exploration and production</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">NSR ‘11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Northern Sky Research, Industry Briefing, “The Digital Oilfield: Rising Bandwidth Demand, Consolidation and the HTS Puzzle,” 5-24-2011, [[http://www.nsr.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=444&catid=102&Itemid=175]])</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Recent discoveries in ……..</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> be the door that opens new revenue streams as O&G end-users push further into the frontiers of connectivity.</span>




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">New satellite communications capability is key</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Jarrold ‘8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Martin Jarrold, Chief of International Program Development, Global VSAT Forum, “Dynamics in the “Oil & Gas Patch”,” Sat Magazine, March 2008, [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=724995289]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">As</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">a supplier of essential services to the ……….</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> from the</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">subterranean and</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">subsea</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">depths of the planet</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>







**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2 Internal Links – </span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Natural outgassing – the ocean is already too warm to sustain frozen methane hydrates – wide-scale melting is inevitable and underway**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nissen ‘11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">(John Nissen, Chairman, Arctic Methane Emergency Working Group, geoengineering expert; other contributors & members: Peter Wadhams, Professor of ocean physics at Cambridge University, Stephen Salter, Emeritus Professor of Engineering Design at Edinburgh University, Dr. Brian Orr, former Principal Scientific Officer, Department of the Environment, Peter Carter, Sam Carana, Anthony Cook, Gary Houser, Jon Hughes, and Graham Ennis; “Arctic Methane Alert,” December 2011,[[http://www.vmine.net/scienceinparliament/specials/12.pdf]])</span>




__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Until now, governments have been ……</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> This will also interact with deeper waters and lead to the increasing of summer temperature to positive (above freezing).”</span>






**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Only extraction solves</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Cohen ‘10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> MBA, B.Sc., (Chem. Eng.) PR.Eng</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd. (Dave, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517]])</span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Well, of course, this makes sense. </span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">………..—</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">to cause natural degassing</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Second,**</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Exploration avoids drilling accidents</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Adam ‘5 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">PhD in chemical engineering, science correspondent, worked at the science journal Nature</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">(Dave science correspondent, The Guardian (UK), “US in race to unlock new energy source,” 4-3-2005,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2005/apr/04/usnews.science]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Its new project will see the drilling vessel ….. tied to our future national energy security."</span>






**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">And, new extraction technology is safe – beginning production as soon as possible is the only way to avoid massive methane release</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rennie ‘11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> editor in chief of Scientific American, adjunct instructor in the graduate Science, Health and Environmental Reporting Program recipient of the Sagan Award for Public Understanding of Science, bestowed by the Council of Scientific Society Presidents awarded Navigator Award for distinguished service in support of national science and technology policy (John Rennie, “Energy from Methane Hydrates: Better to Burn Out than Fade Away,” The Gleaming Retort, 6-1-2011,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://blogs.plos.org/retort/2011/06/01/energy-from-methane-hydrates-better-to-burn-out-than-fade-away/]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">__Estimates of how much methane …...__</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Better to burn some of their methane in the short run, and suffer a CO2-driven aggravation of greenhouse problems en route to a more sustainable energy solution, than to continue with the energy status quo and wait for melting hydrates to worsen the climate problem for us</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>







**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Methane release causes extinction – outweighs nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Ryskin ‘3</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> (Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION ….. __implicated in the nuclear winter scenario__ (Turco et al., 1991). </span>





**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Any risk of methane release controls your impact calculus – it’s the most probable and only empirical extinction event, and accesses an invisible threshold</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Dorritie ‘7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,”Killer in our Midst, 2007, [[http://www.killerinourmidst.com/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Deep beneath the surface of the …….__.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Remedial action is still possible, but the likelihood of catastrophe becomes more certain with each passing year</span>__</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ceriotti and McInnes 11 - </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dr. Matteo Ceriotti received his M.Sc. summa cum laude from Politecnico di Milano (Italy) in 2006 with a thesis on planning and scheduling for planetary exploration. In 2010, he received his Ph.D. on ‘‘Global Optimisation of Multiple Gravity Assist Trajectories’’ from the Department of Aerospace Engineering of the University of Glasgow, United Kingdom. Since 2009, Matteo is a research fellow at the Advanced Space Concepts Laboratory, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[@http://www.strath.ac/|http://www.strath.ac]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">. uk/space), leading the research theme ‘‘Orbital Dynamics of Large Gossamer Spacecraft’’. The current research topic is non-Keplerian motion of spacecraft with hybrid solar sail and solar electric propulsion. His main research interests are space mission analysis and trajectory design, orbital dynamics, trajectory optimisation, and spacecraft autonomy. He is AIAA member Colin McInnes is a Director of the Advanced Space Concepts Laboratory at the University of Strathclyde. His work spans highly nonKeplerian orbits, orbital dynamics and mission applications for solar sails, spacecraft control using artiﬁcial potential ﬁeld methods and is reported in over 100 journal papers. Recent work is exploring new approaches to spacecraft orbital dynamics at extremes of spacecraft length-scale to underpin future space-derived products and services. McInnes has been the recipient of awards including the Royal Aeronautical Society Pardoe Space Award (2000), the Ackroyd Stuart Propulsion Prize (2003) and a Leonov medal by the International Association of Space Explorers (2007). ( 6/15/11 “ Hybrid solar sail and solar electric propulsion for novel Earth observation missions$” ScienceDirect,bs)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">__Geostationary spacecraft provide a continuous__ ……..__to interplanetary transfers [17], to displaced periodic orbits in the Earth–Moon system__ [18]. In addition, IKAROS is exploiting hybrid propulsion [7] </span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">2ac </span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heg </span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cling inev</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McDonough, 9</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (David. S. McDonough, Fellow at the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies at Dalhousie University, “Beyond Primacy: Hegemony and ‘Security Addiction’ in U.S. Grand Strategy”, Winter 2009, Orbis, ScienceDirect)bs</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The reason that the ………. strategies of __primacy__– rather than going ‘‘beyond primacy’’–__for much of the Long War.__</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Decline leads to middle eat instability and Israeli hostility </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> - National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University (Zbigniew 2012 “Strategic Vision: America and the crisis for global power” book)bs </span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In addition to specific …….. __would then intensify__. </span>



===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">T </span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solar sailing is exploration </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nasa 8/22 - </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ( 8/22/11 NASA Announces Technology Demonstration Missions http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oct/crosscutting_capability/tech_demo_missions.html,bs)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA has selected …….. and commercial space activities. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C/I – Space exploration includes telepresence </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">LESTER 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> –Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy, providing science and management policy, and is representing the astronomical community on the Lunar Exploration Roadmap effort he serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC), which reviews and provides advisory oversight and coordination of both space and ground-based astronomical research at NASA, NSF and DOE (Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” //Space Policy// Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">What to do? There are few ….P__articularly relevant distinction__.</span>







**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer it </span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Limits – robotics is the future of space policy, key to education – their interpretation eliminates progressive affs like SSP and military affs</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Precision – their <3 ev doesn’t make the distinction between virtual and physical presence</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lit checks – there isn’t advantage ground to the small affs they list</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Competing interpretations creates a race to the bottom – prefer reasonability</span>**




**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Coal destroys oceans</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hansen 9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> - Director of Nasa's Goddard Institute for Space Studies</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">James Hansen, Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences @ Columbia University and Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Iowa), “Coal-fired power stations are death factories. Close them,” The Observer, Sunday 15 February 2009, pg.[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/feb/15/james-hansen-power-plants-coal|__http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/feb/15/james-hansen-power-plants-coal__]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A year ago, I wrote to Gordon Brown asking him ……. - its proportionate contribution to the number that would be committed to extinction if carbon dioxide rose another 100 ppm. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Craig ‘3 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">– Assc Prof Law Indiana. (34 McGeorge Law Rev 155, 2003 ln)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function …….</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 12pt;">, and we will take most of the biosphere with us.</span>









===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ptx </span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No internal</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pc not key</span>**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Edwards 9</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">– Distinguished Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M University, holds the George and Julia Blucher Jordan Chair in Presidential Studies and has served as the Olin Professor of American Government at Oxford (George, “The Strategic President”, Printed by the Princeton University Press, pg. 149-150)MGM</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even __presidents__ who appeared …….., it will almost always be a minority in each chamber.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turn – presidential involvement decreases chances for success</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klein 3-19</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Ezra, a columnist at the Washington Post, as well as a contributor to MSNBC and Bloomberg, editor of Wonkblog, Citing George Edwards, the director of the Center for Presidential Studies, at Texas A. & M. University [“The Unpersuaded: Who listens to a President?” [[http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2012/03/19/120319fa_fact_klein?currentPage=all]]] HURWITZ</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Representative Jim Cooper…….. __of making it harder for him to govern.__</span>





**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Student loan funding thumps</span>**

<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); text-align: -webkit-auto;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Hill 04-25</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> [“House to vote on student loans,” <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/223757-house-to-vote-on-student-loans]]</span>] ttate</span></span>

<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; text-align: -webkit-auto;">The decision to move the __….. out of thin air__.</span>





<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); text-align: -webkit-auto;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cybersecurity thumps</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); text-align: -webkit-auto;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Worcester Telegram 04-22</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> ["Cyber threat on agenda", <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.telegram.com/article/20120422/NEWS/104229737/0/SEARCH]]</span>] ttate</span></span>

<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); text-align: -webkit-auto;">__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The House</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">this week__will consider ……____an approach oncybersecurity.__ </span></span>




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Impact d </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Amuzegar 6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Jahangir, finance minister and economic ambassador in Iran's pre-1979 government, Middle East Policy, “Nuclear Iran: perils and prospects”, 6/22, lexis)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Questioning the validity of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">………. meaningless. (50) Such people know neither Shiite martyrdom nor the regime leaders' instinct for self-preservation, nor even the mullahs' bazaari habit of always looking for the best deal.</span>





===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Commisions </span>=== 



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No solvency advocate </span>





**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">Angel and Worden 6</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">(Roger-- a Regents Professor at the University of Arizona and is on the faculty of the UA astronomy department and the Optical Sciences College, and Research Professor of Astronomy at the University of Arizona and Director of NASA Ames Research Center, “Making moon sun-shades from moondust”, Summer 2006, Ad Astra, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html,bs]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">The total mass to be ……… over several decades.</span>









**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JEFFREY</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">KLUGER, ’12</span>** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">(1/4,senior writer at TIME Magazine, and author of several books on science topics,<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://ideas.time.com/2012/01/04/chinas-going-to-the-moon-and-thats-good-for-everyone/]]</span>)</span>



**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">NASA has become so ……</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Either spend the cash and finish the job or don’t get started in the first place.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First Not Severance – </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Resolved” is “to express; to decide by a formal vote” that’s a quote from </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Webster’s 98 – </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Revised Unabridged Dictionary, (dictionary.com)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Resolved**:**</span>__

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5. __To express,__ as an opinion or determination, by resolution and vote; __to__ declare or __decide by a formal vote__; -- followed by a clause; as, the house resolved (or, it was resolved by the house) that no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And Should “used in a regular sense is not mandatory but permissive” that’s a quote from </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases 02</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (“Words and Phrases: Permanent Edition” Vol. 39 Set to Signed. Pub. By Thomson West. P. 370)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cal.App. 5 Dist. 1976. Term “__should__,” as used in statutory provision that motion to suppress search warrant should first be heard by magistrate who issued warrant, is __used in regular,__ persuasive __sense,__ as recommendation, and __is__ thus __not mandatory but permissive__. West’s Ann.Pen Code, § 1538.5(b).---Cuevas v. Superior Court, 130 Cal. Rptr. 238, 58 Cal.App.3d 406 ----Searches 191.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Links to politics or means the plan doesn't happen </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klein 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – Ezra Klein, awesome political blogger, “Sins of Commission,” February 19, 2010, online: [[@http://voices.washingtonpost.com/ezra-klein/2010/02/sins_of_commission.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> There's nothing ……. and there's no reason to believe they're going to change their minds. </span>





<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. Commissions fail miserably and massively piss off congress – empirics prove </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rampell - 8/02, Catherine Rampell, Economic columnist for NYT, 8/02/11, “Why Would a Fiscal Commission Work This Time?” http://economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/08/02/why-would-a-fiscal-commission-work-this-time/</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Here on Capitol Hill, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 12pt;">……..</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the entitlement program was about to go bankrupt.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That avoids inevitable extinction – The mere construction of dyson dots transforms our civilization into a new plane of existence</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roy et al 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Given the Copernican Principle, …… __change problem here on Earth may be just the thing to bootstrap the human race to a new plane of existence.__ </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">controlling the sun is key to civilization evolution</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kaku 2004</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Michio, Prof. Theoretical Physics @ City College New York, Discover, “How to Survive the End of the Universe”, 12-3, http://discovermagazine.com/2004/dec/survive-end-of-universe)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To journey</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> safely __from this ….. develop and test an escape plan__.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan CP</span>=== 







**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Guardian 04-27</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ["US economic growth slows to 2.2% rate, official figures show", [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/apr/27/us-economic-growth-slows-rate?newsfeed=true]]] ttate</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The pace of recovery slowed</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> in the ….. but that __it was clear the US still faced significant challenges__.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves </span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boushey 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Heather Boushey is Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress. Sarah Ayres is a Research Associate working with the Economic Policy team at the Center. Michael Ettlinger is Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center, ("Job Creation Requires Spending," 9-7, www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/job_creation_spending.html</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There is broad consensus among …… the order of the day.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nuclear war</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Senior Fellow @ the Council on Foreign Relations, 2/4/</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">’9</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Walter, [[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]])</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The damage to China's position is more ……..? </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 12pt;">TheU</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">nited </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">tates </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 12pt;">may not, yet, decline, but,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">K</span></span>




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Framework – neg must defend status quo or competitive policy option – neg has incentive to exploit the infinite amount of frameworks makes it impossible to be aff – politics are good independent of our ontology – key to avoid favoritism in politics which marginalizes other populations</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Szacki 1996</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – Professor Emeritus of Sociology, Warsaw (Jerzy, Liberalism After Communism, p 197)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Liberalism does not say which of these different moralities is better than others. It is neutral on this question and regards its neutrality as a virtue. Liberalism as a political doctrine assumes that - as Joseph Raz wrote -'there are many worthwhile and valuable relationships, commitments and plans of life which are mutually incompatible'.56 It recognizes that - as John Rawls put it - 'a modern democratic __society is ……. one conception__ to another.'5</span>





**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Rejecting technology dooms millions to their deaths</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Heaberlin 2004</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> – nuclear engineer, led the Nuclear Safety and Technology Applications Product Line at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (Scott, A Case for Nuclear-Generated Electricity, p. 31-40)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Well, then let's not do that, huh? Well, no, not …… to that road. It doesn't go anywhere else.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Technology can’t get any worse – it already can destroy the world – only a risk more can help</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WALKER 2009 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Mark, assistant professor at New Mexico State University and holds the Richard L. Hedden Chair of Advanced Philosophical Studies, “Ship of Fools: Why Transhumanism is the Best Bet to Prevent the Extinction of Civilization ,” The Global Spiral, Feb 5, http://www.metanexus.net/magazine/tabid/68/id/10682/Default.aspx)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This line of thinking is further reinforced when we ……… __for good__.</span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ontology doesn’t come first and ethics o/w </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hellmann, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prof of Poli Sci**, 9** [Gunther Hellmann is a Senior Non-Resident Fellow at AICGS and a professor of political science at Goethe University, “Beliefs as Rules for Action: Pragmatism as a Theory of Thought and Action” __International Studies Review__, Volume 11, Issue 3, Pages 638-662]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While this is not the place for an in-depth ……. __"a **useless structure of bad abstractions about thought**__" (Menand 1997:xi).</span>








=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]