==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jan-Feb</span>== 


==Affirmative== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LEGACY AC</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality.**</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity. **Cummiskey**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ‘90</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We must not … some to save many.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The fundamental logical properties of moral words are that they are universalizable and prescriptive. **R. M. Hare[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]:**</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">My hope then … ‘ought’, and (//a fortiori//) ‘must’.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This means that agents must decide whether to endorse maxims regardless of their own unique position. To determine whether we would will a maxim for all similarly situated agents, we must give equal weight to other’s preferences. **Hare[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]** **2:**</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">I mention these … to maximize satisfactions.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the standard is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">net benefits.</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B IS RISK ANALYSIS</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We should adjust risk analysis based on common sense - disregard enormous impacts because prior experience disqualifies the probability of catastrophe. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Karnofsky</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Holden Karnofsky. “Why We Can't Take Expected Value Estimates Literally (Even When They're Unbiased)”. 18 August 2011. Co-Founder of GiveWell, a non-profit charity evaluator (decides whom to give money) Harvard ’03. “An EEV approach…of life experience.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">An EEV [explicit] [expected-value] approach … of life experience.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rehabilitation is distinct from traditional criminal sanctions. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lipsey</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cullen[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ’07:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rehabilitation treatment is … of antisocial behavior (Walters 1990)].</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I contend that criminal justice policies associated with rehabilitation reduce crime.</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">First is Social Disempowerment</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The paradigm of punishment ignores the state’s obligation to address the causes of crime and instead perpetutates the problems it seeks to solve. This punitive criminal justice project institutionalizes control and dependency. Imprisonment becomes a way of marginalizing outsiders and creating an underclass of recalcitrant individuals and their communities. **Wacquant**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Loic Wacquant—2008. [Professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Institute for Legal Research, Boalt Law School, University of California at Berkeley]. The Place of the Prison in the New Government of Poverty in: After the war on crime: race, democracy, and a new reconstruction by [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Mary+Louise+Frampton%22|Mary Louise Frampton]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Ian+Haney-L%C3%B3pez%22|Ian Haney-López]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Jonathan+Simon%22|Jonathan Simon]]. NYU Press. JS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">More than the … civalized wage work.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must break out of the mindset of incarceration. This myopic perspective ignores the social dimensions of crime and the widespread impact of criminal justice policy. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wacquant 2</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Loic Wacquant—2008. [Professor of Sociology and Research Associate at the Institute for Legal Research, Boalt Law School, University of California at Berkeley]. The Place of the Prison in the New Government of Poverty in: After the war on crime: race, democracy, and a new reconstruction by [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Mary+Louise+Frampton%22|Mary Louise Frampton]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Ian+Haney-L%C3%B3pez%22|Ian Haney-López]], [[http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=+inauthor:%22Jonathan+Simon%22|Jonathan Simon]]. NYU Press. JS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grasping the changing … of convict labor.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The impact is cyclical poverty, crime, oppression, and exclusion. **Ferrell**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Mark W. Lipsey and Francis T. Cullen—5 July 2007. [Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University and Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati]. The Effectiveness of Correctional Rehabilitation: A Review of Systematic Reviews. Annual Review of Law and Social Science. Vol, 3, pp. 297–320. JS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As the interactionist/labeling … claims, falsely, to solve.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second is Recidivism</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Rehabilitation in the form of CBT and MST are extremely effective at reducing recidivism rates. Multiple meta-analyses as well as reviews of meta-analyses have soundly concluded that it works. **Cullen** and **Gendreau**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #141413; font-size: 6pt;">Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice. JS.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Even if interventions … the interventions “doubles” (p. 98).</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Prefer my meta-analytic evidence to isolated studies or individual examples of failure. **Cullen** and **Gendreau2**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #141413; font-size: 6pt;">Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau—2000. [Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John]. Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects. POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM, Vol. 3. Criminal Justice. JS.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">There are, however... interventions they initiate.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Taken as a whole, the evidence indicates that rehabilitative therapy lowers recidivism rates by approximately twenty percent. According to the**Bureau of Justice Statistics**, a twenty percent decrease in recidivism nationally translates to nearly 100,000 fewer repeat offenders being sent to prison every single year.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Since the average repeat offender is charged with more than four crimes at a time, that means nearly 4 million fewer crimes a decade. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The direct harm of recidivism has three impacts. **Wilson**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #231f20; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The effects of recidivism … cannot be understood.</span>

==Negative== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">OUR OWN IMAGE NC</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality.**</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">To evaluate ethical judgements we must //first// untangle our ontological commitments about who is and is not included in the “us” and the “them.” This requires analyzing how policies frame our capacity to apprehend lives. **Butler 1**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We ask such … who will not.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **preventing exclusion from our frames of reference** and preventing control of life by power because</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">First,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Debate and academica do not take seriously the voices of victims or the complexity of social struggles. **Prosise, et al 1** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">While this emphasis … of logical types.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed allowing us to commit the worst possible violence to them. **Butler 2**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” //Studies in Gender & Sexuality// 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Lives are supported … qualifies for recognition.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span>






<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Rehabilitation puts peoples lives directly in the government’s hands. It attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. It directly destroys the individual, forcing them to be “cured” in order to best serve society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">If this statement by the government.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Chuck Hagel NC</span>=== 



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Human subjectivity cannot be conceptualized outside of our basic connections to others and the social conditions that enable autonomy. Human identity is dependent on recognition by the other. **Honneth**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Axel Honneth [University of Frankfurt], “Integrity and Disrespect: Principles of a Conception of Morality Based on the Theory of Recognition,” //Political Theory//, Vol. 20, No. 2 (May, 1992), pp. 187-201. Sage Publications, inc. http://www.jstor.org/stable/192001</span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">According to this… </span><span style="background-color: white;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">person to collapse.</span>__**</span>











Humans live in societies and thus need acknowledgement about our worth within our society. **Farnham 1**



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>



**__We are engaged…__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">acknowledged by others.</span>











<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Our ability to pursue our own ends creates a unique identity and situates the individual within social context. **Farnham 2**</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Failures to acknowledge… as an equal</span>**__.__**



**hus,** the standard is **maintaining social recognition.**



When an individual commits a crime against another, he or she creates an asymmetrical relationship between him or herself and the victim, thereby devaluing the victim’s place in society. **Farnham 3**



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>



**__Wrongful action__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">has realization and acknowledgement.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">A proportional response from an impartial moral authority is necessary to restore the victim’s position as a valued contributing member of society. **Farnham 4**</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Where no public… </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">has been established.</span>__**







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation creates a barriers for the public to criticize injustices that are happening within the criminal justice system that typically exist in a retributive system because of the shroud of rehabilitation **Lewis ’87**</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">-</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment” AS.</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The distinction will… What is your trouble? “</span>







This allows the government to take away control of the offender’s standing in society from the offender by subjecting their lives and modes of thought to unassailable outside forces,







Retributivism takes the offender’s search for his or her place in society into account by acknowledging the role of his or her actions in that search. **Farnham 5**



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Now</span> **__suppose__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">our … </span>**__and objectionable way.__**



















===**__Libertarian NC__**=== 



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Humans must be free from the interference of others in the determination of their life choices. **Boaz**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">DavidBoaz [Executive vice president, the Cato institute] //Libertarianism: A Primer.// Simon & Schuster, 1997, New York</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Pg 61-62</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Any theory of … rights are self-evident.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">the wrongness of moral atrocities can only be explained through the concept of self-ownership. **Feser**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">EdwardFeser[Visiting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, LMU] //Self Ownership, Abortion, and The Rights of Children: Toward a More Conservative Libertarianism//, Journal of Libertarian Studies, Vol 18, No 3, Summer 2004, 91-114</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The thesis of… </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">for any reason</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">.</span>







**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">the standard is **consistency with self-ownership.** Government action cannot force an individual to sacrifice his or her own projects and goals for the good of others in society.</span>







<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">If this statement… by the government.</span>









===<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Truth NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rationality can never justify all of our beliefs. Requiring us to do so is an impossible demand that short-circuits ethical decision-making. **Keller** explains why such strong rationalism fails for //two// reasons.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. 2008. BG.</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything… have to bow to.</span>







**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">explains how what we think of as “truth” is actually determined by power structures that erect a regime of “truth” to legitimate the existence of such structures. It is the structures, which we must overturn in order to make ethical decisions.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Michel Foucault. Power And Knowledge. 1980. BG.</span>







<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">It seems to… importance of Nietzsche.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault takes out all other warrants for what states ought to do because such warrants //ultimately// rely on regimes of truth to validate their assumptions.</span>







<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">If this statement i… by the government.</span>







<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Retribution acknowledges their choices while expressing moral condemnation. **Robson**</span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robson, Regina A. [Assistant Professor of Business, St. Joseph’s University] //Crime and Punishment: Rehabilitating Retribution as a Justification for Organizational Criminal Liability//. 47 Am. Bus. L.J. 109, Spring 2010. MO.</span></span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">A second predicate… to specific conduct.</span>[[home#co_footnote_F118352049668_2|118]]</span>








<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rationality can never justify all of our beliefs. Requiring us to do so is an impossible demand that short-circuits ethical decision-making. **Keller** explains why such strong rationalism fails for //two// reasons.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. 2008. BG.</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything… have to bow to.</span>







**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">explains how what we think of as “truth” is actually determined by power structures that erect a regime of “truth” to legitimate the existence of such structures. It is the structures, which we must overturn in order to make ethical decisions.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Michel Foucault. Power And Knowledge. 1980. BG.</span>







<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">It seems to… importance of Nietzsche.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault takes out all other warrants for what states ought to do because such warrants //ultimately// rely on regimes of truth to validate their assumptions.</span>







**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Moreover</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, we can //never// understand the nature of morality unless we //first// know who we have obligations //to//. This means that interrogating power structures //must// come first because it is the power structures that frame whose lives count. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Butler</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> explains:</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span></span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__We ask__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">such… </span>**__those who will not__**.</span>








**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, it is impossible to determine //who// we have obligations to without interrogating the norms created by power structures. There is no other way; epistemology demands that we look first at power. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Butler 2[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> continues:</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 3-4</span>







<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__The__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">epistemological</span> **__capacity… facilitate that recognition__**.</span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Debate and academica do not take seriously the voices of victims or the complexity of social struggles. **Prosise, et al 1**:</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">While this emphasis… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">of logical types.</span>__**







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This means that A) philosophical frameworks fail if they fail to take into account these relationsal historical and contextual aspects **and** B) the most important thing for debate to accomplish is to teach debaters 1 how best to open up that space for victims to speak since they are excluded from academia and 2 to understand the ways in which power constructs our moral theories</span>







**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Second,</span>**



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The study of social power in argumentation and justification is key to the benefits gained from debate. **Prosise 2**:</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>







**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Argument is </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">most</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> public decision making.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">So we must focus on how our arguments are justifying power structure and how either side can mitigate such existing structures, because argument itself is a form of social power.</span>



I contend that rehabilitation hides the tyrannical system of power that controls truth











**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">First</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, rehabilitation creates a barriers for the public to criticize injustices that are happening within the criminal justice system that typically exist in a retributive system because of the shroud of rehabilitation **Lewis ’87**</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">-</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment” AS.</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The distinction will… is your trouble? “</span>







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Second, rehabilitation disguises any possible malicious action as a cure for criminals without drawing any criticism meaning there is no limit to government action **Lewis ’87**</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">-</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment” AS.</span>











<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The practical problem… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">grounds of justice.</span>__**







<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Therefore, this leaves the criminal justice system at the total whim of a tyrannical form of power as unique features in a rehabilitative criminal justice system allow it to justify anything to the public.</span>









----

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]] Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 3-4</span>