reinking2@gmail.com
dukefrog@gmail.com

==Waterways 1ac== 

The current transportation budget allocates $2 billion in new Army Corps navigation projects.
Rogers 4/29 (4/29 Hal, Head of Us appropriations committee, ”Appropriations Committee Release Fiscal Year 2013 Energy and Water Appropriations”)
The House Appropriations Committee ...authority over budget decisions.


That’s not enough—New Investment is key--More than 80% of locks will be obsolete in 8 years.
Scott 5/12 [May, Doug, editor of American Society of Civil Engineers News, “ASCE Tells Congress More Must Be Invested in Inland Waterways”, May,
Rossberg told the ....the American economy.”


Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in inland waterway infrastructure modernization projects in the United States.

Contention Two: Goods

Scenario One: Agriculture

Inland Waterways are key to sustaining US agricultural exports—now is key to keep up with global competitivness.
Steenhoek 4/18 Mike Steenhoek, Executive Director of the Soy Transportation Coalition House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing; "How Reliability of the Inland Waterway System Impacts Economic .....* Illinois River: 24 million tons


Collapse of US agricultural competiveness leads to mass starvation and global instability—results in extinction.
Lugar 4 – U.S. Senator – Indiana, (Richard, “Plant Power” Our Planet v. 14 n. 3,
In a world ... health of our planet.



Scenario One: Soy
Soybean industry dependent on inland waterways—lock closures spike prices
USB 12 Crumbling Inland Waterway System Puts Farmers, Consumers at Risk, Jan 24, 2012 Soybean checkoff study finds that United States could lose global competitiveness,
Just on the ..... the soybean checkoff.
Price spikes increase Brazilian soybean production.
Jordahl 7/5 (Rick, Associate Editor of AG Professional, July 25 ‘Global importers slash U.S. corn, soybean purchases’ DM)
With corn and ... can, Kerns says.


Increase in soybean production reverses trends to preserve the amazon.
Brown 12/30/9 (Lester is the president of the Earth Policy Institute, DECEMBER 30, ‘Growing Demand for Soybeans Threatens Amazon Rainforest’, DM)
The Amazon is ..... just expanding supply.


Destruction of the Amazon Causes Extinction

Takacs 96, Instructor in Department of Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State-Monterey Bay [David, 1996 Philosophies of Paradise
Most predictions of ....with no less drama:


Rainforests key to global biodiversity

UPI 11 (United Press International, News Source, “Cocaine tied to Colombian deforestation” 1/27/11, Online[FH])
Such deforestation of ..., the researchers say.
Biodiversity Loss Causes Extinction.
Diner ’94 [David N., Major and Judge Advocate in the General’s Corps, Winter, Military Law Review, “The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who’s Endangering Whom?” 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, Lexis]
By causing widespread ... to the abyss.
No Defense
A. Extinction Rate Outweighs Resiliency

Rosenweig 1. (Michael L. Rosenzweig, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, 2001, PNAS, Volume 98, No. 10, May 8, p. 5404 [EBSCO])
Accidents that eradicate .... with the losses.
B. Forest Ecosystems Can Only Maintain Resiliency if Their Species Are Biodiverse
Wilson 2. (Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor-Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)
Ecosystems are kept ....vegetation still more


Contention Three: Small Boats

Current inland waterways are susceptible to attack—status quo proposals lack cohesive plan of action—small boats can get through
Breanne 7 Wagner, November 2007, staff writer, National Defense, “License to Boat?,” Vol. 92 Issue 648, p. 22, Ebsco Host
*cites Dana Goward, director of Coast Guard maritime domain awareness*
Small boats have ...borne improvised explosive


Scenario One: River Terror
The next terror attack will be done using a small boat – squo doesn’t solve
CBS 9 (News Service, “U.S. Wary Of Small Boat Terrorism” 2/11, Online [FH])
As boating season .... potential terrorist targets.


One attack would trigger many more
Hill 9 (Brian Patrick Hill, Naval School Postgraduate, “MARITIME TERRORISM AND THE SMALL BOAT THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES: A PROPOSED RESPONSE” 3/2009, Online [FH])
Although it would... first successful attack.
Attack by 2013 – we would retaliate by launching nuclear strikes at Pakistan and Iran
Watson 8 Steve Watson, 12-5-2008, “Propaganda Recycled: US Report Blames Pakistan for Future WMD Attack,”
In a blatant .... war on terror.


Pakistan strikes causes extinction
McBride 7 Daniel R. McBride, 8-1-2007, Montreal-Based Writer, “From the Torching of the Louvain to Bomber Harris”, Moderate Observer,
One can imagine ....India, within hours.
Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for extinction.
Chossudovsky 6 (Michel Chossudovsky, The Next Phase of the Middle East War, Global Research
The Bush Administration .... of the Russian Federation.
Scenario 2: Port Attack
Small Boat Terrorism Would Involve WMD Use on ports
Hill 9 (Brian Patrick Hill, Naval School Postgraduate, “MARITIME TERRORISM AND THE SMALL BOAT THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES: A PROPOSED RESPONSE” 3/2009, Online [FH])
Secretary Chertoff previously ..... the surrounding territory.” 164
Port Terrorism Collapses Global Economy – Our Internal Link Outweighs – 3 Week Timeframe
Flynn 3 Stephen, Natl Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20
A year later ....up international trade.
Even Unsuccessful Port Attacks Collapse the Economy
Medalia, 5 (Jonathan Medalia, Specialist in National Defense Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, “Terrorist Nuclear Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” CRS Report for Congress, 1/24, Online [FH])
The antiterrorism/force ..... global financial marketplace.




And, economic decline causes war – statistics prove
Royal 10 [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214]
Less intuitive is..... deserves more attention.



Scenario 3: LNG Tankers
Small boat terror will target LNG tankers
Carafano 7 (James Jay Carafano, Ph.D., Assistant Director of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Senior Research Fellow for National Security and Homeland Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for ..... a catastrophic outcome.
Even One LNG Tank Explosion Outweighs Nuclear War
Lovins 1 (Amory B., pub. date: 2001, Rocky Mountain Institute Cofounder, a consultant and experimental physicist educated @ Harvard and Oxford, has received an Oxford MA, ten honorary doctorates, an honorary member of the American Institute of Architects, ....fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.


Scenario 4: Nuclear Taboo

Only Terrorists Will Use Nuclear Weapons – Nation-States Have a Nuclear Taboo
Perkovich 9 (George Perkovich, vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear-Free World” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, Online [FH])
The underlying difficulty, ...has become so strong,
Terrorist Nuclear Use Shatters the Taboo Through Retaliation
Gusterson 7 (Hugh Gusterson, professor of anthropology and sociology at George Mason University, expertise in nuclear culture, “Nuclear terrorism: Correcting the future” 6/4/07, Online [FH])
We already know ....with nuclear weapons?


Retaliation Kills Hundreds of Millions Regardless of the Success of the Initial Attack
Easterbrook 1 (Greg, The new republic, November 1accessed 7/10/03)
GREENFIELD: Now, finally, .... dozen Muslim countries.
The Taboo Prevents All Conflict Escalation - One Violation Spills Over – Turns Your Nuclear War Scenarios

Gizewski 96[Peter, *Senior Associate, Peace and Conflict Studies Programme, University of Toronto, International Journal, Summer, p. 400]
Absolute and all-encompassing, ... destruction to come.
Independently, Destruction of the Taboo Causes Nuclear Extinction
Quester 4 (George Quester, Prof of Govt and Politics @ U of Maryland. Doctorate in PoliSci from Harvard, “If the nuclear taboo gets broken” Naval War College Review, Spring 2005, Vol 58, No 2, Online [FH])
The very worst ... be used again

SOLVENCY
The federal government is key
Howland 4 Dr. William G. is the Basin Program Manager of Lake Champlain, Grand Isle, VT, “U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ROLE IN THE NATION'S WATER RESOURCE NEEDS IN THE 21ST CENTURY, Capital Hill Testimony, March 31, lexis
Pollution prevention requires ...
commitment of the U.S. Army Corps.



No disads- big new spending on transportation infrastructure now
Glaeser 12(Edward, Professor of Economics @ Harvard, " Spending Won’t Fix What Ails U.S. Infrastructure: Edward Glaeser," Feb 13, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/spending-won-t-fix-what-ails-u-s-transport-commentary-by-edward-glaeser.html)
President Barack Obama’s announcement...

or high-speed railways to nowhere.


__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Camus Aff</span>__

__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">PART ONE IS THE ROAD</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Pre-Socratic philosophers amused themselves with the essence of existence. Thales believed that water made up everything. Anaximander believed that from nothing and the undefined there sprung qualities and opposites; that out of chaos springs order. Heraclitus thought the world was change and flux—the universe danced with the fire of the logos. This matter, this unifying principle to explain everything has no explanation for otherness, for the World that moves day after day, haunting philosophers with the unknown. Western philosophy has been the procession of a search for a single great answer, a cosmological principle to discern actual reality. Albert Camus explains this desire for knowledge writing that</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Camus 1957 (Albert, French writer & nobel prize winner in literature, //The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays,// pg. 19-22[DR])</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Of</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> whom and of what indeed ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">to know beforehand if thought can live in those deserts.</span>


__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">PART TWO IS THE TRAVELER</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">“I woke up as the sun was reddening; and that was the one distinct time in my life, the strangest moment of all, when I didn't know who I was — I was far away from home, haunted and tired with travel, in a cheap hotel room I'd never seen, hearing the hiss of steam outside, and the creak of the old wood of the hotel, and footsteps upstairs, and all the sad sounds, and I looked at the cracked high ceiling and really didn't know who I was for about fifteen strange seconds. I wasn't scared; I was just somebody else, some stranger, and my whole life was a haunted life, the life of a ghost. I was halfway across America, at the dividing line between the East of my youth and the West of my future</span><span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">, and maybe that's why it happened right there and then, that strange red afternoon.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The open road presents us with nothingness, the vast expanse of existence. This confrontation with the utter meaninglessness of existence will happen at some point. Presented with this thought nothing else matters. When thinking about our lot, of being bound to the endless roads and passageways it is important to remember that:</span>
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">He who fights with monsters should be careful lest he thereby become a monster. And if thou gaze long into an abyss, the abyss will also gaze into thee</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Camus elaborates that</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Camus 1957 (Albert, French writer & nobel prize winner in literature, //The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays//, pg. 12-16 [DR])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">All great deeds and all great thoughts ...rapid inventory on the plane of the intelligence. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">In </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">On The Road,</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> Kerouacs protagonist tells us an interesting bit of wisdom about the road”</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">What is that feeling when you're driving away from people and they recede on the plain till you see their specks dispersing? — it's the too-huge world vaulting us, and it's good-by. But we lean forward to the next crazy venture beneath the skies.</span>//


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Sitting in the drivers seat of a 72’ Impala gunning it across California—its hard not to know that we are all travelers, each at our own intersection of different life highways. This thought—pondering the open road, the vast expanse of life and our journeys reveals an interesting question. Why life? Why this place? Why even exist? Why not just fade into the void and snuff it all out with a quick jog down the railroad tracks.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Camus elucidates that</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Camus 1957 (Albert, French writer & nobel prize winner in literature, //The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays,// pg. 2-5 [AL]) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">re is but one truly serious philosophical problem,...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> __daily agitation, and the uselessness of suffering__. </span> 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Drowning, gas leaks, immolation, broken hearts, bludgeoning, cancer, the flu… In trash cans, rivers, lakes, urns, and below ground the world is littered with the dead—but we keep this thought away—banished within a hope—we live as though we will never die… and this is our greatest lie—at any second we may leave this place, where we go isn’t important, just that we leave, and we leave behind everything that we ever thought was important. Camus explains that</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Camus 1957 (Albert, French writer & nobel prize winner in literature, //The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays,// pg. 58-60 [AL]) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The absurd enlightens me</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> on this point...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> __evidence of a life without consolation__.</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">PART THREE IS THE ABSURD HERO</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">From 1972 to 1973 seven hitchhikers were kidnapped and brutally mamed and murdered near Santa Rosa, California. The American highway holds stories of terror and death, from Matthew Shepard to the Sunshine Skyway bridge collapse, traversing the open road is the constant reminder of the danger of the road, of the finitude, ambiguity and chaos of life. Far from being a call to hedonism and safety, this is a challenge, an opportunity. A devilish Fiend explains in the prologue to Thus spoke Zarathustra:</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Nietzsche 1885 (Friedrich, Sponge Brain and supposed Nazi, //Thus Spoke Zarathustra :A book for All and None// [DR])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">When Zarathustra had spoken these words, ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;"> they laugh they hate me too. There is ice in their laughter."</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">And so, when confronted with this year’s resolution John and I choose to challenge this tragic paradigm. John and I affirm:</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States because the road is vast. It is through exploring and travel of the road that we understand our existential plight—that we are insignificant beings in the world. This turn to the road, to open ourselves to the vastness of the world. is an encounter the absurdity and capriciousness of everyday life. When one stares into the abyss the abyss stares back into them and one realizes the absurdity of existence. It is in this moment of lucid consciousness that we realize all we have is our lives, our revolt, and our passion</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">“There is no sun without shadow, and it is essential to know the night. The absurd man says yes and his efforts will henceforth be unceasing. This universe henceforth without a master seems to him neither sterile nor futile. Each atom of that stone, each mineral flake of that night filled mountain, in itself forms a world. The struggle itself toward the heights is enough to fill a man's heart.”<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">As Sal tells us :</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 13pt;">And for just a moment I had reached the point of ecstasy that I always wanted to reach, which was the complete step across chronological time into timeless shadows, and wonderment in the bleakness of the mortal realm, and the sensation of death kicking at my heels to move on, with a phantom dogging its own heels, and myself hurrying to a plank where all the angels dove off and flew into the holy void of uncreated emptiness, the potent and inconceivable radiancies shining in bright Mind Essence, innumerable lotus-lands falling open in the magic mothswarm of heaven. I could hear an indescribable seething roar which wasn't in my ear but everywhere and had nothing to do with sounds. I realized that I had died and been reborn numberless times but just didn't remember because the transitions from life to death and back are so ghostly easy, a magical action for naught, like falling asleep and waking up again a million times, the utter casualness and deep ignorance of it</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">It’s an absurd question why? Why the road? Why the open highway, why go out there, why adventure outside at all? Why did someone ever choose to eat a raw oyster? I’ll tell you why: bravery. To do things not because they are easy—but to dare to accomplish something because it is difficult—is to turn our tragedy into triumph. Bob Lane describes our existential plight</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Lane 96 (Bob. Classics, Philosophy, and Religious Studies/ Institute of Practical Philosophy Malaspina University-College “The absurd Hero,” [DR])</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Sisyphus is the absurd hero....</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;"> (p. 87) One could do worse than to consider the myths-retold in the works of Camus. </span>

----
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]Friedrich Nietzsche: //Beyond Good and Evil,// Chapter 6, Aphorism 146, trans. by Helen Zimmern</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]] Camus, Albert. //The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays//, pg. 2, 1957</span>