[[toc]]
===New Trier Harry Owen and Will Lowe=== 
AFF cites: m.harry.owen@gmail.com
NEG cites: will.lowe2@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
===Addendum=== 
**FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO CHOSE TO CHECK THE WIKI AFTER I TOLD YOU THE ADVANTAGES AND IMPACTS:**

Please, don't read the following arguments - my will to live is substantially damaged each time they're in the 1NC
* T - In
* That GVC card that says extraction causes extinction/is motivated by greed &c &c
* Anything at all if you're from Whitney Young

Thanks in advance!

<3 Harry
==Icebreakers== 
===Plan Text=== 
====The United States federal government should substantially increase its icebreaking operations for the creation of United States’ waterways.==== 
===Contention One- Arctic Shield=== 


Arctic war coming now- and not just with Russia- multiple nations are building up their military while scrambling for resources, access, and territory
**Rosenthal 9/18**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Elisabeth- NYT staff writer/contributor, “Race Is On as Ice Melt Reveals Arctic Treasures”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/19/science/earth/arctic-resources-exposed-by-warming-set-off-competition.html?pagewanted=all)</span>
NUUK, Greenland — With Arctic ice melting at record pace, the world’s superpowers
AND
of the cash-poor corners of the Arctic like Greenland and Iceland.

The Coast Guard is increasing Arctic presence through “Arctic Shield” – more icebreakers are key –this also non-uniques DAs
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Slattery 10/26 (Brian Slattery- Research Assistant, Defense Studies Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, 10/26/2012, “Arctic Shield: Coast Guard Looking North”, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/10/26/arctic-shield-coast-guard-looking-north/”)</span>
The Arctic has become a hotbed of interest in recent years. The Coast Guard
AND
Guard and provide adequate funding for the sea service to perform its missions.

Lack of effective presence makes Russian resource and territorial grabs inevitable- it also undermines cooperation
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dowd 11</span> – MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute
Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979
One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by
AND
Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.

That escalates to nuclear war

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Staples 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The fact is, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the Arctic is becoming an \ .</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">A hardline approach is necessary to prevent conflict escalation, miscalculation, and great power war- newest and most complex models prove</span>
Murray 12 (Professor of Political Science @ Alberta

Robert, “Arctic politics
AND
the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.
Reject their defense- Russian military actions prove they won’t cooperate absent US presence
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Huebert 10</span> – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD, Professor of Political Science @ U of Calgary</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rob, “The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment,”http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf</span>
It should be clear that the Russians have been according a growing importance to the
AND
action point to an increasingly ¶ assertive Russia? This is not known.


===Contention Two- Naval Power=== 
Two Internal links:
First is Force Readiness- waterways are critical to US naval power- allow for force deployment- that aff and Arctic waterways are key
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Weitz 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Richard Weitz- Richard Weitz is a Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at Hudson Institute. His current research includes regional security developments relating to Europe, Eurasia, and East Asia as well as U.S. foreign, defense, homeland security, and WMD nonproliferation policies. Dr. Weitz also is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Project on National Security Reform (PNSR), where he overseas case study research, and a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), where he contributes to various defense projects- Before joining Hudson, Dr. Weitz worked for the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the Defense Science Board, DFI International, Inc., the Center for Strategic Studies, the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, and the U.S. Department of Defense. Dr. Weitz is a graduate of Harvard College (B.A. with Highest Honors in Government), the London School of Economics (M.Sc. in International Relations), Oxford University (M.Phil. in Politics), and Harvard University (Ph.D. in Political Science). He is proficient in Russian, French, and German, August 16 2011, “Maritime Power and Grand Strategy”, http://www.sldinfo.com/maritime-power-and-grand-strategy/)</span>
An effective grand strategy requires appropriate and adequate tools and resources to carry it out
AND
maritime security leverages the investment in the U.S. Navy manifold.

Second is shipbuilding- the plan revitalizes the industry
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O'Rourke 10 </span>**(Ronald- Naval specialist and congressional consultant, 9/29, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Background, Issues, and Options for Congress”, http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc29706/m1/1/high_res_d/RL34391_2010Sep29.pdf)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The status of the U.S. shipbuilding industrial base</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">particularly the part that builds military ships </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">for the U.S. government, has been a concern in Congress and elsewhere since the early 1990s, </span>
following the end of the cold war, when the rate of Navy shipbuilding declined
AND
in their construction for a ¶ period of a few or several years.
And, a strong maritime and shipbuilding industry is a vital pre requisite to credible naval capabilities
**Alberto, et al., 5** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)</span>
In conclusion, our study found that the tremendous advantage the US enjoys in naval
AND
skyrocket out of proportion to the value to the nation of the vessel.


Naval power deters great power war and prevents multiple extinction scenarios
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Conway, Roughead, and Allen, 7-</span> *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf,)

This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower to influence actions and activities at sea and
AND
ability to retaliate against aggressors conventionally, unconventionally, and with nuclear forces.
===Contention Three- Methane=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Arctic is the main area of methane release- release would cause an irreversible tipping point</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Duarte and Huertas 10/18 (Carlos Duarte, University of Western Australia</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and Antonio Delgado Huertas, Spanish Scientific Research Council CSIC, 10/18/2012, “Methane hydrates: a volatile time bomb in the Arctic”, http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/10/methane-hydrates-a-volatile-time-bomb-in-the-arctic.html)</span>
The risk with climate change is not with the direct effect of humans on the
AND
to climate change appears to be a careless walk on the razor edge.


Only extraction solves methane
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cohen ‘10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MBA, B.Sc., (Chem. Eng.) PR.Eng. Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd. (Dave, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Well, of course, this makes sense. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We wouldn't want </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">natural gas—to cause natural degassing.</span>




Extraction tech works- recent Department of Energy tests proves
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">DOE 5/2/12 (Department of Energy, May 5 2012, “U.S. and Japan Complete Successful Field Trial of Methane Hydrate Production Technologies”, http://energy.gov/articles/us-and-japan-complete-successful-field-trial-methane-hydrate-production-technologies)</span>
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu announced today the
AND
. Such an effort would again require engaging private sector and international partners.
Icebreakers are key to extraction
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hargreaves 7/19/12 (Steve Hargreaves- staff writer for CNNMoney.com, where he focuses on the energy industry, July 19 2012, “Oil: Only part of the Arctic's massive resources”, http://money.cnn.com/2012/07/17/news/economy/Arctic-oil/index.htm)</span>
NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- When Royal Dutch Shell sinks five wells off Alaska
AND
Arctic passable year round, and without requiring the services of an icebreaker.



Methane burst causes extinction- it’s comparatively worse than nuke war
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ryskin ‘3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering (Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A liquid subject to gravity and </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>

//implicated in the nuclearwinter scenario//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Turco et al., 1991).</span>

Methane bursts come first – it’s empirically more likely and could happen at any second
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dorritie 7</span> (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,”Killer in our Midst, 2007,[[http://www.killerinourmidst.com/]])
Deep beneath the surface of the sea, buried in the oxygen-depleted muds
AND
, but the likelihood of catastrophe becomes more certain with each passing year.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It’s try or die – environmental securitization is key to mobilize action</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Matthew, 2 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, Prof. of IR and Env. Poliics at UC-Irvine, “In Defense of Environment and Security Research”, ECSP Report, Summer, p 119)</span>
===Contention Four- Solvency=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">No icebreaker policy now- Coast Guard is not receiving enough money</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Beilinson 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jerry, 2012, deputy editor of popular mechanics, and former senior editor of National Geographic Adventure, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now”, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195]], MANCHESTER)</span>
When politicians argue over President Obama’s new 2013 budget proposal, one thing that should
AND
vessel transits take place in the Strait each summer. That’s America’s backyard.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Icebreakers, with Coast Guard oversight solve</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NRC, 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 1)</span>
The principal objective of the U.S. Coast Guard’s polar ice operations role
AND
by continued U.S. Coast Guard icebreaking support in the Antarctic.




<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Even if it takes a while to build new icebreakers, we could lease them in the short term for surge capabilities</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rausnitz 8/12 (Zach Rausnitz- associate editor for the Government Groups at FierceMarkets- citing Admiral Robert Papp- Top service official, responsible for all world-wide Coast Guard activities, and oversees 42,000 active duty military and 8,000 civilian full-time employees; 8,000 reserve military part-time employees; and 30,000 civilian auxiliary volunteers, August 8 2012, “Papp: The Coast Guard can't lease all its icebreakers”, http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/papp-coast-guard-cant-lease-all-its-icebreakers/2012-08-09)</span>
Leasing icebreakers from the private sector for surge capability could be useful, but the
AND
responsibilities in places where no human activity previously took place, he said.




<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Icebreaker missions are inevitable – Russia would do them if we didn’t which non-uniques your turns</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ariel </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cohen 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security @ the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, and Anton Altman, Foundation Research Volunteer, 6-18-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten” Heritage Foundation, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. online</span>
The Arctic is becoming the “wild west” of the 21st century, and
AND
.S. ability to access polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.








=Negative= 
==Cp's== 
===Commision CP -- BRAC=== 
====<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should pass the Civilian Property Realignment Act. Congress should mandate that the Civilian Property Realignment Commission have authority over <investment mechanism of the plan>. The Civilian Property Realignment Commission should recommend that <insert plan mandates>. </span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The CP can eliminate waste and target new federal investment projects. </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Cassidy 5/31/12</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rob Cassidy (“ClimateGrouch”) is editorial director of Building Design+Construction. A city planner, he is the author of several books, including “Livable Cities,” and was a co-founder of the Friends of the Chicago River., the US needs a civilian BRAC, http://www.bdcnetwork.com/blog/us-needs-civilian-brac)</span>
Quiz time: Phoenix is the country’s sixth-largest city, with 1,
AND
a federal CRAC could be a potential boon for many AEC firms. +
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">*Note AEC = Architecture Engineering and Construction*</span>
==Strategies== 
===Georgetown=== 
Round 1: Disabilities
1NC
Commission CP
Elections
T-maintenance
Downgrade DA
2NR:
Commission CP
Elections

Round 3: Port Dredging
Security
Elections
T-maintenance
Amend Shipping Act CP
2NR:
Security

Round 6: HSR
Security
Elections
Commission CP
2NR:
Commissions CP
Elections

===St. Marks=== 
Round 2: NIB
States CP
LXN
Security
Topicality
Case

Round 4: Port Dredging
Commission CP
Plan Flaw
T- Maintenance
Security K
Lxn
Case

Round 5: Plastic Highways
LXN
Security K
States CP
Food Prices Biotech
T - Maintenance
Case

===Michigan=== 
Round 2: Nuclear Statism
T/Framework
T/Investment
Stimulus DA
Nietzsche K
Case

2NR T/Framework and T/Investment

Round 4:Port Dredging
LXN
PIC
States CP
Stimulus DA
T-Maintenance
Case

2NR: PIC and LXN

Round 5: ITS
T-Trans. Inf.
LXN
Security K
States CP
Stimulus DA
Case

2NR: Security K

===Glenbrooks=== 
Round 2: HSR
Fiscal Cliff DA
States CP
Security K
Case

2NR: Fiscal Cliff + Case

Round 4: HSR
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
Downgrade DA
Case

2NR: Fiscal Cliff + Case

Round 6: Port Security
Fiscal Cliff DA
States CP
Security K
T - Transportation Infrastructure
Case (bio-d turn)

2NR: Security + Case Defense

===Dowling=== 
Round 1: Consumption Environment K Aff
BRAC CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
Downgrade DA
Anthro K

2NR: BRAC and Fiscal Cliff

Round 3: Alaska Ports
Alaska CP
Fiscal Cliff
T-Substantial
Anthro K

2NR: Alaska CP and Fiscal Cliff

Round 5:
Fiscal Cliff
States CP
Anthro K
T - Maintenance

2NR: Fiscal Cliff and Case

===Blake=== 
Round 2: Alaska Ports
Alaska CP, Fiscal Cliff, T-Invest, Anthro, Army Corps tradeoff DA
2NR: Condo Good

Round 3: Electric Vehicles
Anthro, Fiscal Cliff, T-TI, States
2NR: Fiscal Cliff and Case

Round 5: Climate Adaption
Fiscal Cliff, T-Maintenance,Anthro, Coastal Highways PIC
2NR: Coastal Highways PIC

Round 7: Natives
Give Back the Land, T-natives vs Natives (Internal CP to do it with Natives), Fiscal Cliff
2NR: Fiscal Cliff and you dont solve b/c natives isnt capitalized

===Niles North Round Robin=== 
Round 2: Evacuation TI
State PIC, Nietzche, Downgrade DA
2NR: State PIC

Round 5: HSR
Oil DA, Anthro, Downgrade DA, States CP, Bonds DA on Case
2NR: Bonds DA and Case

===Evanston=== 
Round 1: Port Security
Hagel DA, States CP, T-TI, Anthro
2NR: Hagel and Case

Round 3: Nomadic Thought D&G
Anthro, F/w, T-invest
2NR: Anthro

Round 6: Port Security
States CP, Hagel DA, Anthro, T-TI
2NR: States CP & Hagel DA

Octos: Inland Waterways
Anthro, BRAC CP, Hagel DA
2NR: Hagel DA

===Berkeley=== 
Round 1: (Policy) Bering Strait Tunnel
Immigration DA
NFU counterplan
Downgrade DA

2NR: Downgrade DA and CP

Round 4: Port Security
T - Infrastructure
Immigration DA
States CP
Consumption K

2NR: States and DA

Round 5: Spaceports
Anthro, BRAC CP, Immigration DA, T-TI

===Hoflo=== 
Round 2: Nicolas Cage Ironic
Framework
Sci-Fi K

2NR: Framework

Round 3: Electric Freight Rail
Immigration DA
Bonds DA
Consumption K
States CP
Auto Tradeoff DA
Downgrade DA on case

2NR:
Downgrade DA
Case
===NFL Districts=== 
Round 1: HSR
Immigration DA
States CP
Consumption K
Bonds DA on case
Downgrade DA on case

2NR:
Bonds DA and Case

Round 3: Port Security
Immigration DA
States CP
Security K
T-TI

2NR:
Immigration DA
States CP

===Illinois JV State=== 
Round 2: Inland Waterways
Brazil ban deforestation and us increase mda CP
Immigration DA
Downgrade DA
Consumption K

2NR:
Immigration and CAse

Round 3: Port Dredging
Immigration DA
States CP
Army Corps Tradeoff DA
PIC out of New York/New Jersey Port

2NR:
Tradeoff DA
Case

Round 5: Port Security
Immigration DA
Consumption K
States CP

2NR: Immigration DA and Case

===Illinois State=== 
Round 2: NIB
SIB CP
Immigration DA
T-Transportation Infrastructure
Consumption K

2NR:
Consumption and Case

Round 3: Port Security
Consumption K
States CP
Immigration DA

2NR: Immigration and Case

Round 5: Space Elevators
UK make tech CP
Schopenhauer K
T-Transportation Infrastructure
Immigration DA

2NR:
T