[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 08, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Adam, Writer for NPR) December 4, 2008 “Sucked into the tunnels underneath Las Vegas” [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=97800190]]</span></span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">__It would be easy...__ __...pulse of the lights__</span>//
----


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**This year the resolution calls us to address the policies of Transportation infrastructure in the United States. The typical affirmative case might include a discussion of US hegemony, the economy, readiness and security all this revolved around a discussion of roads, however our affirmation of infrastructure requires an investment not in fiatted monetary terms but instead it is an investment in what lies beneath the streets, beneath the flickering pulse of the bright lights and big cities we’re taught to see as centers of American liberty and freedom, however Mumia Abu Jamal reminds us that –** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mumia **Abu-Jamal 1998**[“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__It has often been observed...__ __...throughout the world."__**</span>

----


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**We need to challenge the current invisibility of structural violence amongst our communities. The normal functioning of debate, much like our current functioning of modern American society, constructs a methodological distinction between groups of people, deeming them a part of the in crowd or the out crowd...Discussions are either “topical” or “not-topical” – relevant or irrelevant. This constant issue excludes the oppressed from our discussions, further distancing the oppressed from ourselves, contributing to the systematic violence present in the status-quo. This is what leads to systematic violence’s invisibility and inevitability…to an invisible genocide committed against the weak and poor throughout the world. We propose an inclusionary approach through our relationships within our debate community, debate's discursive potential, and the appreciation and acceptance of diverse ways of viewing the world, including the world in which we live in and the world in which we debate in, in order to discontinue the invisibility of structural violence.**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Winter and Leighton in 1999**(Deborah DuNann Winter and Dana C. Leighton. Winter: Psychologist that specializes in Social Psych, Counseling Psych, Historical and Contemporary Issues, Peace Psychology. Leighton: PhD graduate student in the Psychology Department at the University of Arkansas. Knowledgable in the fields of social psychology, peace psychology, and ustice and intergroup responses to transgressions of justice) (Peace, conflict, and violence: Peace psychology in the 21st century. Pg 4-5)</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__**to recognize the...**__ **__...citizens to reduce it__**</span>

----


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Therefore the Role of The Ballot for this debate is to endorse a political discussion emphasizing the voices of the oppressed people affected by transportation infrastructure as we debate this year’s resolution that states: RESOLVED: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States. Your ballot acts as an endorsement of a brand of politics capable of challenging the violent norms of the status quo, voting aff is the act pressing down on the elevator taking a look at what goes down underneath the streets.** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**The failure to incorporate the lives of those who are oppressed by our politics can only lead to more oppressive politics… and eventually the failure of our politics. Paulo Friere gave us insight to why our personalized brand of politics acts as a counter hegemonic means of confronting oppression in the face of such situations when he said -** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Paulo Friere, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University,1970</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__The oppressors are the__ __ones...__** **__...held by the people__**</span>


----

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LABEL THIS PORTION AS THE STATE –</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our affirmation of the resolution escapes the politics of business as usual - opening up agency that resists the sovereigns command over all life and beauty. our affirmation of the resolution resists that which robs our political projects of agency and commitment.</span>**

<span class="CiteChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">WADIWEL</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> IN </span><span class="CiteChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">02</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Dinesh Joesph, “Cows and Sovereignty: Biopower and Animal Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol.1 #2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__**The living population...**__ **__...and the non-human.__**</span>

----

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**You can label this final part as The Poor – Before we start cross-x we wish to return ourselves to the discussion of the poor. Help for one another goes beyond any material condition in the world. Voting affirmative understands our advocacy as not only a call of material responsibility but also that of spiritual responsibility. Politics minus an understanding of non-material conditions lead to what bell hooks calls a psychic genocide. She says –** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.5pt;">**hooks**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">TY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK, PROFESSOR, THEN DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, 1995–2004; BEREA COLLEGE, BEREA, KY, DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR-IN-RESIDENCE, BEGINNING 2004. CO-FOUNDER, HAMBONE LITERARY MAGAZINE</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">. **2000** [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">bELL,WHERE WE STAND: CLASS MATTERS, P. 129-130]</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">__The poor may...__ __...needs of the spirit.__</span>**

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]