[[toc]]
=Contact= 
Aff: omakhoul@gmail.com
Neg: sjgoldman1996@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Berkeley== 
Same thing as at Heritage Hall, except the plan text was

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the Title XI loan guarantee program in the United States.**
==1AC Heritage Hall== 
===Contention 1 is Marine Highways=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Status quo Marine Transportation System infrastructure is failing in capacity and investment.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cox et al, 2011</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">- Joseph J. is President and CEO of Chamber of Shipping of America; Matsuda, Hon. David T., Administrator, Maritime Administration; Mohr, John M., Executive Director, Port of Everett, Washington; Roberts, Michael G., Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Crowley Maritime Corporation, on behalf of American Maritime Partnership; Tellez, Augustin, Executive Vice President, Seafarers International Union (Joseph J., “Creating Jobs and Increasing U.S Exports By Enhancing The Marine Transportation System,” Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure House of Representatives, June 14, 2011. [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/html/CHRG-112hhrg66919.htm]])//AS//</span>

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, because of much of the system's infrastructure is aging</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">expand the system to meet its future challenges. Nevertheless, we must find a way forward.</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**There are three internal links to the economy:**</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**First is jobs and second is exports**</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Capacity limitations prevent economic growth by rendering MTS ineffective**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Lobiondo, et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Congressional Testimony, Frank A. LoBiondo is the U.S. Representative for New Jersey's 2nd congressional district, serving since 1995. He is a member of the Republican Party, CREATING JOBS AND INCREASING U.S. EXPORTS BY ENHANCING THE MARINE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON COAST GUARD AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION, COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:BIbLMqrPg5gJ:www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg66919.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us]]] </span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In order to remain competitive in a global economy, improving</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ensures the U.S. market remains pre-eminent in global trade. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.</span>//



//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Third is congestion**</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**a. Congestion is the biggest stranglehold on the economy— costs act as economic multipliers across all sectors**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Cambridge Systematics ‘2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The Benefits of Reducing Congestion: NCHRP Project 8-36, Task 22 Demonstrating Positive Benefits of Transportation Investment,” January 2002 [[http://www.transportation.org/sites/planning/docs/nchrp22_4.pdf]]]</span></span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Delivery of goods and services. Congestion increases the cost of delivering products</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">market available to a business leads to an average 6.5 percent increase in business productivity.29</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**b. Expansion of Marine Highways will relieve this congestion, preventing economic collapse**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**MARAD 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 [[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf]])</span></span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NJain</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Traffic congestion imposes serious costs on society in the form of</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">facilitate the transition to greater use of this underutilized national asset.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, economic collapse triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">08</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, 2008, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Independently, free trade creates structural disincentives for war and deters terrorism**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Griswold, 11**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12]] BJM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend.”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Investment in MTS sustains US agricultural exports</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Khachatryan and Casavant 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">—Research Associate and Director/Professor at the Freight Policy Transportation Institute at the School of Economic Sciences at Washington State Unviersity (Hayk and Ken, THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">IMPROVEMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE, [[http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]], EL)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The efficient and affordable freight transportation system that facilitates the linkage</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">waterways in the US. The CSRS links the Pacific Northwest (PNW) economy to the rest of the world through the 16 ports.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The collapse of U.S. agricultural exports turns every impact and makes extinction inevitable</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lugar, 4</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – U.S. Senator – Indiana, (Richard, “Plant Power” Our Planet v. 14 n. 3, [[http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil in the Middle East</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">play a decisive humanitarian role in the survival of billions of people and the health of our planet.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 is the Shipbuilding Industry</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steady federal funding is a prerequisite to naval power by revitalizing the shipbuilding industrial base, generating jobs, and maintaining defense capabilities</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AMO ’12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [American Maritime Officer “Title XI loan guarantees generate U.S. shipbuilding jobs,” May 2012, [[http://www.amo-union.org/News/2012/201205/201205.pdf]], AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As the subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">in appropriations leg- islation for Fiscal Year 2013.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan stabilizes the shipbuilding industry, reduces costs, and solve all institutional inefficiencies</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cropsey ’12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropse</span><span class="SmallText" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">y, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf]], AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But accelerating cost,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">turnover and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Specifically, it prevents cost overruns</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Margaronis ’08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[Stas Margaronis, “Green ships can fight global warming,” p. 44, www.sustainableshipping.com/library/view_paper?item_id=30, AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even today, Congressional reports continue to point out that billions of dollars</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">is actually costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Naval readiness is rapidly declining now with no funding for modernization— Investment is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eaglen ’12</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[3 April 2012, MacKenzie Eaglen, Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, Lanterloon,“U.S. military faces a readiness crisis,” [[http://lanterloon.com/u-s-military-faces-a-readiness-crisis/]], AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">None of America’s armed forces can meet all of the demands</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">that is sustained through the long term.” However, the price of U.S. weakness will be greater in the long run.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Naval power key to deter major power war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conway et al 7</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Commandant of the Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral U.S. Navy, Chief of Naval Operations, and Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Commandant of the Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower”, October 2007,[[http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]])//AMV</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deter major power war. No other disruption is as potentially disastrous</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">sea control and power projection enable extended campaigns ashore.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, causes escalation of every transnational threat –revitalizing the faltering ship building industry is key</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">NLUS, 12</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">– a nonprofit organization dedicated to educating our citizens about the importance of sea power to U.S. national security and supporting the men and women of the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and U.S.-flag Merchant Marine and their families (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity: Maritime Policy 2012-13”, Navy League of the United States, 1/21/12, [[http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf]] | AK)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global engagement is critical to the U.S. economy,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taking care of our wounded warriors is fundamental.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, the deterrence impact is proven— competitors will only surpass us absent investment</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Holmes ’11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[24 January 2011, James R. Holmes, a defense analyst for The Diplomat and an associate professor of strategy at the US Naval War College where he specializes in US, Chinese and Indian maritime strategy and US diplomatic and military history, co-author of Red Star over the Pacific, an Atlantic Monthly Best Foreign Affairs Book for 2010 and a former US Navy surface warfare officer. “Can U.S. Navy Shift to Pacific?” [[http://thediplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2012/06/26/u-s-navys-quantity-problem/]], AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As naval technology gallops on, can fleets execute the same missions with fewer assets?</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A mismatch among policy, strategy, and forces looms.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We’ll Isolate 2 Scenarios</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First is China</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of naval capability only emboldens China- plan prevents miscalculation and escalation, and strengthens US-China relations</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WSJ ’10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [19 August 2010, Wall Street Journal, “The Chinese Military Challenge The PLA is seeking to push U.S. forces out of Asian waters,”[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704554104575434740649387972.html]], AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Pentagon's annual report on China's military power finally surfaced Monday,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">defend its friends and interests in the region against all challengers.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, there’s a high risk of impact - Perception of constrained U.S. Naval forces coupled with Chinese nationalism makes even a minor maritime conflict escalate</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kraska ’10</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[James Kraska, “China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, [[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]], 5/6/10, AZhang]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fifth, China is riding a wave of national overconfidence</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">alone will recalibrate the balance of sea power.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact is multiple nuclear conflicts</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Straits Times 2k</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second is Iran</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Iran’s asymmetric warfare capabilities have surpassed ours— Plan prevents naval risk aversion, Iranian adventurism, and Strait of Hormuz conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Singh 2012</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">– Managing editor of the Washington Institute (Michael, “The Real Iranian Threat in the Gulf” January 3, 2012, [[http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/the-real-iranian-threat-in-the-gulf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even if Iran ignored these considerations and proceeded with an</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">belligerence nor passivity, but a robust posture that makes Tehran think twice.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That escalates to nuclear war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Ben-Meir 2007</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at New York University (Alon, “Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance”, 2/6/12, UPI, ,[[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That Iran stands today able to challenge or even defy the United States in every</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to warn Iran of the severe consequences of not halting its nuclear program.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-UT 1AC-Plan]]Plan</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its Marine Transportation System infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>**

===**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention Three is Solvency</span>**=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The federal government is key for multiple reasons</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Best solves the expansion of Marine Highways and Shipbuilding Industry</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zimmer, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at [[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]], [[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]] </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For the United States to compete in the global market it is imperative that it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The budget cuts to this program demonstrate a shortsightedness that is disheartening at best.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Leverages private investment and reduces congestion</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cook, 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">— former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012,[[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water]], Deech)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">***Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For more than a decade, Europe and the U.S. have witnessed increasing</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">that is being purchased by the vessel owner and included as a transaction cost.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Has Jurisdiction and key to Leadership</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AAPA, 11 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">- AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)/GP|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)//GP]]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Over time these constitutional responsibilities have been further defined and</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">America’s economic vitality, jobs, and global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, states fail— they require the federal government for effective port upgrades because of interstate competition and a failure to share solutions</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Puentes 11 – Director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow and director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings, former director of infrastructure at the intelligent transportation society of America, masters degree in urban planning, May 23, 2011 “Move It: How the U.S. Can Improve Transportation Policy”; [[http://www.brookings.edu-/research/opinions/2011/05/23transportation-policy-puentes]]; Brookings, Accessed June 19 2012)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The country needs to become more export-oriented for the future health of the economy.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Now, I ask you: How does any of this help get us closer to our national goals?</span>
=Negative= 
==Heritage Hall== 
===Heritage Hall DH (Gas Tax-Warming, Econ)=== 
Effects T-Investment (2NR)
Auto Industry Disad (oops)
Case--warming, econ

===Crossings Christian CB (Dredging-Terrorism, Heg, Econ)=== 
Immigration Reform (2NR)
T-In
Effects T-Increase=mandate (2NR)
Case--terrorism, heg, econ (2NR)

==Berkeley== 
===Head Royce BK (Removing Damns-Salmon/BioD, Framing-Anthro)=== 
T-In
Immigration Reform Politics (2NR)
Case--BioD, Framing (2NR)

===Leland High SA (Icebreakers-Arctic War, Methane, Naval Readiness)=== 
T vehicles
Immigration Reform Politics (2NR)
Case Turns-Methane (2NR)
Case D- Arctic War, Naval Readiness

==Fayetteville== 
This was in-state, so we have no problem with being predictable :)
===Some NLR West Team (Bikes with a weird automobiliity=biopower adv?)=== 
T sub=$556 bil
Privatization CP
Immigration Reform (Latin America) Politics (2NR)
Case Turns--Biopower good? (2NR)
Solvency (2NR)
===Some Cabot Team (HSR--oil dependency, warming, econ)=== 
Immigration Reform Politics (2NR)
Solvency (2NR)
Case turns (2NR)
Privatization CP
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
[[media type="custom" key="22442484" align="center"]]