[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Therefore, morality is defined by the function of the actor. Furthermore, ought implies can: Morality is defined by the Merriam Webster Dictionary</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> as “a doctrine or system of moral conduct.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And the function of the government in terms of the resolution is utilitarian.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The government’s function is utilitarian. Goodin</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GOODIN 1995 (Robert E. Goodin, Professor of Social Sciences & Philosopher at the Research School of Social Sciences at Australian National University, Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy, p. 8-10)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The strength of utilitarianism… officials to adopt.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the standard must be maximizing the expected utilitarian Benefits for Citizens within the contained universe</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Is the plan text: the United States Federal Government should adopt a single payer health care system that covers all of its citizens.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown contextualizes the plan.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What is Universal Healthcare?, Annie Brown, March 18, 2011, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.pnhp.org/news/2011/march/what-is-universal-healthcare]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The organization has… in. Nobody out."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inherency: ObamaCare doesn’t entail a universal health care system. EmpowerNetwork</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> continues,</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Patient Protection… an abysmal failure.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Econ Advantage</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economy headed to a double-dip recession – we have to act NOW</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sivy, 8/28 (Michael, Chartered Financial Analyst and a former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm. He was an investment columnist at Money for more than 23 years as well as a guest columnist for TIME's international edition, 8/28/12, TIME,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://business.time.com/author/michaelsivy/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, “Michael Sivy,” ADM)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In addition to… of another recession.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, Health Care reform is key to economic stimulus, status quo policies consume a huge amount of our GDP.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.businessweek.com/authors/566-chris-farrell|Chris Farrell]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, December 05, 2008, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.businessweek.com/stories/2008-12-05/want-real-stimulus-try-universal-health-carebusinessweek-business-news-stock-market-and-financial-advice]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Want Real Stimulus? Try Universal Health Care</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Yet major health-… slip during the recession.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, a single payer system is key to jumpstarting the economy and helps companies. IHSP.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IHSP, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://nurses.3cdn.net/c6fb9a313be501086e_1vm6y1duy.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Single Payer/Medicare for All: An Economic Stimulus Plan for the Nation , Prepared by the Institute for Health & Socio-Economic Policy, In consultation with Robert Fountain, Economics Consultant</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our analysis demonstrates… nations already are.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, single payer would save 570 billion dollars in just initial costs.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gerald Friedman, is a professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst, March/April 2012, Funding a national single-Payer system: “Medicare for all” would save billions, and could be redistributive,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.dollarsandsense.org/archives/2012/0312friedman.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“The Expanded & improved… the poor under Medicaid.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 1 is Global Nuclear Conflict:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US crisis tanks the global economy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RAHMAN ‘11 - former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies. (Ashfaqur . “Another global recession?”. August 21. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Several developments… W-shaped recession.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline and volatility heightens the risk of nuclear global conflict—multiple scenarios</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Burrows and Harris - Counselor in the National Intelligence Council, Member at the National Intelligence Council - 2009 (Mathew J. Burrows, Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World—an unclassified report by the NIC published every four years that projects trends over a 15-year period, has served in the Central Intelligence Agency since 1986, holds a Ph.D. in European History from Cambridge University, and Jennifer Harris, Member of the Long Range Analysis Unit at the National Intelligence Council, holds an M.Phil. in International Relations from Oxford University and a J.D. from Yale University, 2009 (“Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, Volume 32, Issue 2, April, Available Online at </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Accessed 08-22-2011, p. 35-37)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample [end page 35] opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even so, history…The second scenario is poverty:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">UHC is critical to solving for poverty—the negative entrenches this harm.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anirudh Krishna, Sept. 27, 2010, Health care’s link to poverty, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ajc.com/news/news/opinion/health-cares-link-to-poverty/nQkbf/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. Census… for ordinary folks</span>

----
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/morality]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ibid</span>
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]