<span style="font-size: 85%;">[[toc]]
</span>





=<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">Aff</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">Disabilities Aff</span>== 

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Adv - Status Quo</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of transportation infrastructure investment systematically excludes people with disabilities</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">AAPD, ‘12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23,[[http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation and mobility play key roles in the struggle for civil rights and equal opportunity</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">on accessible taxis, a lack of requirements has meant very uneven progress.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation infrastructure funding isn’t neutral – resolving disparities in funding for disabled access is a vital starting point</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Langan, ‘1</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Celeste, Associate Professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, “Mobility Disability”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">To think about mobility disability is to think about norms of speed and ranges of</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">than the ADA’s “individuals with wheelchairs”: the mass-transit dependent. </span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#New NDCA Affirmative-1AC Adv - Discrimination]]1AC Adv - Discrimination</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Society’s treatment of disability is a reflection of its tolerance for __all__ hostile acts towards “otherness” – //only// the Aff can halt eugenic extermination</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Bagenstos, 2K</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Samuel R., Law Professor at Harvard, 86 Va. L. Rev. 397, April)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Erving Goffman's notion of stigma is a useful tool here. Although "stigma"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">people with disabilities have effectively marked that group as a "dependent caste."</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eugenic disability policy forms the basis for racism and sexism</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Wolbring, ‘ 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Gregor Wolbring, Development, 2008, 51, (252–258) Associate Professor Community Rehabilitation and Disability Studies, Past President of Canadian Disability Studies Association and member of the board of the Society for Disability Studies (USA) </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://secure.gvsu.edu/cms3/assets/3B8FF455-E590-0E6C-3ED0F895A6FBB287/the_politics_of_ableism.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sexism is partly driven by a form of ableism that favours certain abilities, and</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">qualities are ‘abilities’ that make them fit for specific duties and occupations.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This process of biological reductionism culminates in genocidal violence</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes, ‘2</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The dominant framework for understanding disability in the modern period has been the medical model</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, biological reductionism may at its worst translate into a politics of genocide.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Biologized procedures of regulation cause all violent conflict – eugenic violence is a more controlling factor for warfare than state interests</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Elden, ‘2</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Stuart, Professor of Politics at the University Warwick, Boundary 2, 29.2)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The reverse side is the power to allow death. State racism is a recoding</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">men to be killed. (VS, 180; WK, 136)</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#New NDCA Affirmative-1AC - Plan Text]]1AC - Plan Text</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Thus we present the following plan – the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment to all United States transportation infrastructure that is not currently designated as “key” under the Americans with Disabilities Act. </span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#New NDCA Affirmative-1AC - Solvency]]1AC - Solvency</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The ADA requires “key” transport stations be made accessible but overlooks countless others – the plan guarantees that //all// infrastructure is made accessible</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">AAPD, ’11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – American Association for People With Disabilities, "Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.aapd.com/resources/publications/transportation-disabilities.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> )</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Train travel has also improved, yet still imposes certain obstacles. With regard to</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">is accessible, and in some cases, this may make travel prohibitive.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Federal action is key – devolution independently perpetuates discrimination</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Fine & Hall, ’10 – </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prof of Economics U of London & Hall Director of the Public Services International Research Unit – U of Greenwich 2010 Ben & Contesting Neoliberalism: Public Sector Alternatives for Service Delivery Working Paper for the Milan European Economy Workshops </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.economia.unimi.it/uploads/wp/DEAS-2010_27wp.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Other areas of policymaking, as with industrial and regional policy, health, education</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">obviously in the collaboration between companies, donors and development banks over privatisations.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“State bad” arguments miss the point – inaccessibility makes political participation impossible – if political management is bad then only the plan can challenge it</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Bérubé, ‘3</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring,[[http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is striking, nonetheless, that so few leftists have understood disability in these</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, which is to say, for the good of all of us.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#New NDCA Affirmative-1AC - Adv - Framing]]1AC - Adv - Framing</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Utilitarian reasoning creates violence towards disability </span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes, ‘7 –</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Head of Division of Sociology Glasgow Caledonian University 2007 Bill Being disabled: towards a critical social ontology for disability studies Disability & Society 22.7 Taylor & Francis</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Readers may have noticed in this very preliminary and adumbrated account of what a critical</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">or in the most mundane everyday words or deeds that exclude or invalidate.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Focus on existential risk disavows disability and creates a self-fulfilling politics of fear </span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes, ‘7 –</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Head of Division of Sociology Glasgow Caledonian University 2007 Bill Being disabled: towards a critical social ontology for disability studies Disability & Society 22.7 Taylor & Francis</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Indeed, the invulnerable self is a fantasy and form of self‐deception associated</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">fantasy of absolute able bodiedness’ (Thomson, 1997, p. 45).</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Preventing structural violence is an __ethical decision-making rule__ – it’s the __root cause__ and __outweighs__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Nielsen, ‘4 –</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Michael E. Nielsen, Associate Professor of Psychology at Georgia Southern University, 2004 (“Mormonism and Psychology: A Broader Vision for Peace,” Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought, Volume 37, Issue 1, Spring, Available Online at </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.psychwww.com/psyrelig/peace.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Accessed 08-02-2010)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Structural violence refers to aspects of society that limit people’s ability to reach their potential</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">of citizenship.[40] Similar problems affect minority groups throughout the world.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Security-based predictions create a state permanent war and make catastrophes inevitable</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Der Derian, ‘5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(James, Professor of International Relations and Political Science at Brown University,[[http://www.harvardir.org/articles/1430/2/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It often takes a catastrophe to reveal the illusory beliefs we continue to harbor in</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-scale accident is now the prolongation of total war by other means.”</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Single events can’t produce human extinction </span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Tonn, ‘5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Bruce, Futures Studies Department, Corvinus University of Budapest, “Human Extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenarios,” www.budapestfutures.org/downloads/abstracts/Bruce%20Tonn%20-%20Abstract.pdf)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The human species faces numerous threats to its existence. These include global climate change</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Humans appear to be resilient to extinction with respect to single events.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zero risk of major war</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Luft and Korin, ‘9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Gal Luft, executive director of the Washington, DC based Institute for the Analysis of Global Securit, and Anne Korin, co-director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, 2009 [Energy Security Challenges for the 21st Century: A Reference Handbook p72-3]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The final and perhaps most important reason to not expect a rise in resource wars</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">resources or anything else—is disappearing from the Earth. [sic]</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Nyquist, 99</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">[J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com,[[http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As I write about Russia's nuclear war preparations, I get some interesting mail in</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">mode, these weapons would produce few (if any) fallout casualties.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">Ruralism Aff</span>== 
===Ruralism Advantage=== 
**Rural transportation investment is being put on backburners in the status quo. No one wants to support a shrinking population**.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brown ’12</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Alex Brown, March 28th, 2012, A researcher for the Center for State and Local Government Excellence. Prior to joining the Center, he worked for ICMA as a project manager, focusing primarily on public safety consulting initiatives.¶ Alex also supports the research efforts of the National Association of State Retirement Administrators (NASRA), identifying, compiling, and updating information about state pension plans.¶ Alex earned a B.S. in Interdisciplinary Social Sciences from James Madison University in 2006 and his MPP from George Mason University’s School of Public Policy in 2012. http://icma.org/en/icma/knowledge_network/blogs/blogpost/639/Rural_Transportation_Issues_Loom_Large_as_Congress_Begins_to_Act)</span>
The U.S. rural population is at an all-time low of
AND
some targeted changes to the current law rather than a direct extension. ¶

**Current plans keep rural infrastructure on a low end of the budget**
**Mallett et al ’11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(William J Mallett – Specialist in Transportation Policy, Steven Maguire – Specialist in Public Finance, Kevin R Kosar – Analyst in American National Government, 12-14-2011, for the Congressional Research Service, National Infrastructure Bank: Overview and </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Current Legislation, page 7, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42115.pdf)</span>
Congress would provide AIFA with a $10 billion startup appropriation. Administrative costs would
AND
be to limit the federal exposure to potential losses from rural infrastructure projects.

**People in rural areas are currently ignored by the government with spending projects. Federal policies are currently the problem, thus increasing __federal__ investment in rural areas is the only solution.**
**Bassett ’03** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Debra Lyn Bassett, The University of Alabama School of Law, Ruralism, pages 279-280, 2003)</span>
The harm to rural dwellers goes beyond stereotyping; discrimination against rural areas is seen
AND
large agribusiness – only approximately six percent of all rural dwellers are farmers.

**We solve through recognition, role models, and remediation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bassett ’03</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Debra Lyn Bassett, The University of Alabama School of Law, Ruralism, 2003)</span>
Rural dwellers suffer numerous documented disadvantages, and recognition of the burden of these disadvantages
AND
be instituted to lessen the impact of Ruralism in our laws and regulations.
**Ruralism exacerbates all other forms of discrimination**
**Bassett ’03** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Debra Lyn Bassett, The University of Alabama School of Law, Ruralism, 2003)</span>
Ruralism has two equally devastating impacts. First, ruralism exacerbates¶ the impact of
AND
acknowledged to exist, it is discovered in virtually all aspects of living.

**Only the federal government can provide the investment and leadership to solve the plan. Current issues make today different from the past. Mobility is key to solve**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marsico ’09</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Dale J. Marsico, Executive Director of the Community Transportation Association, “Transportation Challenges of Rural America,” March 12th, 2009, http://www.ctaa.org/webmodules/webarticles/articlefiles/Marsico_Testimony_3-12-09.pdf)</span>
Although it is sometimes easier to separate communities by size and distance, it is
AND
health services and other opportunities that smaller communities can ¶ no longer provide.

**Cumulative discrimination is separate from normal discrimination and outweighs any other discrimination impacts the neg will claim**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blank ’04 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Rebecca M., Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan, Tracing the Economic Impact of Cumulative Discrimination, December 2004, https://aeaweb.org/assa/2005/0107_1015_1102.pdf)</span>
Define cumulative discrimination as the measurement of discriminatory effects ¶ over time and across domains
AND
¶ opportunities) affect the educational and earning opportunities in the next generation.

**Cumulative discrimination is a vicious circle of structural violence through feedback effects and reverse causality**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blank ’04 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Rebecca M., Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan, Tracing the Economic Impact of Cumulative Discrimination, December 2004, https://aeaweb.org/assa/2005/0107_1015_1102.pdf)</span>
The concept of cumulative discrimination is of limited interest if it simply refers ¶ to
AND
black workers less likely to be hired or promoted by ¶ white employers.

**Institutional discrimination outweighs**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freeman No Date</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Jo Freeman is an American feminist, political scientist, writer and attorney. As a student at the University of California, Berkeley in the 1960s, she became active in organizations working for civil liberties and the civil rights movement, just Google her. Her name explodes on topics of social justice and discrimination, http://www.uic.edu/orgs/cwluherstory/jofreeman/womensociety/institidiscrim.htm)</span>
Discrimination can occur both individually and institutionally. Acts of individual discrimination are often both
AND
. It is very necessary to put in the required effort to stop.

**Rural transportation systems are key to equality and value to life in rural areas**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dabson et al ’11 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(A RUPRI RURAL POLICY BRIEF ¶ Rethinking Federal ¶ Investments in Rural ¶ Transportation: ¶ Rural Considerations ¶ Regarding Reauthorization of ¶ the Surface Transportation Act¶ Brian Dabson- frequent speaker around the world about rural policies in the united states and president of the Rural Policy Research Institute and has over 30 years of experience in public, private, and ¶ nonprofit sectors on both sides of the Atlantic dedicated to expanding ¶ economic opportunity for low-income people and distressed ¶ communities and teaches at Harry S. Truman School of public affairs at the University of Missouri Columbia, Thomas G. Johnson- research areas include rural economic development, fiscal and economic impact analysis, local government finance, and transportation economics. Dr. Johnson has studied the role of education, health care, infrastructure, and industrial development policies, in rural development in Canada, United States and Europe, ¶ and Charles W. Fluharty- Charles W. Fluharty is Founding Director of the Rural Policy Research Institute (RUPRI), the only national policy institute in the U.S. solely dedicated to assessing the rural impacts of public policies¶ April 2011, http://www.rupri.org/Forms/RUPRI_Transportation_April2011.pdf)</span>
Expectations of the nation’s public transportation system are high, and certainly no less so
AND
destination communities focus on welcoming visitors and opening up access to tourist attractions;

**Rural areas need more transit but urban areas are the only ones to receive it. Problems in the rural transit are only arriving today because of a growing need for rural transportation**.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Forbes et al ‘12</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Sasha Forbes, Alia Anderson, Sarah Kline, and Vernon </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Brundage Jr. Layout design and editing of the report was performed by John Hughes, May 2012, Putting Transit ¶ to Work in ¶ Main Street America¶ How Smaller Cities and Rural Places ¶ Are Using Transit and Mobility Investments ¶ to Strengthen Their Economies ¶ and Communities, http://www.reconnectingamerica.org/assets/PDFs/201205ruralfinal.pdf)</span>
Today’s rural residents ¶ are more likely to engage ¶ in a wide variety of
AND
the unique mobility challenges of the transit-dependent population in these areas.

**Experience of transportation in rural areas improves the value of life for rural citizens**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Forbes et al ‘12</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Sasha Forbes, Alia Anderson, Sarah Kline, and Vernon </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Brundage Jr. Layout design and editing of the report was performed by John Hughes, May 2012, Putting Transit ¶ to Work in ¶ Main Street America¶ How Smaller Cities and Rural Places ¶ Are Using Transit and Mobility Investments ¶ to Strengthen Their Economies ¶ and Communities, http://www.reconnectingamerica.org/assets/PDFs/201205ruralfinal.pdf)</span>
The case studies make clear that public transportation investments are making a difference by stimulating
AND
from being able to get to their jobs, they are much happier.”

**Federal action is key – devolving authority is an act of dismissing responsibility – this form of politics <span style="font-family: Wingdings;">è</span> serial policy failure**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fine & Hall 10 - </span> Prof of Economics U of London & Director of the Public Services International Research Unit – U of Greenwich<span style="font-size: 13pt;">(</span>Ben & Contesting Neoliberalism: Public Sector Alternatives for Service Delivery Working Paper for the Milan European Economy Workshops 2010 http://www.economia.unimi.it/uploads/wp/DEAS-2010_27wp.pdf)
Other areas of policymaking, as with industrial and regional policy, health, education
AND
delivery by an authoritarian central state without provision of support for necessary resources.
In short, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">neoliberalism is not just marked by policy and ideology favouring the private over the public sector, but this has itself been institutionalised within government capacity itself and the commercial pressures to which it responds. And </span>this has been devastating for the potential for formulating and implementing alternative forms of public provision.
For, government and international policy-making itself is subject to institutionalised corporate capture
AND
obviously in the collaboration between companies, donors and development banks over privatisations.
==== ==== 
===Framework=== 
**Utilitarianism destroys value to life by forcing the individual to take risks for the overall utility**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schroeder 86</span>(Christopher H., Prof of Law at Duke, “Rights Against Risks,”, April, Columbia Law Review, pp. 495-562, http://www.jstor.org/pss/1122636)
From the individual's point of view, the balancing of costs and benefits that utilitarianism
AND
tributes to increasing total utility. Otherwise, the individual can be discarded.

**Maintaining proper moral values is the only way to obtain a free society, which outweighs nuclear extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shue 89 (</span>Henry, Professor of Ethics and Public Life, Princeton University, “Nuclear Deterrence and Moral Restraint, pp. 134-5)
But is it realistic to suppose that American citizens would risk not just their
AND
-centered” as unworkable foundations for U.S. security policy.

**Expert predictions are wrong—we can’t know the future**
Louis <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Menand</span>, 12/20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">05</span> [“Everybody’s an Expert,” The New Yorker, [[http://www.newyorker.com/archive]]
/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?currentPage=1]
It is the somewhat gratifying lesson of Philip Tetlock’s new book, “Expert Political
AND
swerves in the short run, but the long run irons them out.

**Questions of representations come first – the way we discuss policy is more important than the policy itself**.
Roxanne Lynn <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Doty</span>, Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at Arizona State University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1996</span> (//Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Representation in North-South Relations//, Published by the University of Minnesota Press, Borderlines Series, ISBN 0816627622, p. 5-6)
This study begins with the premise that representation is an inherent and important aspect of
AND
are articulated with the exercise of political, military, and economic power.

**As a judge you must not base decisions on worst-case scenarios but rather balanced risk assessment**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rescher ‘83</span>
[Nicholas, Professor of Philosophy at University of Pittsburgh, Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management, Pg 50]
The "worst possible case fixation" is one of the most damaging modes of
AND
a satisfactory index of the overall seriousness or gravity of a situation of hazard

**Preventing structural violence is an __ethical decision-making rule__ – it’s the __root cause__ and __outweighs the case__**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nielsen, ‘4 –</span> Michael E. Nielsen, Associate Professor of Psychology at Georgia Southern University, 2004 (“Mormonism and Psychology: A Broader Vision for Peace,” Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought, Volume 37, Issue 1, Spring, Available Online at http://www.psychwww.com/psyrelig/peace.htm, Accessed 08-02-2010)
Structural violence refers to aspects of society that limit people’s ability to reach their potential
AND
of citizenship.[40] Similar problems affect minority groups throughout the world.

**Security-based predictions create a state permanent war and make catastrophes inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Der Derian, ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Professor of International Relations and Political Science at Brown University, http://www.harvardir.org/articles/1430/2/)</span>
It often takes a catastrophe to reveal the illusory beliefs we continue to harbor in
AND
-scale accident is now the prolongation of total war by other means.”

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Single events can’t produce human extinction </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tonn, ‘5</span> (Bruce, Futures Studies Department, Corvinus University of Budapest, “Human Extinction
Scenarios,” www.budapestfutures.org/downloads/abstracts/Bruce%20Tonn%20-%20Abstract.pdf)
The human species faces numerous threats to its existence. These include global climate change
AND
. Humans appear to be resilient to extinction with respect to single events.

**Zero risk of major war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Luft and Korin, ‘9</span> – Gal Luft, executive director of the Washington, DC based Institute for the Analysis of Global Securit, and Anne Korin, co-director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, 2009 [Energy Security Challenges for the 21st Century: A Reference Handbook p72-3]
The final and perhaps most important reason to not expect a rise in resource wars
AND
resources or anything else—is disappearing from the Earth. [sic]

**Nuclear war doesn't cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nyquist, 99</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]</span>
As I write about Russia's nuclear war preparations, I get some interesting mail in
AND
mode, these weapons would produce few (if any) fallout casualties.

===Plan text:=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in accessible rural transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>

==Port Security Aff== 
===Plan Text=== 
[[The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Port Security through the Port Security Grant Program.|Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Port Security through the Port Security Grant Program.]]


===[[Inherency]]=== 
====Vital port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a successful WMD attack are high- Cost and technology aren’t barriers==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al, 12</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse,” New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo…risk such delays.

====Solutions exist but drastic cuts to the Port Security Grant Program destroy port security==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html

This week the … to be implemented now.

====The Port Security Grant Program is severely underfunded – the plan is key to fill critical infrastructure gaps and ensure effective port security==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Holmes, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, Deputy Executive Director, Port of Los Angeles, Testimony of Captain John M. Holmes Deputy Executive Director of Operations Port of Los Angeles Before The United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Homeland Security, “Budget Hearing - Federal Emergency Management Agency – Director and State & Local Witnesses”, March 7, http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf, p. 1-2)</span>

Since 9/11,…grant funding reductions.
====Your disads are non-unique- new PSGP projects were just funded but overall funding is collapsing==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PTI, 7-9-</span>12 – Port Technology International, “Port of Oakland awarded $3.5 million in security grants,” http://www.porttechnology.org/news/port_of_oakland_awarded_3.5_million_in_security_grants/

The Port of Oakland …of $388.6 million.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ports are uniquely federal because the //transportation role// is inherently cross-border </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TRB, ‘4</span> – TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARDOF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES. A group composing a major report over a span of months, composed of experts from The National Academies of Science and Engineering, The Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council. “The Marine Transportation System and the Federal Role,” Special Report 279, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr279.pdf]].

The physical …for design, equipage, and operations.


===[[Contention TWO is NPG|NPG]]=== 
====The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.

1. What is the …within the NPG.

====The NPG is critical to __coordination__ against __large-scale__, __catastrophic__ events==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].

As part of …to our national preparedness.

====The NPG is //necessary// to solving __each__ internal link==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].

In accordance …National Risk Assessment.

====__Cybersecurity__ is vital to prevent __escalatory__ __great power__ nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)

This paper will …control centres directly__.__

====__Pandemics__ at ports //instantly// kill __billions__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Greger, ‘6</span>**–** Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States. Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com]

A pandemic …worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579

====Pandemics outweigh on __probability__ and __size__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

A flu pandemic …today's deadliest threat.

====__Natural disasters__ threaten human extinction __faster__ than any war scenario==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]]]

The human species …demise of humankind.

====Transnational threats are try or die for human extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Feffer, ‘9</span>. John, Contributing Member/Researcher at Foreign Policy in Focus, “World Beat,” FPIF, Feb 17. Vol. 4 No. 7. Lexis.

The neoconservative…totting up the numbers.

====The __process__ of the plan is vital – it shapes __core budget decisions__ and //all// future federal assistance==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].

The Goal…our resource ¶ posture.

===[[ECON|Econ]]=== 
====It drives <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__one-third__</span> of the global economy – ports are the //most// <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__valuable__</span> and <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__vulnerable__</span> targets==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abt, ‘3</span> – Ph.D., Clark C., Risk analysis prepared for US DOT/RSPA/Volpe National Transportation. “The Economic Impact of Nuclear Terrorist Attacks on Freight Transport Systems in an Age of Seaport Vulnerability,” Apr 23, [[http://www.abtassociates.com/reports/es-economic_impact_of_nuclear_terrorist_attacks.pdf]].

Today a third…detonated before unloading.

====A SINGLE attack on U.S. ports creates a GLOBAL EMBARGO on trade==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn, ‘3</span> – Stephen, Ph.D.,Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.)Senior Fellow in National Security Studies at CFR, , Prof @ Northeastern U, “The Fragile State of Container Security,” Written Testimony before a hearing of theU.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, [[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]].

A year later…up international trade.
====It would immediately spillover causing economic gridlock around the world==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schanzer and Eyerman, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe, Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf)</span>

Scenario Three…out of food.

====We have three scenarios:==== 
====Scenario 1 GLOBAL ECONOMIC CHAOS:==== 
====Global economic chaos guarantees Russia-China war, instability in Korea and Iran, and disease spread – it accesses every major impact==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Green and Schrage, 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael J., Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Stephen P., Associate Professor at Georgetown University and CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business also a former senior official with the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, “Its Not Just the Economy”, Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span>


Facing the worst…China to embrace at home.

====Free trade creates structural disincentives against war and it’s reverse-causal==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griswold, ‘11</span> – Daniel, Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at Cato. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal, v9, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20/|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf ]]

Our more globalized world… civil conflict and war.

====Scenario 2 is AFRICA==== 
====US financial crisis causes African instability==== 
**Bakrania 9** - Shiv Bakrania is the Manager of the Global Facilitation Network For Security Sector Reform and Brian Lucas, The Impact of the Financial Crisis on Conflict and State Fragility in Sub-Saharan Africa July 09 [[http://epapers.bham.ac.uk/643/1/EIRS6.pdf]]

The global financial…across the continent.
====Escalates to great power war==== 
**Glick 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Caroline, 12/12, the senior Middle East fellow at the Center for Security Policy in Washington, D.C., The Center for Security Policy is a non-profit, non-partisan national security organization that specializes in identifying policies, actions, and resource needs that are vital to American security and then ensures that such issues are the subject of both focused, principled examination and effective action by recognized policy experts, appropriate officials, opinion leaders, and the general public, “Condi's African holiday”, [[http://www.centerforsecuritypolicy.org/home.aspx?sid=56&categoryid=56&subcategoryid=90&newsid=11568]])</span>

The Horn of Africa…global powers.

====Scenario 3 is SOUTH CHINA SEAt==== 
====U.S. trade prevents __several__ destabilizing scenarios for allied build-up in the South China Sea that wreck stability==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser, ’12</span> – Senior Fellow, Center for Strategic and International Studies – Bonnie S., “Armed Clash in the South China Sea,” Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), April, [[http://www.cfr.org/east-asia/armed-clash-south-china-sea/p27883]].

Alliance security and regional stability…and potential riches.
====South China Sea conflict goes nuclear==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nikkei, ‘95</span> – [The Nikkei weekly, Developing Asian nations should be allowed a grace period to allow their economies to grow before being subjected to trade liberalization demands, says Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, July 3, 1995, lexis]

Developing Asian nations…even nuclear, war.

====Defer Aff – more than 2 out of 3 of scholars say Asian conflict outweighs==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tierney et al, ‘9</span>. Michael J. Tierney, director of international relations and Weingartner associate professor of government, all at the College of William and Mary. Amy Oakes, an assistant professor of government, Susan Peterson, dean of undergraduate studies and professor of government, and Daniel Maliniak, a Ph.D. student at U.C. San Diego. “Inside the Ivory Tower,” Foreign Policy, March/April, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=4685&print=1]].

Public Enemy No…importance in 20 years.

====INDEPENDNTLY: The PSGP is vital to halting human trafficking==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA, ’11</span> – The American Association of Port Authorities represents about 150 of the leading public port authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean. In addition, the Association represents some 250 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in the seaports of the Western Hemisphere. “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports,” Sept 1, http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since 9/11, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Port Security Grant </span>

Program has received…regional and national economic growth.
====Humantrafficking is slavery and rape – you have an ethical duty to halt it==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lachry, ’10</span> – Mimosa (pseudonym for an online writer), “Think Slavery Is A Thing Of The Past? Think Again,” Quippd – collaboratively edited news, [[http://quippd.com/show/3215/Think_Slavery_Is_A_Thing_Of_The_Past_Think_Again]]

Thousands of people…chicken farms in Delta<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

= = 
=Neg 2NR's= 
==JV state== 
===Vs. HSR twice went for bonds counterplan and immigration=== 
===Vs. NIB went for positive peace===