=Sept Oct= 
==Util Aff== 
[[toc]]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aff: THE STANDARD IS MAXIMIZING LIFE!!!</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impossibility of abiding by a truth verification process means that truth becomes what is good for us to believe. James:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking - William James 1907. Print</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Take, for instance...all that happens.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, we view pain as bad and pleasure as good. Nagel</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[1] Thomas Nagel, The View From Nowhere, HUP, 1986: 156-168.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I shall defend....by any further reasons.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">People hate us because of unfair terrorist treatment. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mora 06 </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alberto J. Former U.S. Navy General Counsel, June 17th, 2008, “Statement of Alberto J. Mora.” Senate Committee on Armed Services Hearing on the Treatment of Detainees in U.S. Custody </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because the international...decreased sharply abroad.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, the EU has specifically stated due. Hossain ’11:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freezing Terrorism Assets: Increasing International Cooperation by Observing Procedural Due Process, Sameer Hossain [J.D. Candidate, 2011, Howard University School of Law. Member, Howard Law Journal], Howard University School of Law Howard Law Journal Winter, 2011, LexisNexis Academic</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TheECJ's [European...the Consolidated List. n107</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The precedent needs to be set soon international interactions concerning sovereignty in terms of jurisdiction are on the rise.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parrish 06 </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Austen L. Sovereignty, Not Due Process: Personal Jurisdiction Over Non-Resident Aliens, 06</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Whether a U.S. court should...ofunique problems.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International law solves existential threats.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IEER 02 and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, 2002 - Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties, May,</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The evolution of...d out of compliance.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DP means no targeted killing since they need to be alive for their trial</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Murphy 10 10 Due Process and Targeted Killing of Terrorists</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This Article stays...executive may kill.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Drone strikes increasing.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bergen, September 5, Drone is Obama’s weapon of choice </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Covert drone strikes...eight years in office.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama has a more general target, meaning he uses more strikes to get who he wants.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bergen</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While Bush sought...between [1000 to 2000]</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We’re hesitant to put troops on the ground, but putting drones out is easier. Means conflict is more likely. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singer 09Singer 2009 [Peter Warren Singer is an American Political Scientist and international relations scholar, he is currently a senior fellow at the Brookings institution, where he is the director of the 21st century Defense Initiative; “Robots at War: The New Battlefield’; Winter 2009;</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> James Der Derian is an...sense of a commitment</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We can put drones in places where we couldn’t put troops.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ingersoll, September 12, Obama Finally Opens Up About the Administration’s Massive Drone War </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama goes on...be, like Pakistan.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shift to drones makes us more involved in the war on terror.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WSN Editorial Board September 11, Drone warfare warranted in modern era </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The shift towards...to American soldiers.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">War controls the internal link into other impact stories. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walzer 77 1977. (Prof. Institute of Advanced Study, Princeton) “Just and Unjust Wars” </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The idea of...toward moral extremity</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of due process in the asset freezing process stops international cooperation and derails counterterrorism procedures. Hossain ’11:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freezing Terrorism Assets: Increasing International Cooperation by Observing Procedural Due Process, Sameer Hossain [J.D. Candidate, 2011, Howard University School of Law. Member, Howard Law Journal], Howard University School of Law Howard Law Journal Winter, 2011, LexisNexis Academic</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TheECJ's....l community to enforce the Consolidated List. n107</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Observing due process in the US is key to international sanctions cooperation, which best solves terrorism. Hossain ’11:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freezing Terrorism Assets: Increasing International Cooperation by Observing Procedural Due Process, Sameer Hossain [J.D. Candidate, 2011, Howard University School of Law. Member, Howard Law Journal], Howard University School of Law Howard Law Journal Winter, 2011, LexisNexis Academic</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Given that the international community is ....success against terrorists worldwide.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International asset freezing can stop terrorism – 5 reasons - Gurule 09</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jimmy Gurule. THE DEMISE OF THE U.N. ECONOMIC SANCTIONS REGIME TO DEPRIVE TERRORISTS OF FUNDING- excerpts from authors book, UNFUNDING TERROR: THE LEGAL RESPONSE TO THE FINANCING OF GLOBAL TERRORISM (2009). Professor of Law, Notre Dame Law School. CASE W. RES. J. INT'L L. [Vol. 41. Pg. 19-63.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The successful implementatione families of homicide bombers."</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Otherwise extinction. Speice ’06:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Patrick Speice [JD Candidate] 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February 2006</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrorist groups could... use of nuclear weapons</span>


==Relativism Aff== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ethical knowledge is based on individual subjective claims, MacIntyre[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] writes: </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The most influentia</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">by adopting them.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deep divisions in moral debate prove the arbitrariness of first principles, Macintyre2:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But that shrillness </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and therefore shrill.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Subjectivity is inherent in expressing moral values, Thomas Nagel[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the pursuit</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">include it all.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if objective values exist, we only have the capacity to perceive the physical, a limitation which prevent us from reaching transcendent morality.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mackie The Subjectivity of Values, http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=-msmrkE-67IC&oi=fnd&pg=PA95&dq=error+theory+mackie&ots=MEXPIPdDcJ&sig=UPbnEXURDm7DczM0olGcLErmo3A#v=onepage&q=error%20theory%20mackie&f=false</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even more important</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">compelled to resort.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And objective consensus about reality can’t exist because physical things cause different perceptions in each of us.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nagel, The Limits of Objectivity, 1979</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">For convenience I s</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the world from.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The last barrier towards reaching objective truth is the verification process.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">James:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking - William James 1907. Print</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Take, for instance, </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">all that happens.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morality arises relative to agreement, Harman[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My moral relativism is </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to an agreement</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The community makes these moral agreements, Dr. Haste[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The 'meaning' of</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">are not shared</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Communal decision-making increases the probability of the beliefs since it aggregates all knowledge, Christiano[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Epistemologically,democracy is</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and unreflective subjects.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moral language is the product of social consensus. Kwame Appiah[[home#_ftn6|[6]]] explains, “You can talk </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">talking to ourselves</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">World Public Opinion Americans Support Full Due-Process Rights For Terrorism Suspects, 06</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Americans, whether Republican </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">methodology, go to </span>

----
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]Alasdair MacIntyre, [[http://www.amazon.com/After-Virtue-Study-Moral-Theory/dp/0268035040/|After Virtue]], pg. 20-21</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]Nagel, Thomas.[an American philosopher, currently University Professor of Philosophy and Law at New York University, where he has taught since 1980.] The View from Nowhere. New York: Oxford UP, 1989. Print.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]] Gilbert Harman [Philosopher at Princeton University specializing in ethics and the philosophy of mind.], “Moral Relativism Defended,” The Philosophical Review 84.1. January 1975.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]Helen Haste, PhD, Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality, 1998 Helen Haste is Reader in Psychology at the University of Bath, England</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]Thomas Christiano. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.Jul 27, 2006. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/democracy/</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]] Appiah, Kwame. Cosmopolitanism: Ethics in a world of Strangers. Pg. 28.</span>

==Util fw 2== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The standard is maximizing life.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Action/Omission</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To let die is to intend death, Mulhnickel:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Robert Luhdvig Muhlnickel, Ph.D, Thesis for University of Rochester 2008 - “Consequentialism and doing and allowing”</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[https://urresearch.rochester.edu/institutionalPublicationPublicView.action?institutionalItemId=4681|urresearch.rochester.edu/institutionalPublicationPublicView.action?institutionalItemId=4681]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quinn intends both … of the one.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Real world –</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Policymaking mandates util. Goodin:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Robert Goodin, fellow in philosophy at Australian National Defense University, 1990. (The Utilitarian Response, ed. Lincoln Allison.) Pg. 142.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Whatever its shortcomings … highly attractive proposition.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Equality. Morality must treat everyone equally to avoid arbitrariness, Singer</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peter Singer, Practical Ethics. Cambridge University Press, 2011.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">From this point … concern to them.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 5. There is no conception of personal identity. Shultz[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Persons, Selves, and Utilitarianism. Bart Schultz. Ethics , Vol. 96, No. 4 (Jul., 1986), pp. 721-745</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Furthermore, since on … sense, be indeterminate.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If personal identity does not matter, we use util. Parfit:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parfit, Derek. “Later Selves and Moral Principles”. Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study (ed. Alan Montefiore). 1973. pp. 157.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Utilitarians might say: … itself no importance.</span>



----
==Politics Advantage== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ought is defined as what causes the most well-being.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Many moral skeptics...truly bound by</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Romney wins now—the best economic study proves. Anas 8/23/12:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Romney will win election, state-by-state study predicts, Brittany Anas, Daily Camera (Boulder, Colo.), 08/23/2012, http://www.mercurynews.com/elections/ci_21382461/romney-will-win-election-state-by-state-study</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">An analysis from</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">election prediction models.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama going hard on terrorism alienates Democrats and destroys his union funding. Navarrette 9/4/12:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ambivalent in Charlotte, Ruben Navarrette, Mercury News, 09/04/2012, http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/ci_21466204/ruben-navarrette-ambivalent-charlotte</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Back...center right away.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama staying hard on Guantanamo breaks his election promise; hurts his voting base. Fox 8/12/12:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Republicans tally Obama's broken promises as November nears, August 12, 2012, FoxNews.com, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/08/12/republicans-tally-obama-failed-campaign-promises-as-november-nears/#ixzz25eHDMkbn </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As the campaign...remain open indefinitely.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Voters are outraged at Obama’s usage of targeted killing, specifically because there’s no due process.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griffing 11, 11, Obama, the Hitman: Killing Due Process</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">One of the many...this new [[http://politics.salon.com/2011/09/30/awlaki_6/|__program__]].</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Subpoint A is Iran Strike</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Romney’s election would start an immediate strike of Iran. Examiner[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] 8/25:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. presidential candidate f...the U.S. Constitution.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Iran strikes trigger multiple instances of nuclear proliferation, leading to extinction. Chossudovsky[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]06 writes that it</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Bush Administration...Russian Federation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Subpoint B. is Space Col</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">100% no colonization from Romney.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor 9/12 Obama, Romney unlikely to share Bush’s space-travel ambitions</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“If I had</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a good idea.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama will fund exploration; MARS rovers and personal statements prove.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wall 8/30 http://news.yahoo.com/obama-says-space-exploration-big-priority-during-reddit-133049279.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"Making sure we s...[[http://www.space.com/16918-nasa-mars-human-spaceflight-goals.html|**manned Mars flight**]]," he added.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If we don’t get off the rock, extinction inevitable</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">FREEMAN 11—major in neuroscience/ minor in philosophy (29 June 2011, “Humanity Should Begin Efforts to Colonize Mars,” [[http://www.debate.org/debates/Humanity-Should-Begin-Efforts-to-Colonize-Mars/1/]], RBatra)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C4: Colonizing Mars helps...of our species</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Further, the tech already exists, no extensive development necessary so it cuts neg timeframe weighing</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zubrin 6/28/2011 – president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.1-2 )DT</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Some have said...story changes, radically.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ten to the thirty-second power human lives perish each second we delay space colonization. Means even if I have a marginal link into the impact, any risk triggers such a huge impact that I still outweigh. Bostrom[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suns are illuminating...lives per second.</span>

----
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Tilford, Robert. The Examiner. “Romney promises the American people war if elected.” August 25, 2012. http://www.examiner.com/article/romney-promises-the-american-people-war-if-elected</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]] Michel Chossudovsky, The Next Phase of the Middle East War, Global Research, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=3147]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]] Nick Bostrom [Oxford U], “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Utilitas, 15.3, 2003</span>



==Sovereignty CP== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Instead of using the U.S. due process system, try the suspects using protections relative to the legal system of their sovereign state. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parrish Austen L. Sovereignty, Not Due Process: Personal Jurisdiction Over Non-Resident Aliens, 06</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A bolder, yet </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">would limit jurisdiction.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Treaty stops U.S. from using jurisdiction in cases where it's not wanted.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parrish 2</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because the jurisdictional </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">constrain U.S. negotiators</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if the agreements in the treaty system are based on fairness, that isn’t due process. Due process is specifically in the context of the U.S. legal system.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parrish 3</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Two explanations for </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the Constitution exists.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Right now the U.S. doesn’t care about sovereignty.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parrish 4</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peculiarly absent from </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">unreasonableness2 of jurisdiction</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Using U.S. court rules to apply to other country’s citizens is an overstep of U.S. boundaries</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parrish 5</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. jurisdictional rules</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of law does</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">When we try to resolve their conflicts, it undercuts their policies.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parrish 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Related to the</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in their courts</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Empirically ruined agreements.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parrish 7</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impact of </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">sense and practicality.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International Law solves existential threats.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IEER and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, 2002 - Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties, May, http://www.ieer.org/reports/treaties/execsumm.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The evolution of</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">out of compliance</span>

==Habermas Aff== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morality arises from social interaction through shared discourse. Haste[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Communitarian[s] thinkers start AND than a person.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Communal discourse is the only accurate epistemology, even if there was another “true” ethic, it can only be understood through interactions or from communal norms. As such, any theory must facilitate inclusion into discourse to be able to accurately derive truth, further proven by the structure of morals itself. Habermas[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]: </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the absence AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in his otherness.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The standard is respecting discursive inclusion.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moral rules by definition bind actors to resolve disagreement and must justify actions to all actors. Habermas[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]] 2 explains:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moral rules[’] operate</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">exercise of influence</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third, my view of morality is most consistent with the linguistic structure of ethics as second-personal. Darwall[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]] furthers:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To justify oneself AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">individuals’ legitimate claims.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, everybody should have due processes regardless of citizenship. People should have the ability to represent themselves. Allan[[home#_ftn5|[5]]] 1:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In a democratic</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">done with one’.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, the existence of due process rights are sufficient- efficacy or ability to access is superfluous since the individual was represented and was able to participate in the decision. Allan 2[[home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The analogy between AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to maintain standing.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, discursive inclusion by definition forces maxims to be justifiable to all, inclusion must allow for hearing of concerns. Apel[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It belongs to AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">all affected persons.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third, discursive inclusion mandates consideration and recognition of international norms. Demenchonok[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As discourse ethics</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the intemational community.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This view leads to same treatment for two reasons. A) It requires giving equal weight to those of other countries in the conceptual sense. It blocks us from viewing ourselves as a nation, and giving only ourselves rights. Archibugi[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Recognition of the value of individual life. The cosmopolitan perspective sets out from the</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">lives of others.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B) Current manifestation of international norms mandates due process. The UN[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the Global Counter-Terrorism</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to be fair.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Also, any speaker concedes the authority of the framework. Allen:[“DISCOURSE, POWER, AND SUBJECTIVATION:THE FOUCAULT/HABERMAS DEBATE RECONSIDERED.” AMY ALLEN. 2009. Philosophical Forum¶ Dartmouth College¶ http://www.scribd.com/doc/86981918/Discourse-Power-And-Subjectivation]</span>

----
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Helen Haste, [PhD of Psychology at the University of Bath], “Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality”, 1998.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]] Jurgen Habermas, The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory, 1998 MIT Press. p. 40</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]Jurgen Habermas, The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory, 1998 MIT Press p. 4</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]] Stephen Darwall, “Contractualism, Root, and Branch: A Review Essay”, [[http://www.yale.edu/darwall/contractualism.pdf]] Blackwell: Philosophy & Public Affairs 34:2 p. 204</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]] Allan, T.R.S. Procedural Fairness and the Duty of Respect. Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 18, No. 3 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 497-515. Oxford University Press. Accessed JSTOR. <[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/764676]]>. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]] Allan, T.R.S. Procedural Fairness and the Duty of Respect. Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 18, No. 3 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 497-515. Oxford University Press. Accessed JSTOR. <[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/764676]]>.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]] Apel, Karl-Otto, Discourse Ethics, Democracy, and International Law: Toward a Globalization of Practical Reason. American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Vol. 66, No. 1, pp. 49-70, January 2007.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]] Demenchonok, Edward. (2005) “Discourse ethics and international law,” Dialogue and Universalism,// 11-12: 57-84.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]] Daniele Archibugi, ‘Terrorism and Cosmopolitanism’, SSRC Working Paper (2001), http://www.ssrc.org/sept11/essays/archibugi_text_only.htm.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]] United Nations Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force, “Right to Fair Trial.” n.d. http://www.un.org/en/terrorism/ctitf/proj_righttotrial.shtml</span>


==State of Nature NC== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Human nature can be explained in terms of science, which leads to self-interest.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friend, Celeste Friend, Hamilton College, 2004, The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hobbes’ political theory </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">allowed to die).</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This leads to an irreconcilable problem in ethics; your theory might sound good in the abstract, but real world limitations prevent it from being implemented.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friend 2 explains how we can reconcile our judgments and desires </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">According to Hobbes...State of Nature.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I contend that terrorists have renounced any contractual rights that they might have had, and the contractual agreement of due process is not in the context of international affairs. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jordan, Evening Tribune, 12</span>


==Bostrum Fw== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As long as we’re ethically uncertain, extinction comes first to preserve deliberation over what’s good and bad. Bostrom:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">These reflections on moral uncertainty suggest[s] an alternative, complementary way of</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to increase the probability that the future will contain a lot of value.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the standard is minimizing existential risk. Further prefer the standard since:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.Governments never omit to act while standing by. They choose to authorize action. Sunstein and Vermuele write:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17. University of Chicago Law Professor explains,</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In our view, any effort to distinguish between acts and omissions goes wrong by</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">action, it is not omitting to do anything or refusing to act.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Without an act-omission distinction, all side-constraints devolve into util since if the rule is going to be violated on both sides, there's no other option but to aggregate. Extinction comes first as it’s the end of all pleasure and experience and would cause massive suffering in the process.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Uncertainty is inherent in deciding under ethical theories. This means existential risks come first under non-consequentialist frameworks as long as there’s a non-zero risk util is true. Bostrom 2:</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“There will be [for] some types of putative existential risks for which...X is bad in at least the subjective sense relevant to decision making.”</span>




=Nov Dec= 
==Util Aff== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Framework is same as the util frameworks for sept-oct.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 1 is Bioterror</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A bioterrorist attack is coming now and we aren’t prepared. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Threat of Bioterrorism, Senator Bob Graham, D-FL; Senator Jim Talent, R-MO, Disaster Medicine and Public Health Preparedness, VOL. 5/ SUPPL. 2, July 5, 2011, American Medical Association</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">During its tenure...the biotechnology revolution.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Universal healthcare is key to preventing and treating a bioterrorist attack. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shane Green, PhD, May 2004, “Bioterrorism and Health Care Reform: No Preparedness Without.” [[@http://virtualmentor.ama-assn.org/2004/05/pfor2-0405.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US learned ...reaching peak infectivity</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Otherwise, extinction. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Richard Ochs, president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,”[[@http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of all the...slippery is this slope?</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 2 is Economy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The fiscal cliff is imminent—economic collapse begins January 1 without reform. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pottorff 10/23:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"Fiscal cliff threat to dominate lame-duck session," Rich Pottorff, Doane chief economist & Washington analyst, October 23, 2012,[[@http://www.agprofessional.com/news/DC-Watch-Fiscal-cliff-to-dominate-lame-duck-session-175271241.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In just a...nutrition program provisions.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Universal Healthcare is key to sustaining U.S. small businesses, which are key to the economy. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Embry 11 A Universal Health Care Option Is Good for Small Business and US Global Competition By Dennis Embry [Small business owner, columnist] on February 27, 2011,[[@http://www.nurturingenvironments.org/2011/02/27/a-universal-health-care-option-is-good-for-small-business-and-us-global-competition/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The best thing...to their citizens.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Small businesses key. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sba. Gov 10 INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE ON FEDERAL CONTRACTING OPPORTUNITIES FOR SMALL BUSINESSES</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Small businesses are...economy lose out.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Saves money because companies don’t have to ensure work benefits and solves job lock.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mohit, Behzad, 09 Universal Health Care Can Save Our Economy and Keep 1.7 million Jobs in the U.S.: Part III</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Now let's extrapolate...their health care.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic collapse results in global nuclear war and likely, extinction, multiple warrants. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schenfeld 08:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Aaron Friedberg-professor of politics and international relations at the Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel Schoenfeld-visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute, 10/21/2008, The Dangers of a Diminished America, The Wall Street Journal, p. HYPERLINK "[[@http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]"[[@http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Then there are...and geopolitical power.¶</span>

==Relativism Aff== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Framework is the same as for AC 3 on Sept Oct</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A majority believes the government should guarantee coverage.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sack and Connelly 09, In Poll, Wide Support for Government-Run Health</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But [polls]clearly... they were opposed.¶</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Same thing for health insurance. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roberts10 Poll: The Politics of Health Care</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nine out of...care costsdown.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Doctors agree; a public option is necessary. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro, 09, Poll Finds Most Doctors Support Public Option</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The researchers say...favors health reform.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And they mean universal coverage.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It's hard to...favors health reform.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lastly, the public wants to overhaul the current system. They think its insufficient.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ingram</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ingram, David. “Poll: Idea of healthcare overhaul gets wide support.” Reuters. March 28, 2012. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">An overhaul of...of 65 percent.</span>

==Natives K== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forced inclusion of Native Americans in social services uproot native traditions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jarrett Two Thousand, Professor Graduate Social Work Program, Alabama A&M University, 2000</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Alfred Abioseh, The Impact of Macro Social System on Ethnic Minorities in the United States, p. 258).</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Polices of the ...means of survival</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This means paternalism. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prucha 86 Emeritus Professor of History, Marquette University, 1986</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Francis, The Great Father: The United States Government and the American Indians, p. 400)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">When the trust...in pervasive form</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And legislation that just lumps the Native Americans in with everyone else causes the problem.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Larson, member of the Gros Ventre tribe and director of American Indian Studies at Idaho State University, 2005</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Sidner J., “Making Sense of Federal Indian Law”, Wicazo Sa Review, Spring, 20.1: 9-21. EKC)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">At the same time...seem very positive.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Results in genocide and extinction; loss of cultural biodiversity is the warrant.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg Two Thousand, PhD Candidate, Germanic Studies, University of Illinois, 2000</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Lilian, “Dare to Compare,” American Indian Quarterly; Summer, Vol. 24 Issue 3, p. 353)</span>



==<span style="color: #262626;">Autonomy NC </span>== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My criterion is preserving autonomy. Kamm Frances Myrna Kamm, 2007, Intricate Ethics: Rights, Responsibilities, and Permissible Harms explains</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The value already...rights of others.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, only negative rights, or side constraints, respect person’s entitlements, since positive rights require aggregative sacrifice, disrespecting their individual worth. Nozick, Robert. Anarchy, State, and Utopia. New York: Basic Books, 1974. Print. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Side constraints express...state or government.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Health care places tax burdens people aren’t entitled to. Pimentel: [Richard, “Rights and the Health Care Debate: Part IV.” Philosophy News. http://www.philosophynews.com/page/Rights-and-the-Health-Care-Debate-Part-IV.aspx]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">These contrasts provide...rights talk today.</span>


=Jan Feb= 
==Restorative Justice AC== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Framework is same as util frameworks for Sept-Oct</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The status quo criminal justice system closes all avenues of repair and neglects the voices of the parties involved.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Erica A. Frederiksen in 08</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Punishment and Political Community: Restorative Justice and the Project of Criminal Justice Reform</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ph.D. Candidate - Department of Political Science, University of Toronto August 28-31, 2008.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In its present...rest of society.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Restorative justice provides a moral education to the offender and victim, which is key to solving future crime. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garvey 03 Stephen P, Law Prof @ Cornell, “Restorative Justice, Punishment & Atonement” Utah LR, 03, [[@http://privateweb.law.utah.edu/_webfiles/academic/journals/utahlawreview/2003_1/09Garvey.pdf|privateweb.law.utah.edu/_webfiles/academic/journals/utahlawreview/2003_1/09Garvey.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My claim here...member in good standing.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, empirics prove. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baltimore Sun on December 16, 2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“A prescription for juvenile justice Instead of focusing on the failings of our youth detention centers, invest in proven preventive measures”</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[@http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/opinion/oped/bs-ed-djs-20101216,0,2911097.story]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Among the successful...to real opportunities.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meta-analysis confirms.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Latimer 01</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jeff Latimer, Craig Dowden, Danielle Muise. “The Effectiveness of Restorative Justice Practices: A Meta-Analysis.” Department of Justice Canada – Research and Stats Division. 2001.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The overall mean...more satisfied (t (12) = 3.89, p < 0.01).</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Restoration solidifies communal norms against crime and promotes cohesion</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frederiksen2</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[We] Christie sees...these crucial opportunities</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Restorative justice can enable political reform that makes existing laws clearer and new laws out of communal norms so both will be followed</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frederiksen3</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Restorative justice processes]...be easily followed.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I account for moral disagreement</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barrett</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Audrey Laurel Barrett, “The Works of Jürgen Habermas: A Tool for Further Understanding the Theory and Practice of Restorative Justice.” Dalhousie University Halifax, Nova Scotia. December 2011.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because the restorative...reason through discourse.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The costs of crime in the US is over a trillion dollars</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anderson "The Aggregate Burden of Crime" UChicago Journal of Law and Economics 42.2 - [[@http://ideas.repec.org/a/ucp/jlawec/v42y1999i2p611-42.html|ideas.repec.org/a/ucp/jlawec/v42y1999i2p611-42.html]] - 10-20-2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"This study estimates...exceed $1 trillion.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Growth solves all major problems</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Silk, Leonard. Prof. of Econ @ Pace University. Foreign Affairs Vol. 72, No. 1, America and the World 1992/93 (1992/1993), Published by Council on Foreign Relations - [[@http://jstor.org/stable/20045504|jstor.org/stable/20045504]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic hardship is ...and open economies and societies.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US is behind; nations worldwide have endorsed restorative justice.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Umbreit et al. 06, Mark S. et al, Ph. D, Marquette, RESTORATIVE JUSTICE IN THE TWENTYFIRST CENTURY: A SOCIAL MOVEMENT, FULL OF OPPORTUNITIES AND PITFALLS, [[@http://utexas.edu/law/centers/cppdr/portfolio/Marquette%20Law%20Review%20article1.pdf|utexas.edu/law/centers/cppdr/portfolio/Marquette%20Law%20Review%20article1.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Restorative justice is...their respective acronyms]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International Law solves existential threats.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IEER 02 and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, 2002 - Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties, May, [[@http://www.ieer.org/reports/treaties/execsumm.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The evolution of...out of compliance.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Restorative justice makes the citizens’ voices count in law and justice, Frederiksen5</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[S]uch inclusion [of...of the courtroom.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Restorative justice encourages democratic involvement of citizens in politics, Frederiksen6</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Restorative mechanisms present...becoming deliberatively democratic.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of democracy leads to existential threats. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carnegie Institute 95(The Carnegie Corporation of New York is dedicated to democracy. “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s” October 1995. http://www.carnegie.org//sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts...can be built.</span>

==Util Aff== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Framework is the same as util frameworks for Sept-Oct</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Recidivism</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Recidivism has declined state-wide in 7 states due to programs that teach offenders about societal re-entry. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reddy, 7/25/12, ENCOURAGING NEW CSG REPORT ON DECLINING RECIDIVISM IN 7 STATES http://www.rightoncrime.com/2012/09/encouraging-new-csg-report-on-declining-recidivism-in-7-states/</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This morning, the...they return home.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norway has extremely low murder rates and drastically low recidivism rates despite its rehabilitative approach. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jilani, Zaid, 11, [[http://thinkprogress.org/justice/2011/07/25/277771/norway-is-safe/|As The Right Bemoans Norway’s Criminal Justice System, It Is]]One Of The Safest Countries On Earth</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Many right wingers...re-arrested and [[http://www.infoplease.com/ipa/A0933722.html|52 percent]] are re-incarcerated.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It’s not just in Norway, it worked in countries all throughout Europe, prefer my meta-analysis. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Santiago RedondoIllescas*, Julio Sánchez-Meca** and Vicente Garrido Genovés*** Treatment of Offenders and Recidivism: Assessment of the Effectiveness of Programmes Applied in Europe, 2001 http://www.psychologyinspain.com/content/reprints/2001/6.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This line of...programmes was 5,715 (see Table 4).¶</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And crime costs over a trillion dollars.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anderson "The Aggregate Burden of Crime" UChicago Journal of Law and Economics 42.2 - [[http://ideas.repec.org/a/ucp/jlawec/v42y1999i2p611-42.html|ideas.repec.org/a/ucp/jlawec/v42y1999i2p611-42.html]] - 10-20-2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"This study estimates...the University of Chicago."</span>

==Relativism Aff== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Framework is same as Relativism Aff for Sept-Oct</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Polls heavily conclude aff. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krisberg, Barry PhD Susan MarchionnaAttitudes of US Voters toward Prisoner Rehabilitation and Reentry Policies 06</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of those polled...expressed strong support.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hart Research Associates continues Changing Public Attitudes toward the Criminal Justice System, 02</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Americans strongly favor...to 21% margin.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hart Research Associates 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A question first...causes of crime. </span>
==Fiscal Cliff Neg== 
Fiscal cliff passes now; failure of plan B injects urgency into legislators. Klein 12/21,
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rick, ABC News Just In Time For Christmas — Fiscal Cliff Chaos (The Note), http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/12/just-in-time-for-christmas-fiscal-cliff-chaos-the-note/</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Last night’s debacle...legacy of 2012.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If there’s one thing that will incense House Republicans it’s eliminating capital punishment. The general public supports death penalty, even those informed about its inefficacy. Republicans have even greater support.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Liz Halloran, 11, Death Penalty Retains Support, Even With Pro-Life Catholics, Despite Flaws</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"Sixty-four percent...has remained consistent.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The speaker of the House, John Boehner, would be outraged. He’s voted for so many laws in favor of retributivism and the death penalty it’s not even funny.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">From John Boehner’s voting track record: [[http://www.ontheissues.org/OH/John_Boehner.htm]] Ontheissues.com</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Voted NO on...penalty. (Sep 1994).</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And the Republican platform conceded they want the death penalty.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Republican National Platform 2012 http://www.gop.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/2012GOPPlatform.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Liberals do not...capital murder cases.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Means economic collapse. Walsh et al. 12/21:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama outlines fiscal cliff-deficit deal in stages, By Deirdre Walsh, Dana Bash and Tom Cohen, CNN, 7:37 PM EST, Fri December 21, 2012, http://www.cnn.com/2012/12/21/politics/fiscal-cliff/index.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The main issue...emerge from recession.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic collapse results in global nuclear war and likely, extinction. Friedberg and Schenfeld 08:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Aaron Friedberg-professor of politics and international relations at the Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel Schoenfeld-visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute, 10/21/2008, The Dangers of a Diminished America, The Wall Street Journal, p. HYPERLINK "http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj" http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Then there are...and geopolitical power.</span>

==Fiscal Cliff 2.0== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We didn’t fix the cliff, we just delayed the most important decisions for later. A new agreement will have to be reached in two months. Bennett 1/2/13 What the Fiscal Cliff Deal Didn’t Solve, http://www.theatlanticwire.com/politics/2013/01/what-fiscal-cliff-deal-didnt-solve/60482/</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2013/01/01/fact-sheet-tax-agreement-victory-middle-class-families-and-economy|let's look at what they did do]]...the perfect way.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It’s worse this time. We reach the debt ceiling in March, magnifying the impact of any blow to the economy. Obama is not willing to negotiate on the debt ceiling. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davis 1/2/13, Susan, David Jackson, Richard Wolf, and Susan Page4 Lessons for Round 2 of Fiscal Cliff Fight, USA Today </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Also ahead: Funding to...just never ends."</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If there’s one thing that will incense House Republicans it’s eliminating capital punishment. The general public supports death penalty, even those informed about its inefficacy. Republicans have even greater support.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Liz Halloran, 11, Death Penalty Retains Support, Even With Pro-Life Catholics, Despite Flaws</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"Sixty-four percent...has remained consistent.</span>





<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The speaker of the House, John Boehner, would be outraged. He’s voted for so many laws in favor of retributivism and the death penalty it’s not even funny.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">From John Boehner’s voting track record: [[http://www.ontheissues.org/OH/John_Boehner.htm]] Ontheissues.com</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Voted NO on...penalty. (Sep 1994).</span>







<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And the Republican platform conceded they want the death penalty.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Republican National Platform 2012 http://www.gop.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/2012GOPPlatform.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Liberals do not...capital murder cases.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic collapse results in global nuclear war and likely, extinction. Friedberg and Schenfeld 08:</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Aaron Friedberg-professor of politics and international relations at the Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel Schoenfeld-visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute, 10/21/2008, The Dangers of a Diminished America, The Wall Street Journal, p. HYPERLINK "http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj" http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Then there are...and geopolitical power.</span>



====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;"> </span>==== 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Law Neg</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">All ethical knowledge is at some point uncertain. MACINTYRE, After Virtue, p 20-21</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The most influential....by adopting them.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">These individual agreements are reconciled in a community. Dr. Haste, </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Helen Haste, PhD, Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality, 1998 Helen Haste is Reader in Psychology at the University of Bath, England</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The 'meaning' of...are not shared</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Communal decision-making increases the probability of the beliefs since it aggregates all knowledge, Christiano</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thomas Christiano. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.Jul 27, 2006. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/democracy/</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Epistemologically,democracy is...and unreflective subjects.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And laws are the only way to define our moral views, or else it becomes impossible to define which one has been accepted.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mihilzer JUSTIFICATION AND EXCUSE: WHAT THEY WERE, WHAT THEY ARE, AND WHAT THEY OUGHT TO BE, 2004</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because justification and...the law prohibits it.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And because law is not natural, it is forced to be a communal expression. Green, Positivism and the Inseparability of Law and Morals, 2008 </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> To understand the...law turns up.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the standard is consistency with current U.S. Law.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current law mandates retributivism. U.S. is harsh </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tyjen Tsai and Paola Scommegna, US has world’s highest incarceration rate, 2012 U.S. Has World's Highest Incarceration </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Since 2002, the...Justice Statistics (BJS).</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. is way more retributive than other systems.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">James Q. Whitman, 2004, A Plea Against Retributivism</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As we all...the American climate.!</span>

==Deontology NC== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I value morality. Moral theories can’t be based in experience. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wittgenstein:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ludwig Wittgenstein (Cambridge University), “Wittgenstein’s lecture on ethics,” The Philosophical Review, 74.1, January 1965</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Now what I...such a judgment.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We each experience our own reality – there is no reconciliation of it. Frank: </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.npr.org/blogs/13.7/2011/07/26/138695074/where-is-now-the-paradox-of-the-present|Where Is Now? The Paradox Of The Present]] - NPR July 26, 2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.npr.org/blogs/13.7/2011/07/26/138695074/where-is-now-the-paradox-of-the-present?sc=fb&cc=fp]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[E]very aspect of...world you inhabit.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And prefer universal, apriori knowledge because other systems can't generate consistent moral rules. Velleman Self-to-Self: Selected Essays, 06</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Why can't reasons...of having one.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I contend only retribution is universizable. Fleischacker:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Samuel Fleischacker, “Kant’s Theory of Punishment,” Kant-Studien 79, no. 4 (1988), p. 442</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I suggest that...to acknowledge them.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And retribution treats offenders as rational ends. Reiman writes: </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=M6MkIO3VXN0C&pg=PA235&lpg=PA235&dq=jeffrey+reiman+retributive+justice&source=bl&ots=2CFL_a1n0T&sig=iTcYb2GWBTpsf7R0mgId0qNmCoE&hl=en&ei=biWSTumIOsTmiALX7JzNCA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAg|Critical moral liberalism: theory and practice - Google Books Result]][[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=895&bih=561&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jeffrey+H.+Reiman%22&ei=biWSTumIOsTmiALX7JzNCA&ved=0CDUQ9Ag|Jeffrey H. Reiman]], 1997</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Since reason (like...within their rights.</span>